ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move to the timelines for today's Questions, let me first announce the issue of Monday's Question Time of 1 March 2021: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 446/17-2-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary I Athens, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Prevention, upgrading and undermining of electricity networks in Greece". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 466/22-2-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Kosokalis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Delay and severe vaccination dysfunctions in Regional Unity (PT) Larissa". 3. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Fully unprotected and apart from any governmental provision of food - tourism workers". 4. The Question No 465/22-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Resumption of student clinical practice in the medical schools of the country". 5. The question by No 445/16-2-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of State, Mr. Vassiliardou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Extractive and inadequate compensation for the bad weather "Janus"". 6. The question by number 447/18-2-2021 that was raised by MP I of Athens, Mera25, Angeliki Adamopoulos, to the Minister of Finance, on "Concentration aid measures". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 453/19-2-2021 of the Second Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Lesbos of the New Democracy, Charalambos Athanasiou, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Questions that arise in the Lesvos Law and not just from the suspension of forest maps". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 468/22-2-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Problems in the educational structures at the Special Adventure Reservation. 3. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "We need the government's care to protect all workers in tourism and food." 4. The question by number 467/22-2-2021 is a timely question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "The immediate and full compensation for the floods and the restoration of damages in the areas of the Municipality of Hersonissos Heraklion Crete". 5. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kleonas Gregoriadis to the Minister of Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Request for residents of Lesvos to host refugees and immigrants". 6. The Question No 469/22-2-2021 by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: “Backing in black times”. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 458/22-2-2021 topical question by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "An explanation of the omission of the use of volunteer fire extinguishers." 8. Or by number 460/22-2. -2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Refusal to grant a tourist kiosk to the Municipality of Haidari". 9. The question by No 470/22-2-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "There is no vaccination planning in Magnesia". 10. The 459/22-2-2021 topical question by MP Larissa of the Change Movement, Evangelia Lykoulis, to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: “The Dance” of direct awards by local government agencies (OTAs), elephant COVID, peaks”. 11. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Kritonas Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The Board of Directors of the Hellenic Recycling Agency (EOAN) is in favour of the "Recycling Recycling" against the scientific recommendation of the Hellenic Recycling Agency (EOAN)". 12. The question by number 471/22-2-2021 by MP Fthiotidas of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Liberated policing in the Municipality of Lokras and Amphiklia of the Regional Unity (P.E.) Fthiotidas". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under No 464/22 2 2021 a timely question from the Member of the Elijah Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Will the guarantors remain hostage even if the debtors repay their loans or liquidate their assets?" 14. Observed. The question by No 463/22 2 2021 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct need for permanent appointments of school nurses". 15. The question by number 472/22 2 2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nicholaos Syrmalenios to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on the subject: "Will the lifting of the “SEA DIAMOND” temple finally be launched? 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions Question No 477/22-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "To solve the problems arising from the suspension of forest maps". 17. Under No 473/22 2 2021, a topical question by SYRIZA's MP Achaias - Progressive Alliance Mr. Athanasias (Syria) Anagnostopoulou to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "The oppressive developments surrounding the case of the Artistic Director of the National Theatre and the effort to disorientate and cover up by the Government." 18. Under number 474/22-2-2021, a timely question by MP I of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on “Who commands schools? The Ministry of Education or Racism and intolerance;’. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 2956/28.12.20, by MP II Piraeus of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Tryphona Alexiades to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "Great the suffering of long waiting times that are experiencing in the weather, unprotected in the outdoors of banks, savings banks, telephony companies". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingaros Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Following the one-off provision of hotel staff by lifting the injustice committed by SYRIZA against them". 3. The question and application under number 3138/440/11 1 2021 by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Home Affairs, on "Financing Municipal Operations for Water and sewerage (JHA) to implement projects in the critical water sector to ensure access to adequate and good quality water for human consumption". 4. The question by number 2971/29-12-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "One of them cut off the CSCE and the other free drugs to the micro-retired." 5. The question and application under number 2991/428/30 12 2020 by MP B' West Attica - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Special attention to strengthening and reducing operations, professionals and scientists in Western Attica after the universal lockdown. Just 3% of the firms in the region have been strengthened by the Guarantee Fund and the entrepreneurship fund (TEIFI) 2 to date." Ladies and gentlemen, we shall now proceed to the debate on today's topical and urgent debate. In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the current questions. It is well known, the ministers and the honourable Members know it. So we begin with our second question under number 451/19-2-2021, first-round question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas, with the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "In cold murder of the sellers of popular markets." The Minister for Development and Investment will answer Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Booba, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u3	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. Good morning, Minister. There is a turbulence and a turmoil in the field of small shops in the people's markets and a lot of questions arise and a great concern, because the professional and social fabric is also disturbed. In all processing you do, open the way to private individuals. There is a PPP, a public-private partnership. But, here there is a risk, because on the basis of the draft law which has not been asked, such as their complaint, the federations and trade unions of small sellers, there will be an auction with regard to the positions of the people's market. So the sitter realizes that he, who will have to pay and get to the best, in one perimeter position, will displace a farmer in a popular market who has been there for several years. In fact, you know very well that many businesses are family-friendly. In other words, it helps the whole family to cope with this difficult partition. Because you also have other parameters which concern them in terms of moleculosis. For example, it says the draft law, as I have read, based on all this advancement, that the person with a degree, who is a university graduate, will be mobilized up to 20 molecules. On the contrary, the one who's in high school five molecules. If one wants a university degree in diagnosing or dissipating, in order to sell two underwear, two socks and two pants, you realize that that is where the social tissue and the acquired so many years are disturbed. Also, there's the question of whether there's a violation by a small seller. Of course, there must be no infringements, there must be no unlawful action. The law must be implemented. If he makes an appeal for criminal or judicial action, he will have to wait until his case is resolved. It can go in a long time, even five years, and it will not be able to perform its professional duties on the people's markets. The question is: First, if private individuals come into the people's markets, the nature of the people's markets will be lost. Who is it? Promoting some products from producers, mainly producers. A new term is now introduced, the term 'non-producer of the popular market'. What does that mean? The ‘non-producer’ is at risk, it is a variant. That is to say, it cannot - and it is these days - create such antibodies in the people's market that will bring action and resilience and, above all, a reaction from people of hard work. The cut is very difficult for the people. The point is that the character and nature of the people's market will be lost. The people's market is an important social fabric. It is the "university of the sidewalk" or, if you like, it is the Greek Parliament because it has another character. If there should be well-being, an orderly situation, an organization within the people's markets, we would be happy to discuss it. Unfortunately, there are people's markets in capital prefectures that do not exist in toilets. That's a truth. But putting us inside private individuals, opening 'kernels', opening 'tracks', getting private interests inside and being able to become an outdoor shopping centre the popular market, while having another character, another nature and another aura toward the people, you realize that these people are reasonably concerned about their future. Because the purpose is to help nonhazardous trade. In people who are unemployed, who cannot practice a profession, we can give this possibility through the region to obtain a licence to sell their products. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Buba. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Colleague, I want to be very honest. If you were not the one who was extremely sympathetic to me, and because you are one of the nice Serres, but also because I have followed your word a little, and it is patriotic and I like it, and there was another colleague who asked me this question, I would be very hard. But I will only try to answer you in good faith because of this great sympathy. You have asked me a question: 'In cold-blooded murder of people's market sellers'. Could you please testify for the record a lot in your dentext, please, this supposed draft law to see it too? Because such a draft law has not been drafted. There's no one at all. What's happened? The General Secretariat of Consumers writes various drafts for the forthcoming reform of the institutional landscape of the people's markets and their thoughts on how the public market could generally be upgraded. Tens of different proposals have been written so far. When we end up somewhere with which I agree - as the legislative initiative, so that I do not seem to speak arrogantly - and I have something to say on the people's markets 'that', obviously, institutional dialogue with them will begin. After all, I think as Minister I have shown that I am probably the most popular-friendly of the Greek state to date. All the announcements from the federations of the people's markets, whether producers or traders, have thanked me so far, have made me headlines in the newspapers, I have been put out on their television shows to say congratulations to me because people's markets have been open in the middle of Lockdown. And you need to know, if you don't know, they stayed open and why the Greek Minister for Development and Investment, who fought for it, wanted it. To have kept the people's markets open in the middle of Lockdown, to have sent me dozens of congratulating letters, to have made television broadcasts, to have me sent flowers to my office at the same time to be the cold killer of the people's markets for a draft law, which does not exist, this is beyond any previous one. And I'll tell you, to close my prototype, a scene last night. Several presidents of federations of popular markets have come to my office and from Thessaloniki, you may know him, my friend Vassilis Makridis and from Athens Mr. Moschos and many others, six - seven the number. They went in about your own style. I was with Mr. Stubulides the Secretary-General. They started talking about what you say. We heard them and told them about what we really think. I won't say any details, I don't want to put them in a difficult position. They said to each other at some point: 'Why are we yelling so long?' I say: 'How much do I know'? And then they made an announcement that the meeting was going very well and the Minister took it back. I didn't get anything because I didn't give anything to get it back. Details I'll then say in my dentistry. So there are no moods to either destroy the people's markets nor have we ever said that you have to have two doctorates to sell shirts, as you have said. Although it is a very good thing for people to study and raise their education. I don't underestimate it. But there is not this prerequisite for people's markets. As to the notorious issue of auctioning, I'll explain it to you in my dentistry. When we explained it to the federations' presidents, they were swinging their heads and saying, "What's the trouble?" In any case, in order to have a nice parliamentary dialogue, you guys put in the record the so-called draft law that came out without dialogue and consultation and which has left them out of discussion, to see when I tabled a draft law and when I left them out of dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Booba, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u7	Sympathy is mutual because we were at another political time together. And in the teleshopping we were together. We therefore have a sympathy and a breeze for teleshopping at Telesty. Now, as far as cold is concerned, to make a pun, it can go to weather conditions. In cold blood they set the benches, warmly setting the benches, night - day. But when this draft law says it's a draft, I accept it. The better heals. So we are preparing something to heal where there is a problem. But when it sounds like there's going to be a people's market manager and the private person enters, even 5%, into the large popular markets, something is cooking here. If it's cooking, let's see Chelemede. Because it is not possible for the private person to enter, to give more and to leave at the corner, Minister. So this is a reasonable question. Since the days of the coronary are, the people's markets are working as a detonation. They have a displacement. There's a ritual for the housewife to go to the popular market and there's right. There and the complaints will be heard and debated, and sad feelings will be made. Thus, the popular market has been operating up to a social phenomenon since 1929 in Eleftherios Venizelos. So there is the question. They say the feds, the unions and the small sellers. Are the others going in, why would they give most of the money, or will the graduate be mobilized? The job is not a shame, but you can't afford the skilled scientist to donate him with 20 euros and the graduate of high school or high school with 5 euros. All this is in the process. I'll take it. If, however, some of them are implemented and introduced, the term 'non-producer' is established elsewhere, the work goes. You are well aware that, as representatives and not as representatives of social groups, we are obliged to talk about 'cold murder', if all this is done. Now you tell him that he should have a starting price, get on a digital platform, talk about the quantity of the product before he even sets up the bench. It is not the big problem in the people's markets that the small seller runs with a laptop in the digital age we live to give the starting price. If the product is indisposed, you know very well what the law of the people's market or the bargain is. I don't like that term, but that's how we're used to it. A quantity may be left unstoppable or prices fall in the middle because the other one says "shoulder, we didn't make chefs, I can pack them up." If there are any infractions, we'll see. And the fines must be slapful for all the three evidence you're saying. Insurance and tax contributions. To bring them up - and people bring them - but if we put them in more, and have paid the management body, and if he is delayed by the management body, as the draft says, he will not be able to enter the folk if he does not spend any more, it is things that worry about the small sellers and the backbone. Why do you know something? And it sounds like something's gonna happen to you. Let's get to it. To consult, to hold dialogue, to put forward arguments, and where a people's market is concerned, to look at it. In Italy, in Campania, it is the area with most popular markets. In Germany, local gastronomy is protected. In France there are also tax exemptions of 2.31% in family income obligations of less than EUR 43 000. Shouldn't we support this social group here? I don't confront, you're sensitive, you'll support her. You must support the social fabric that currently absorbs vibrations in society. The people's market which the delal has to sell will also make a fine match to sell it. They're poets, they're philosophers too, they're politicians. Everything sounds in a popular market. It's the festival, with the good character of the people. It's the city's outdoor church. She needs you to support. The outdoor meeting and Church of the Municipality. Because people are a living cell social mechanism, where there is a professional orgasm and a social consensus. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u9	Mr. colleague, Mr. Bubas, the way I saw you with the entire Greek Parliamentary Group back, with prehistory in teleshopping and having coexisted in a previous time, I thought you succeeded Kyriakos Velopoulos in the leadership of the Greek Solution. I wish you so. It's good for someone to move on in life. So I come now to this debate. Firstly, there is no draft law. That's why you couldn't testify. We won't forbid the services to think. Preliminary draft, draft, legal dialogue platform, there is when I say it. I have the legislative initiative. If I do not give a text and say that we are talking about it, there is nothing. To talk to each other about the services, they talk every day. They're good. To make a fuss because they dared to discuss the matter with each other, I have never lived in this House before. I've never heard of it. I repeat, so that you do not worry, when we get to legislate - because we will legislate on the new framework of the people's markets, indeed - we will be coming to Parliament and we will have completely exhausted the dialogue with the people's market operators. And when they come to the committee, they'll tell you how many times, we're tired of talking. I already see them, I'm telling you, all the time. I have great respect for the people's markets. The first job I have done in my life, Mr President, was at 15 years of age at the Kifissias Book Fair. I had a book counter. It's kind of a popular market. So, no, I'm not underestimating this profession, I'm honoring this profession. I've been doing it myself. But be careful. Let us just say that we are honoring this and pretending that everything is going well on in the people's markets. You are telling me, for example, that France gives tax exemptions to the people's markets for incomes above EUR 43 000. Very good. Do you want me to tell you what I've lived for? A few weeks ago in my office President of the Provincial Town Market - I do not want to say what, because I do not want to expose the man - he says to me: 'Mr. Minister, you need to make an exceptional allowance for the people's markets because in the crisis, 50-50, where we had the lockdowns and so on.' I'm saying, what extraordinary allowance? Since they are freelance professionals enter the returnable deposit, they put the turnover of last year, they put the turnover of this year's year, the algorithm sees the reduction of the turnover on the platform and comes in March and we give them money depending on the reduction of the turnover they suffered because of the lockdowns, 50-50 etc. So they get an allowance through the repayable advance, which half is non-refundable. Answer: No way. I'm saying, why? But we don't cut evidence, they tell me. And I say: Excuse me, do you come as President of the People's Markets to the Minister for Development officially and say you are not cutting evidence? Yes, he's telling me. If you don't cut evidence, you have a problem. How are you gonna get a tax exemption on a branch that doesn't cut evidence? You tell me. And, of course, that does not characterise all the people's markets. To God! I do not recognize them all, that they are not all cutting off evidence, but I say that we need to understand a little that people's markets have their own problems. So discussing, for example, that we have devalued digitisation is, in my opinion, very unfair to the people's markets. What do you think? That people on the people's markets are low intelligence? Do you think the people of the people of the people's markets are below us here, that they haven't heard of a platform? Do you consider them foolish the people of the people of the people's markets or incompetent and spiritually disabled? Why do you deceive them like that? I consider them to be very competent people as we are and, of course, the time of the digital age and of the people's markets will come. I don't understand! The time will come for digital technology for everything, but will we say that especially people on the people's markets are inferior to others? Is that what you tell the Greek Parliament? Is that the Greek Solution suggesting that people on the people's markets are inferior? And that's how you call it unregulated?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u10	Run the laptop to set up the counter!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u11	Don't interrupt. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u12	Of course we will. And we will give them money from the NSRF and incentives to give them and tools to give them to make their lives better and their jobs better and to be recorded and to cut off their evidence and to provide better products to consumers and to have more control. All I said about the good professional is not negative. For the good professional, they're welcome. So don't underestimate them the way you do it. We will give the draft law to the people's markets the opportunity to upgrade, to become better, to provide better services, to provide better life for their families and to be more consistent with the obligations to the state. Digital technology will help them. It won't be against them. It'll be in favor of them, like for everyone else. You'll see that in the end they'll all be happy. This is our intention, as we have shown, to repeat the days of Lockdown, quarantine. Let me just say, Mr President, this for reasons of history: today is, you know, a sad anniversary. It is the one year from the first case of coronovirus in Greece and we did not know, when it was announced by Mr. Chiodra on 26 February 2020 that the first case of coronovirus was found in Greece, what this would really mean for our lives all over the next 12 months. In any case, in the Krone crisis, we have kept the people's markets open, we have built confidence with the representatives of the people's markets and out of this crisis, we will create a draft law which will give them themselves and consumers better of the people's markets in the future, which is what we want. And I'm telling you, I'm the one who described me as the cold-blooded killer of the people's markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u13	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the third, with number 448/18-2-2021, a topical question from Mr. Athens, Mr. Angeliki Adamopoulou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'Marina Arets, development through degradation', is not discussed due to lack of competence. We continue with the next one, the first one under number 452/19-2-2021, the first-round question by the Member of Parliament, Mr. Dimitrios Kouvelas, to the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Secure access to the new pediatric hospital of Fiyros". The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Minister, good morning. My question is about safe access to the new pediatric hospital in Filu. The need to build a modern pediatric hospital in Thessaloniki is a constant and time-consuming demand for both citizens and the university medical community in northern Greece. That's what's gonna happen. The first pediatric hospital, designed in full will be built with the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation and will soon be provided with high-level services, health, care for thousands of children throughout northern Greece, but also in other areas of the country, while dismantling the university clinics in the other hospitals of the city. It will be erected in a place located in the Municipal Community of Fiyros, the Municipality of Pylaea - Chortiatis on the west side of Thessaloniki. However, one key issue that concerns is whether there is planning to improve the existing road network to the hospital, planning its expansion, providing for the construction of necessary nodes and in general what is necessary both for rapid, safe access to the paediatric hospital. And this should be done, both from the city of Thessaloniki, Pieria, Halkidiki and Egnatia Road, which will serve eastern Macedonia and Evros. It should be noted that during the winter season the area is particularly affected in the event of a bad weather. In fact, the competent Mayors of Pylaea - Chortiatis, Mr. Kaitetzides, Mr. Neapolis - Skeets, Mr. Danilides, Mr. Pavlos Mela Mr. Demortzides have submitted a joint memorandum proposing concrete actions to strengthen and improve the road access axis of the child hospital under construction. Their memorable Metropolitan of Naples and Stavroupoli, etc. Barnabas who is deeply aware of the issues of the region, but especially of the problems in western Thessaloniki. My questions to you, Minister, are, firstly, what is the position and design of your Ministry to ensure safe and rapid access to the new pediatric hospital in Thessaloniki and, secondly, what stage are the necessary technical studies? Has the necessary funding been provided for the necessary interventions, so that road access axes are ready and particularly safe when the construction of the paediatric hospital is completed in the year 2025? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Couvela. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u16	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Kouvela, dear colleague, I think you also stressed that without doubt this generous donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation is an excellent offer in our country. The University Paediatric Hospital in Filio will not only improve the lives of local community residents, but will allow them to have access to services we have so far not had. To say here for those listening to us and watching us that we are talking about a huge EUR 150 million budget project, which will be completed in 2025. It will be the first pediatric hospital to be erected outside Athens and will be based on international standards of operation, with two and twenty-eight beds and thirty-three beds of METH. The plot chosen - and I will tell you the story of how it was chosen - is divided into two sections. The first section is an area of thirty acres where the main hospital building will be erected. The second is an area of fifty acres where outdoor parking spaces, helicoway and a free space has been provided for future interventions. Let me tell you that the speaker considers that every great donation also implies the Greek state's obligations. Unfortunately, this was not the case in the past and we had cases of many donations eventually not receiving the necessary attention from the Greek state. Now let's go see what we've done. As I said to you before, it is not the time to give responsibilities or I think it makes no sense to do this, but to know the whole history I will tell you that there was a refusal of the Ministry of Defence's political leadership in 2018 to grant the Karatsiou camp. Thus, the space we are talking about was chosen, which presents two problems. Firstly, given that, as you said, it will be a university hospital, much larger spaces are needed to house all the services. Secondly, the existing road infrastructure is not only problematic, but is not even sufficient to meet the needs. So what have we done in these eighteen months as the Ministry of Infrastructure? In May 2020, the topographical and census charts were completed and in July 2020 the geological view, geotechnical studies, direct final study of road and level nodes, direct plumbing study of water supply projects, sewerage projects, labelling and insurance studies, electricity studies of the node floors and tender documents was completed. To give you a timeline: This means that by the end of 2021 and certainly in the second half of 2021 we will auction this project, which is designed by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, to complete its construction by 2025. The implementation time of this project, after tendering, is eighteen to twenty-four months, so as the Greek state understands, it will have completed all the infrastructure necessary to enable the project to proceed. In my dentistry, I'm going to tell you some problems we've got with the Land register. I will tell you, Mr President, that we will speed up the expropriation procedures, so that we can also facilitate private investment. In fact, in Law 4412, we have used such donations as an example, namely donations from private individuals to speed up procedures, which, as we know in Greece, are time-consuming, and I will also tell you, if you wish, also a few words about how this government and this fact can finally be understood - and it has proved, Mr President, in other terms, that the "Stavros Niarchos" Foundation, in government 2004-2009, has begun the process of the great donation it has made to the Centre for Culture - but I will tell you how we, as the great centre-point, are understood, and how we want to attract such voluntary and private donations. Because this is something that must finally become a more frequent phenomenon in Greece, not only from the major institutions such as the "Narchus", the "Onceio", the "Bodosadeio", but also from other private initiatives, which once again the Greek bureaucracy and the Greek state must not be opposed to left-wing ideals, but must embrace. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Couvela, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u18	Minister, I cannot hide from you listening to my satisfaction that we share the same anxiety in the end, our same interest and common goal is for the state to make the most of such important donations, as in this case the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the construction of the most modern paediatric hospital in south-eastern Europe. We owe it to Thessaloniki, but it will in fact be a project, as we have seen, of super-local importance and value. So it is crucial that all the design is completed, that nothing remains outstanding, from engraving, possibly, the necessary expropriations, issues of any forest land that may be there at the points. It is critical, as I understand it, that good cooperation with the municipalities from which the roads will go and, of course, with the Region of Central Macedonia, with two essential objectives, conditions for each important project. The first is to ensure funding, not to have such issues afterwards, and, of course, to be within a timeframe. Because we have many examples of this. Now I am tempted to remember, as you mentioned earlier, that the SYRIZA - ANEL government installed the hospital construction at a very difficult point and left the job to be done by the next person, dismantled the urban transport and left the next one to set them up, blocked the construction of the VENIZELOU station and stopped the metro project and left the next one to do the job. They stayed only in the inauguration - mustaches. They were running the hospitals in Thessaloniki and today we are critical of why we more than doubled the ITH in just a few months of a pandemic. So it is very important that the interventions made in the city of Thessaloniki - and several of them are your responsibility - are your responsibility, such as the "FLYOVER", the construction of school infrastructure, especially in the west of Thessaloniki, the expansion of the metro and to the west, the flooding projects that have entered into your planning - are very important to run within a timescale. I want to believe that your answer today is at the same time your commitment - so at least I get it - so that we actually have in 2025 in Thessaloniki, but in northern Greece and the region, a state-of-the-art pediatric hospital and particularly safe access to it, under conditions that will not always be ideal. They are the ambulances, which will move quickly and of course we are talking about children patients, talking about medical and nursing staff and many people and the parents of patients who should move from and from the new paediatric hospital. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Couvela. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kouvella, I mentioned all the things we have done in my prototype and I think I have given you a clear timetable for the integration procedures. You will allow me to complement that the most important obligation the Ministry has is to study roadwork for the completion of the new pediatric hospital. She's done. The register is currently pending, which is subject to approval, and the necessary additional expropriations will then be declared. As I told you, we will use the procedure referred to in Article 7a, so that we can follow a process that speeds up expropriations and is a process that we use for projects of national importance. In fact, as I said, we are legislating to make this process even quicker. I come to the most important thing that I left it for my dentistry. We have also provided EUR 10 million for the radical reconstruction of this road line. From there on, as you quite rightly said, the rest are issues which concern both the municipalities and the Region of Central Macedonia. We are in contact and in full cooperation with the Mayors and the District Administrator, with whom we are also working impeccably on other issues relating to the Ministry, and we are here on any issues that arise from finding immediate solutions. In any case, what we can do, I think, is make it clear that it is a key priority for our Ministry and the Government to implement a specific framework and a plan of interventions and projects for safe, as you said, and rapid access for patients to the child hospital under construction. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] To finish and close, Mr President, by saying that the New Democracy and our own party in some areas, such as welfare, believe that private, voluntary, if you like, raises a large part of the care we share with the state in other cases. The state, therefore, must recognise the offer and not punish the institutions or individuals, who come and offer money for non-profit activities. Unfortunately, many times in the past - and we have seen this with the SYRIZA government - this has not been the way to deal with it. No, I'd just say, as a Greek state, we didn't make it easier in the past, but we were punishing. So our government comes and gives solutions to this problem and sends, if you want, and the message, that in such initiatives as the initiative taken by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation for the paediatric hospital, we will always be next door. And you are right, Thessaloniki in four years from now will have a modern subway, will have urban transport that we will not be ashamed of. After a period of New Democracy in 1990-1993, there will be interventions in the periphery with FLYOVER, as you said, and we will have a town where the port will be connected by road and by rail so that Thessaloniki can play the role that our Macedonia must play, that is to say, be the capital of Southeast Europe. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate of the first under No 454/19-2-2021 topical question by the Member of the Greek Parliament, Mr. Villardos, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'The New Road motorway' during the bad weather of 'Medea' 15-16 February 2021'. The timely question by Mr Villardos will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u22	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much for your presence, Minister. I hope, however, that you do not have a question with the President of the Greek Solution, such as the Minister for Development, which I found repeatedly yesterday and today. Jealousy, however, is not a good counselor. On the subject now. On February 15 and 16, 2021, during the bad weather “Medea”, the operation of the ‘New Road’ motorway was interrupted. This is a direct infringement of Law 4663/2020 and Article 65, which prohibits the closure of operation on any part of the national or secondary road network with a fine, as you know, from EUR 5 000 to EUR 1 000 000. This is the second time that this highway has taken place, after such a break had taken place at a bad time at the end of December 2019. For the interruption of December 30, 2019, we asked you a question to clarify the reasons. In your reply - I note that we will present in the Minutes everything that is supporting our positions - please state that a committee has been set up to investigate the facts, which led to a loss of circulation and, secondly, that the concessionaire has submitted a snowmoon plan, while the forecasts of equipment and supplies have been considered sufficient, for example, 12 snowmobiles at the Malakasa snowmoon plant. However, the demolition plan was essential to comply with the Road Traffic Code, namely, the use of anti-slip chains on the motorway and the non-confidence of the emergency lane. The use of chains has not been observed, resulting in the obstruction of snowing, so exclusion from snow. It did not convince us, of course, because the New Road should either prevent entry, or take steps to stop cars without chains. You know that abroad, the vehicles do not circulate with chains even with a little snow on the streets, since it passes snowy with salt. In any case, you legislated, prohibiting the closure of operation, so it should be observed. If the concessionaire had not taken safety measures, the Government would close the way, so that, on the one hand, the fine would be imposed, on the other hand, not to be required to pay compensation in the claim that it was closed. You know, obviously, that it is crucial to operate an expensive highway, which has been paid with public money. There are people who need to be moved for health reasons or for other personal and business affairs and goods to be delivered and possibly destroyed. Our questions here are as follows: Firstly, how was the decision on the interruption taken and why? Has it been in consultation with the New Road? What was the preparation of the concessionaire for snowmaking? Is it checked for what he states as to his capabilities? And, secondly, if the government's request to stop operation is raised, will they be satisfied? By whom will users be compensated for the interruption? How will you ensure that traffic on the large motorways of the country is maintained and that the law that you legislated is implemented? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Villardo. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I would remind you that last week I myself came to the House - you yourself were in committee - two meetings, and I informed Parliament on this matter at the time. In any case, I am glad you are coming back, because I think that at this stage we should put things to the right dimension. First, invoke Article 65 of Law 4663. This article, this amendment, this law, that is, we voted for it, Mr Villard, we did it. And you said it and recognized it not, at least, in your written question, but in your oral position. Why did we do that? I would remind you that until December 2019 there was no provision - I repeat, no procedure - which had sanctions on concessionaires for acts or omissions, because there was simply no institutional framework. This framework was created by us as a government, not by the SYRIZA government, which in 2015 was against concessions and then gave them a total of 750 million to finish the projects and did not establish procedures like the one I mentioned to you. Let's go now and see what happened in the last bad weather. Before the weather phenomena began, the concession companies - as you have said - are responsible for the operation and maintenance of the roads. I would remind you that all the coordinating bodies had been convened and under the overall coordination of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. This - and here is our difference - is provided for in the General Plan for the Management of Extreme Needs and Immediately-Rough Management of The Effects of Snow Reporting. The ‘New Road’ snow plans, under the approval of the Police, Firefighting, our Ministry and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, have been submitted to the competent authorities on 1 October 2020, much earlier, i.e. since the beginning of bad weather. What did our ministry do, Mr. Villardo? Through the competent authority, he supervised the fulfilment of these obligations. Thus it was found that for the sections of the "New Road" Metamorphosis - Scarfia - Rachi" the concessionaire had sixty-eight snowmaking machines, thirty-two other machinery and four tons of salt. The corresponding numbers for Xenia - Trikala were twenty - five machines and a thousand tons of salt. Therefore, we checked and found that the concessionaires met the specifications and had the equipment to cope with the extreme weather. The decision, therefore, to close this road axis is not due to the inability of the concessionaire to keep this road open but to a decision by the Hellenic Police for safety reasons. That is what the Greek police were afraid of - and it has explained, I think, the more detailed the Minister responsible - it was not the situation, Mr Villardos, but the inability of drivers to drive under such dangerous conditions. And I would remind you that a few years ago, in 2017, once again, the road was open, but they had folded three vehicles - one truck and two buses - which meant that for over ten or twelve hours our fellow citizens were enclosed and then locked off in a way that did not remind of any European Union country. So what we did - what did we do as the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport? - it was that when the road was opened for some hours, we went to the concessionaire and demanded that tolls not be imposed on those on the road, so that all drivers and, most importantly, as you quite rightly said, freight transporters are served. So that's what we did. In my dentistry, I will also reply to you on the compensation procedure to which you refer and which I think you have done a great deal of mentally - and I will explain to you what I mean -. I will also explain to you, and in what cases does the Greek State come under the concession agreement, and it compensates or does not compensate the concessionaire and when the Greek State comes and beats the concessionaire's back and asks him to pay, when and where. But what I would like to say to you, Mr President, is that I see from your party - and I am surprised at a party which belongs to the wider right-wing party - an abstention to the private initiative. Have you been confused about what order of Parliament you are sitting in? Throughout Europe, we have individuals all over the world who come, do the works and then take over the maintenance and operation. Therefore, it would be extremely useful to understand why I see from the point of view of the Greek Solution on every issue that we are discussing - whether it is the people's markets - an abstention to what is called 'a healthy private initiative with a state that has a supervisory role'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too, Minister. Here, Mr. Villardo, please, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u26	Minister, somewhere you're wrong or something you don't understand. Of course, we are in favour of the private sector, we have clearly said that what we are concerned with is that public utilities and strategic businesses, while all the others in the private sector, but that does not mean that special privileges should be granted to certain private sector enterprises. I answered you, you - from what I understand - did not hear, but I did my obligation. As far as the debate that took place in the previous committee is concerned, I raised the exact same questions, I did not get an answer, which is why I came here today to repeat them. However, Greece has laws, I said it is your law, but the point to which Greece suffers is that the laws are not applicable. For the private sector, I responded, Minister, you did not hear, but it does not matter. Now, as far as the next one is concerned, it is particularly important for us to investigate the present case, because 'TERNA' has been a key business player in recent years in terms of infrastructure and energy projects in the country. Fair, of course, we have nothing against the company, we just have to take care of ourselves. We are interested in being able to fulfil its obligations in these very important areas with sufficient own resources, without any political facilities from any government. That is our view of the private sector in general. "TERNA" has undertaken many projects in Greece, as recently the last part of the high-priced E65 directly with the approval of the European Union, with EUR 442 million and EUR 38 million toll grant, by means of summary procedures, since the preparation for the NSRF is now being launched by the TIADE of the "superfund" of foreigners. In addition, "TERNA" launches a mass of EUR 1,7 billion in total, and furthermore undertaken the connection between Crete and Attica, which is progressing normally, to serve its own winds in Crete. Also, for the airport of Kastelio we have already tabled a question, noting that it is problematic, especially in the present conditions, with uncertain success and, in our view, inappropriate. BOAK would've been better. In fact, you have recently paid EUR 80 million for its construction, when we have so many deficiencies elsewhere, as we have said before, in ICUs, and also participates in the Greek Casino. Finally, the 'TERNA' took part in the 40m euros, which was provided because of the lockdown - the first one, I mean - while it receives a fixed compensation, because the tolls were not made in Varube - a Dionysus of the 'NEW', amounting to 11m euros, where we do not know how it is calculated. Our questions here - knowing that you did not respond to the previous ones, so you will answer your dentistry - are: Who is responsible for the cost of snowing and maintenance in Kifisia - Aphednes? If the ‘NEW’ is ‘new’, will the demolition cost be deducted, which has been saved due to the interruption of any compensation for the non-operation of the Varabubus and Dionysus tolls that have been paid continuously? When and how will the problem be solved, which makes it hostage - you know it very well - the whole region of the northern suburbs? Secondly, could the Kifisia - Toll of Abedians in the state be returned, so that the conflict of competences and interests in this clean urban part of the ‘NEW’ section, which is important for the operation of the Lefkanopent and where do the evacuation interventions need to be stopped? I hope that, as I said, you will answer the previous questions which you have not answered, and those too. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u28	I, Mr Villardo - you know - not just answer questions, but even when I do not have time for you and other colleagues I answer in writing. I would therefore ask you to recognise this. So let's go back to what you said and make a comment because I see an obsession with this company. It is not only this company that is a concessionaire, it is other companies. It's five highways, they're foreign companies, they're Greek companies. I therefore think that your criticism is a little unfair when it comes to a particular concessionaire. I would like to say, however, that the concessionaires, not only in the 'NEW', but also in other concessions, acted correctly and succeeded in keeping their motorways and in this case - in the case of Malakasa - fully operational throughout snowfalls. There is therefore no question of compensation. Secondly, given that the 'closure' decision - in in introductory form - emerged as a need to ensure public health and safety, the concessionaire, Mr Villardo, cannot carry out - and has so far not made a request for compensation for loss of revenue, because the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Greek Police have decided to close this motorway. Let me answer and tell you that here I see that we have an ideological difference. We consider that as a major centre-right party, the private sector can play a very important and central role in major infrastructure projects, infrastructure projects which we are planning and will see a programme that is going beyond EUR 13 billion over the next period in the coming months. They are projects that have to be designed and planned - such a wide range of projects - since the Olympic Games. That is where we also need private sector assistance. Do not forget that our government in 2004-2009 was the one that started the concession procedure. Giorgos Souflias was the then Minister, who designed and envisioned this new financial instrument. We firmly believe that people who use these roads, as in many other countries in Europe - you will tell me other than Germany, because you have experience from Germany - pay tolls for the services they receive. And as you quite rightly said, the concessionaires' obligation is to keep the streets open. For the first time, the New Democracy Government has come and introduced a special procedure so that we can impose fines if that is not the case. The government of SYRIZA did not do that, but the Government of New Democracy. Because in 2019, as you quite rightly said, when we drafted this committee and went to see what had happened, we saw, because there was no institutional framework, there was an institutional framework deficit, that we could not impose fines. Furthermore, even if we imposed a fine for reasons of communication, this could never be imposed and we would have been, to say it simply, resilili, because we would have imposed a fine that we could never actually proceed with. So, yes, Mr Villardo, there is the procedure and it is clear, there is an institutional framework. This government and the group have established it. And you can be certain that when there is the slightest process in which the concessionaire, i.e. the private person, does not do his job properly, does not work and maintain the roads, there is the framework and political will to come and impose the fines provided for by the law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Since not all Members have come to the legislative procedure, we are interrupting for two minutes until the rapporteurs, special speakers and parliamentary representatives are notified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u30	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Unique discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Organization and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of Presidents of Hellenism and the regulation of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid". The Conference of Presidents decided, at its meetings on 18 and 24 February 2021, to discuss the draft law at a single sitting, in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is proposed that the rapporteurs, special speakers, parliamentary representatives and the relevant ministers, as well as two circles of speakers, should be physically involved. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Mera25. With a teleconferencing service, ‘Webex’ platform, two speakers are proposed. Each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u31	The House has agreed. At this point, I would like to ask all the parliamentary representatives, the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the speakers to keep the time, because they have been registered to speak for about fifty colleagues. So please do not abuse time at first, because this will be at the expense of the last speakers. For 15 minutes, therefore, the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Bogdanos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, may I read the legislative improvements?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u33	Minister, would you like to read them now or after the speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u34	Now, Mr President, we are allowed to do so by our rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u35	Here, Minister, you have the floor to read the legislative improvements. However, Minister, if there are many of them, we can photo and distribute them. But if someone is critical and you have to tell her, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u36	They will then be distributed, Mr President, because I still do not have all the legislative improvements. I shall read them, as the Rules of Procedure impose, in order to facilitate the debate. In Article 1, the word ‘effective’ shall be replaced by the word ‘effective’. This is an observation from Mr Loverdos. At the end of paragraph 2 of Article 3, a 'r' case is added and a party is placed instead of the final paragraph at the end: 'the improvement of the international image of Greece abroad through the exercise of public diplomacy'. This is an autonomous addition of Officer Response. In Article 4 a case of ‘l’ is added and a party is placed instead of the final one: ‘any other responsibility relating to the international relations of the country which has not been entrusted to another public authority’. This is an addition to the Antipopulation. In the case of (a)(2) of Article 15, the words ‘university degree’ shall be inserted after the words ‘professional experience’. And that's something called for by the Opposition. At the end of paragraph 1 of Article 48, the party shall be deleted and the words ‘or competently recognised alpha-cycle study abroad’ shall be added. In paragraph 1 of Article 71, the words ‘up to two of the diplomatic sector’ shall be deleted. This is an observation of the Greek solution, and in particular of my colleague Mr Mylonakis. In Article 146, paragraph 3 is added as follows: ‘The official translation for the needs of the Presidency of the Republic, the House of Greeks, the Ministries and other public services and bodies of the public sector, in so far as it relates to classified documents intended for official public use inside and outside the country, shall be made exclusively by those registered in the register of certified translators’. This, I think, is a common place that has been shaped by the debate in the committees. In Article 266, paragraph 5 is added as follows: ‘The Disciplinary Board shall be convened within six months of the staff member's request for an apology or direct referral to him and shall be required within six months of his convening of a decision, which shall be communicated to the staff member without delay. The minutes of the Disciplinary Board shall be published within two months.’ This is the position of counter-population and has been formed in the committee. In paragraph 8 of Article 269, the second subparagraph of Article 269 is replaced by the following: ‘In any case, the ICP shall be convened within four months of the expiry of that case and shall be subject to a period of time.’. There's no reason for me to read it all. There's no need. In Article 275 a paragraph is added: ‘The Council of Orders of Excellence is also competent to deliver an opinion on proposals from the Minister of Foreign Affairs on the inclusion of deceased persons by decree in Orders of Excellence. In this case the award shall be made to the heirs of the deceased." In the case of Article 310 after the words 'food and' the words 'with the relevant ministries' shall be added. In case (b) of Article 316 after the word ‘organisations’ the word ‘in their jurisdiction’ shall be added. In Article 324(2), indent (b) is added ‘the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs who are serving with the authorities of the external service’. I won't read it all, but it's about the issue of insurance cover. I think that was the common position of the parties as a whole. For our part, our rapporteur and Mrs Bakoyannis have developed. In Article 326, paragraph 3 is added as follows: ‘A decision of the Minister for Foreign Affairs regulates the arrangements for the application described in Article 324 for the selection of on-the-spot insurance under the same conditions’. In paragraph 2 of 331, the word ‘removing’ is added to the word ‘the tasks of the industry, which correspond to the posted’. And it is about a proposal from the Opposition for the people who are transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In case (b) of 369 it changes a ‘which’ with a ‘if’. It's verbal, when we read it again, we saw that it would serve better. In Article 381(1), first subparagraph, the word ‘in the industry’ is added. In the second subparagraph, after the word ‘services’, the word ‘in this sector’ is added to clarify. In the first subparagraph of Article 389(1), the word 'in the sector' shall be inserted in the second subparagraph 'in that sector' again. In paragraph 1 of Article 449 in the last subparagraph, the word ‘four’ shall be replaced by ‘two’. It was right to comment, which was made by the Qualified Opposition and I think there was a common place in the committee. In paragraph 2 of Article 453 at the end of the first subparagraph after the word 'organisations', we add the word 'institutions' to cover a good observation made by the opposition that 'organizations' only operates restrictively. And we add the qualification of having a university degree for the Governor of Mount Athos at the proposal of the Antipolitics, which I think was also a common place to discuss. I think that is all at the moment, ladies and gentlemen. I repeat what I also said to the committee that you will allow me to consider this procedure in plenary as a living parliamentary process for the formation of legislation rather than as a closed procedure for accepting or not of the government proposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u38	Are you accepting the amendment for the two people?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u39	Oh, no. I haven't accepted her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u40	The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Bogdanos, has the floor for 15 minutes. I repeat, I would ask you to keep your time, because many speakers have written.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a bill aimed at the overall and systematic modernisation, rationalisation and upgrading of the structures and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the re-establishment of the valuable national tool of the Greek Democrat Council and the settlement of issues between other development cooperation and humanitarian aid. I would first like to applaud the climate of constructive dialogue that it described throughout the whole process of drafting the bill by the Parliamentary Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs. In a critical context for our national issues, a time when Turkish provoking, fuelled by a wider environment of liquidity and reclassification, the effectiveness of our foreign policy combined with the constant deterrent power of our Armed Forces, but also the harmony and harmony between the nation and the democratic political forces of the country in front of the big and important are the three prerequisites for the successful defence of the rights and interests of our country. At the same time, with the responsible national policy of the government, a policy that composes alliances, makes bilateral and multilateral consensus on the basis of common interests, resolves the most advantageous ends of decades and, of course, strengthens the Armed Forces, the will shown by the political forces on these critical issues, does not sacrifice the national interest in the altar of micro-party calculations, honours our democracy, and is a signatory development. It shows that after 1821, the Greeks and Greeks have, at least, realised the tragic results of the national division and despite the individual legitimate and necessary differences of approach, we are prepared to serve together the collective case of the country and the people. Ladies and gentlemen, the new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as described in this bill, is founded on three separate pillars: international relations, economic relations and extroversion and the issues of democratised Hellenism and public diplomacy. Here too, let me point out the major institutional reform of the integration of economic diplomacy at the core of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as an integral part of foreign policy, which is also underlined by the establishment of the new General Secretariat of Economic Relations and Extroversion with responsibilities, including, among other things, the coordination of the promotion and management of the country's international image, as well as of Greek products, as well as the promotion of Greek economic and commercial interests abroad. He stressed it the other day and the Foreign Minister. It is also of particular importance that the new Secretariat of Protestant Greekism and Public Diplomacy, which brings together under the new arrangement the responsibility of implementing actions and functions relating to consular, religious, cultural and cultural issues in order to meet the needs of the Greeks wherever they are. It is, moreover, a reform that is inextricably linked to the reopening of the Greek Prospective Council with all the necessary provisions and safeguards, so that it can respond again to its role by expressing the dynamics of homogeneous Hellenism, strengthening the links between homosexuals and demeanors with the mother country and contributing substantially to the coordination between the national centre and the homosexuality in order to promote national rights and interests. The reopening of the Greek Eviction Council, the new enhanced Secretariat of Protestant Greekism and Public Diplomacy, as well as the arrangements for facilitating the vote of Greek citizens abroad, which we hope to have the opportunity to expand even further, underline in the best way the emphasis that the Government attaches to the utilization of all the creative forces of Hellenism in a treaty where modern technology has effectively nullified geographical distances. In the context of the Ministry's organisational reform, I also underline the importance of the establishment of the new Directorate for Strategic and Business Planning, as well as of the Centre for Foreign Policy Design, a pool of thought that will provide and provide scientific support, working with the academic institutions of the country, contributing to the preparation and identification of the Ministry's strategy. I would also like to stress, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the restructuring of the Diplomatic Academy towards the creation of a single diplomat industry, with education in all three directions, namely political, economic and public diplomacy and the emphasis on continuing training programmes for the certification of skills, as well as the establishment of an office for defence diplomacy, a fully useful tool, especially in times that we are going through for the immediate and where closer coordination between the foreign and national defence ministries is needed. One of the reforms with the most positive sign as regards the relations between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the State as a whole is the abolition of the Translation Service and the recommendation to the new Parliament of certified translators, under the supervision of the Ministry, in order to simplify, simplify procedures, minimise bureaucracy, speed up the public's service with all the necessary provisions, so as to ensure the complete reliability of the translated documents. With regard to the forecasts for the more rational management of the Ministry's human personnel, I would first like to emphasise the importance of the Directorate for Education and Development of Human Resources. It is established under the Directorate-General for Personnel and Administrative Organisation and in conjunction with the establishment of a new system of incompetent evaluation, in which the rated official is now involved, as well as the establishment of a secondary disciplinary board, strengthens transparency, integrity and efficiency. With regard to individual changes in the provisions and regulations of this bill, I am pleased that I have just heard the Minister of Foreign Affairs incorporating into the final motions for resolutions the proposals or rather a number of the proposals of the major one, but also the minor opposition, effectively giving the signal of how we have been moving for over a week in the debate, the preparation, consultation of this draft law in the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence. Without any mood for parentheses and unnecessary references, within the sad climate of days, the way in which we worked and tried to reach agreement, and I believe that we will manage and appear in the final vote in this bill, is noteworthy as a positive sign of real policy production and not of concern to issues that are sad and worrying. In line with the public sector's requirements in the rest, the age limit for self-just leaving the service is set at sixty-seven years and is also particularly sensitive to the question of smooth integration into the Ministry of officials transferred by other ministries. The companies transferred by the former Ministry of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information are subject to the new Department of Consultants and Communications Secretaries, which are transferred by the Ministry of Economy and Development, as staff of the new General Secretariat of International Relations and Extrovertance. It is also important to rationalise the organizational positions of the Ministry. In the diplomatic sector from one hundred and twenty in eight hundred, from one hundred to two in eighty five, positions in the expert sector, but - and this is very important - return to its historic role, namely the provision of specialized knowledge. The Administrative and Accounting Support Sector is limited by five hundred sixty-nine to four hundred organic positions, but the positions of the Administrative Consulate sector are increased by three hundred one to three hundred eighty, as it is transferred by staff from the former Ministry of Economy and Development, as well as by the former General Secretariat of Disappeal of Hellenism. Also, given the current needs, the organisational positions of the Communications and Information Industry, as well as the positions of the Economic and Commercial Affairs Industry in two hundred eight, are increased to eight to ensure vacancy for the graduates of the last ECHR series, as well as for the necessary promotions of the already staffed. Fifty-fifths of staff employment under a fixed-term private service contract at the Ministry's central office are abolished, only two are created, respectively fifteen permanent staff and a contract of private law indefinite and a fixed-term of different specialties in the technical service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and only five engineers' posts under an indefinite private law contract are retained, and eighteen drivers previously transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs by other public services are retained. Finally, with regard to the crucial area of development and humanitarian aid, the priority areas of the national policy of international development cooperation and the relevant bodies including the Interministerial Coordination Committee for International Development Policy and the National Advisory Committee for Development Cooperation are increased. This ensures the institutional and organisational conditions for more effective enhancement of the Greek Republic's time-consuming commitment to humanity and solidarity in a way that ensures transparency and the effectiveness of the interventions, as well as the correct hierarchy of the relevant human materials and intangible resources. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, in an anniversary year of special symbolic weight, just a few days after the two-year anniversary of the declaration of the Greek revolution, this bill regulates fields that are from the outset found in the hard core of the new Hellenism, making a decisive contribution to both the national aging and the triumphs of Greece. The strong diplomatic presence and intervention, the effective interaction with the deterrent power of the Armed Forces, but also with the extroversion of the entrepreneurship of the Greeks, the multi-engineered Hellenism, the decisive role of the family and centers of the deceased Hellenism, the unambiguous commitment of the country to international law, humanism, solidarity, are points that emerge as priorities through the mere reading of the bill, but also the elements of the Greek idiosyncrasy. Dear and dear, the rejuvenation in the history of our nation on the occasion of this year's anniversary, but also the living example of the Greeks of today, such as the worthy of the home child, the modern national benefactor James Tsouni, in which we are politely closing the gown, prove an insurmountable in the cleanness of the truth. Greece is a country with a mission. What mission? Why was she born? To be an extrovert and an unpredictable lighthouse of law and democracy, culture and prosperity with global radiation, practicing the heavy legacy of the nation's three-year history and constantly enriching it with new, creative content. Mr President, Mr President of the Greek Parliament, Mr Minister for Foreign Affairs, ladies and gentlemen, in this spirit I should like to conclude by ending - in view of our national anniversary - a proposal that I know that he first expressed, Mr Minister, my dear fellow student at the Panteion University and today the director of educational programmes at the Centre for Liberal Studies George Archontas. As Haiti, state of the Caribbean, next to Agios Dominikos, was the first country to recognize the struggle of the rebellious Greeks, free and free, slaves for centuries. They rushed not only to wish for good success in our struggle, but also to support this success with their poor media, sending a load of coffee to finance, with the proceeds from his sale, the needs of the revolution, but also - listen to it, not many - hundred Haitians know about it to fight on the side of the Greeks and who unfortunately died before they arrived in Greece. Historical sources say the ship that took them here to fight our side. In an indication, therefore, of the sacrifice of these cowards from the Caribbean, the Haitian philhellions, the first to recognize the Greek struggle for independence, I believe, Mr President, Minister, that it is appropriate to seek through the Services of Parliament and the Ministry and in cooperation with academic institutions in Greece and Haiti, the names of these hundred plaques, to post them with an honorary plaque to Parliament, but perhaps to offer a hundred scholarships - in memory - to young people and young people from Haiti, who want to study in Greece. I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, with the emotion that Greece is a country with a mission to form a global model of law and democracy, culture and prosperity, indicating that the heavy, universal legacy of the three-year history of our nation is the most solid basis for building a society and a state on the principles of freedom and humanism. With this conviction, and with the conviction that this bill makes a decisive contribution to ensuring the conditions for the successful performance of this high duty in a field of crucial importance, foreign policy and diplomacy, I call on you, ladies and gentlemen, following on from the excellent climate in which the proposed and voting for a draft law to vote in favour of it, to vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr Bogdano. Ladies and gentlemen, a request for a roll-call vote was tabled by SYRIZA colleagues - a Progressive Alliance, which I read to you: "To the honourable President of Parliament, Mr Tasoula Konstantinos. Athens, February 26, 2021. Mr President, on the basis of Rule 72 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, we Members, who are signatories to this request, are calling for a roll-call vote on Amendment No 763/24.2.2021 on the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs (Organization and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of Presidential Hellenism and the regulation of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u43	The Minister will answer us if he accepts the amendments, so we can see later...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u44	I simply have the impression, ladies and gentlemen, that the subject of the amendment has been covered by one of the legislative texts. Therefore, if I may - you will of course judge - it is not the case. It will seem to be contradictory that the House accepts in part and rejects in part. In other words, it will lead us to a complete contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u46	Here you go, Mr. Catrugale.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Our amendment differs from the legislative improvement brought about by the Minister and the way in which he regulates the hospitals himself, but above all because it is supplemented by the provision that, in order to finance the way in which we propose to cover hospitals, he increases the rate of use of consular expenses from 40%, which is currently 100%. In any case, in view of the different logic, which exists between the two regulations, we think it should be discussed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u48	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Loverdo, you're a special speaker. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. The proposal by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, in addition to the point of substance it raises - and on which we will be placed three times in committee - also introduces an issue concerning Parliament's Rules of Procedure, which is time to make a decision - a cut-off. I do not know if you have noticed, Mr President. Colleagues raise an issue, if I have understood it correctly - if I have not understood it correctly, I am stalling this House for no reason, and I apologise - for roll-call vote on their own proposal and for an amendment, which, up until now, for decades to be discussed if it is tabled by the opposition, must be agreed by the Minister, we must take a distance now. There's this House. If there is a majority in the proposal made by the opposition, it will be voted in favour. If it does not have - as is usually the case, as the rule is - it will be voted against, but it will be put to the vote. I would remind you, Mr President - you are an eminent lawyer - that in the process of Revision of the Constitution we have all supported the very bad practices of decades in which the proposals for laws of counter-population are not passed, that is to say, that they are not put to the vote. Today this proposal involves an innovatory one. I think we should monitor him because he has very good internal logic. It is put to the vote, in roll-call votes, on the motion for a resolution and it is in this House's crisis. The usual what is it? That's gonna be rejected. But it will be put to the vote. We consider this proposal to be positive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u51	First of all, you know that under Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, roll-call votes are put on tabled and introduced draft laws or amendments to the House. We have no such issue here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, there is a point of order here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u53	Let me tell you. So I overturned to see what was happening, what was Parliament's practice in the past. I will remind you of a recent decision taken at the time by the President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, on 15-12-2015, and then I will add something. Mr Venizelos had indeed made a request at that time, and the answer was as follows. I now read you from the document of the President of Parliament and we will be discussing it later. ‘Article 82 of the Constitution stipulates that the government determines and directs the general policy of the country, in accordance with the definitions of the Constitution and the laws. In other provisions of the Constitution, of course, it provides for the possibility of a legislative initiative by Parliament and Members by tabling proposals and amendments. However, these forecasts cannot reach the point of overturning the general rule of responsibility of the Government regarding the regulation of social matters. In this light, a permanent parliamentary practice on voting for the parliamentary amendments has been established, which are only voted on if they are accepted by the relevant Minister."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u54	We want to change that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u55	Let me finish. I didn't interrupt you. I'm reading a text. If you're questioning it, it's a different matter. We'll go down. I am continuing: "We would otherwise end up with the Minister's being called upon to apply any provisions which may conflict with or are incompatible with his own government policy, for which he is politically responsible and accountable to the Greek people." So, quite rightly - I think - the President of Parliament then replied that if the Minister accepts the amendment, it is actually put to the vote, regardless of whether it will be done by the rapporteurs as a simple vote or a roll-call vote. So if it were correct to claim that it was done...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u56	But, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u57	Mr. Loverdo, let me tell you a thought. If, therefore, it were correct to claim that the request for a roll-call vote was accepted for a parliamentary amendment, irrespective of its acceptance by the accelerated minister, we would then be inadmissible: that all the amendments tabled should be put to the vote. This issue has also been addressed to us as an official opposition to the fate of the parliamentary amendments, which must be when they are not put to the vote, when they are asked here and the President does not accept it. I also wondered if there was a gap in Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I'm the one who concluded there's no gap. Why? Because we have a clear distinction here from the state's implementation. So here we don't have, Mr. Loverdos, a governing parliament, since the initiative of the legislative function belongs to the government. That's the argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u58	Is it the government alone, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u59	Will you tell me: If the amendment entails expenditure, for example, for public expenditure, for public-law legal persons, for OTAs, what does the constitutional provision of Article 74(3) mean, which needs to be passed through the General Accounting Office of the State, and what is the meaning of paragraph 3 of the 73 which lays down deadlines for tabling an amendment? Those provisions, in the present view, relate to the procedure, namely the admissibility of the introduction for discussion. Watch out for that. So the government, that is, the Minister, decides whether an amendment will be introduced for discussion alone, and the House will decide whether it will be voted on. This in the rule of law concerns the separation of powers. If we now go to the other view that there is a gap, see it in another debate, if there is a gap, which, in my view, I have told you that there is no such gap.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u60	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u61	Furthermore, this amendment entails expenditure under Rule 88(4) of the Rules of Procedure and Article 73(3) of the Constitution and cannot be introduced, because it has not been passed through the General Accounting Office of the State. Therefore, according to what we have said, it cannot be introduced and we are therefore moving forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u62	I've asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u63	Is there a report from the General Accounting Office?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u64	It doesn't make any sense, we won't have a constitutional lecture or a conversation here right now. It is very clear. I've filled up with provisions too. The Minister won't accept them. If she accepts it during, it is another matter and so we cannot discuss it. There can be no further question of this. It is very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u65	Mr President, I am speaking as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u66	We cannot have this debate all the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u67	I put an incidental question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u68	But what can we say? The provisions are very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u69	It is not your role to judge what the parliamentary representative says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u70	Oh, no. It is also a matter for the President. You're wrong. However, I will give you the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u71	You said things that, in fact, misunderstood me, because I know your legal competence. You said, firstly, that the government alone has legislative initiative. This is unreasonable, unreasonable, contrary to the separation of functions and the parliamentary character of the constitution. Yes, but every Member of Parliament has a legislative initiative. That's the first. Secondly, you said that Article 72 provides that there is only a vote on amendments and draft legislation. That's not what Article 72 says. I read it to you: 'The roll-call vote shall take place: (a) when an application is submitted, signed by one twenty-fifth of the total number of Members.' It is a general provision, which follows the corresponding Rule 71, which says how the vote is to take place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u72	What arrangement? In deposited provisions introduced for voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u73	That's not what Article 72 says. Read it. It is also completely inappropriate to say what you said about the amendments. We have a special provision in the Constitution on amendments, Article 75(2), which says that they are referred to the General Accounting Office only when the Minister so requests. So no, it's not just that what you said, but you have another constitution in mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u74	No, that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u75	Please, Mr President, do not interrupt me. He says exactly about the General Accounting Office. Read it. Ignore the device. As far as practice is concerned, Mr. Loverdos is absolutely right. There is one question to go back to what is provided for in the Constitution for the Discrimination of Functions, for the possibility for any Member of Parliament to have a right of legislative initiative. Also, I have to say the obvious. The acceptance of the opposite view, as has unfortunately been done so far and during our parliamentary vote, must be changed, because where does it lead? To be able to control and censorship the governments concerned in the exercise of the legislative initiative of each Member. This is totally inappropriate. In any case, Mr President, I put that as an incident. It needs to be discussed now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u76	We don't have an incident.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u77	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Loverdo, you'll tell me when you come and talk. Another statement was that. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u79	Why are you doing this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u80	Article 72 does not give initiative, but has a right...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u81	Why do you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u82	Like this. I have to answer, because it's a legal matter. I would like to reply to the amendment tabled by the President-in-Office. Firstly, Rule 72 talks about a Member's right. The initiative belongs to the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u83	What are you talking about? Does the legislative function belong to the government alone? This is a coup d'état.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u84	Secondly, Article 84, which sends it again, is the government's initiative, the Minister, to send it. So the argument you said, Mr Katrugale, I very much appreciate your science, but it is in the wrong condition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u85	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u86	You'll see, Mr. Loverdo. You're rapporteur.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u87	There has been an incidental procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u88	No, Mr. Catrugale. It's over. We will not have a constitutional debate here. Make a proposal for a special debate in Parliament, see if the Rules of Procedure need to be amended. As long as the Minister doesn't accept, it's over. They're different opinions. What can we do? Mr. Amanatidis, come to Stepma. You won't listen to Mr. Katrugalo, but the Bureau. The parliamentary representative does not give you instructions. You're a congressman right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u89	Mr. Catrugale, it's over. We're not having a conversation. It is a very clear matter. If you want to have a debate, make an application to the President of Parliament for a special debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u90	It's by the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u91	I don't have an intercept. Nor has he been filed in intervening nor is there anything wrong with it. Mr. Amanatidis, will you come to Stepma? If you don't want to talk, we'll move on to the next one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u92	Ask the parties to place themselves.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u93	But what do they say? We've heard the parties. We've heard you. There's no dialogue, understand it. You have your opinions. The Bureau, the previous Bureau and the current Bureau have another view. What can we do? What do we have to do? This will not be put to the vote. It's not a question of voting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u94	There has been an incidental procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u95	There is no incident, nor have you submitted an incident, in accordance with Rule 67, if I am not wrong. That's not a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u96	Look at the provisions. Expose. After the position of our rapporteur you should put it into discussion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u97	We'll see about that bypass. Let the rapporteur come to speak and we will study it. Make it step by step then. Mr. Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u98	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, globalisation and post-collar war and regional developments have brought about a peaceful, multi-dimensional Greek foreign policy to strengthen relations with Greece's new and traditional partners, regardless of their differences, with full respect for Greece's status as a member of the European Union and other international organisations. The multi-dimensional foreign policy consistently goes hand in hand with the promotion of active political support for initiatives by the UN and other international organisations for peace and fair and sustainable dispute resolution under international law. In this direction and in difficult circumstances we established the prestige and role of the country within and beyond the European Union, we have exploited all the international organisations, we have resolved one of the major national issues of the country with the Prespecies Agreement, and we have made Greece a main pillar of peace and stability in the Balkans and the Eastern Mediterranean. This policy added value to the country and its position on the international stage. With these goals and considerations we have worked out in previous years and finally in 2019 a draft law in which we have reflected our proposals on how a new institution of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs could respond to the modern needs of the country's foreign policy, and we have also formulated the proposal for the re-establishment of the Council of Disciplinary Hellenism. Ladies and gentlemen, in discussing the draft law at the meetings of the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence Policy and at the outset we asked whether the organisational structure of the new organisation proposed by the New Democracy Government is in the future, promotes the country's international position and priorities for our foreign policy in modern, demanding and sometimes difficult environment and the challenges of globalisation, if a modern and efficient RESEARCH towards the complexity of the digital age is presented in the fourth industrial revolution, the major energy transfers and the increase in world trade, the potential for Greece's participation in world policies, the climate crisis, fair and balanced development to combat world poverty, the international dialogue on disarmament which is becoming increasingly interesting, the fight against migratory and refugee flows, the fight against trafficking and exploitation of people, and more generally the promotion of global peace. This debate in our committee, ladies and gentlemen, particularly after hearing the bodies, confirmed our initial assessments that despite the adoption of several of the articles of our own bill and of the UAE, the steps taken are cowardly and postponing, without the necessary divisions, that the organization is distinguished from invertebrates despite the declarations, that it is depriving our diplomatic authorities of tools and capabilities for extroverted actions, since it does not resolve, on the contrary, the suppression and sub-financing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The steady reduction in the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs over the last decade, as well as the last budget of 2021, which is just about 288 million, makes it absolutely difficult to integrate the Counsel and Communications Secretarys and Secretaries and the provision of for the new structures established with shared responsibilities, for example secretaries, private offices, planning and service planning, audit and inspection office, foreign policy planning centre, etc. We believe that you are not making use of the financial possibilities to increase the budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the recruitment of staff, which are clearly available and clearly did not exist at the government of SYRIZA. As far as subsistence is concerned, for example, instead of increasing the organic positions of diplomatic officers, there is a drastic reduction in the hundreds of twenty organic positions of diplomats, which now amount to eight hundred instead of nine hundred twenty who are currently in force, which will surely lead to the complete reversal of the pyramid and additional difficulties in defending our national interests at a critical time. It is noted that the reduction of a hundred and twenty seats is taking place at low levels, jeopardising the future staffing of the most senior government department. Similar reductions in organic positions are also made in the other branches of the Administrative Consultant, Information and Administrative and Accounting Support. The view expressed that 'we are abolishing them as they were not covered', I said this to the committee, is not, in our opinion, a serious argument, because there are increased needs and there may be a fixed-rate planning, for example 30 per year, to cover them. The abolition of organic sites creates additional obstacles to this. Let me just put it. Organic positions that are being removed - and you are all experienced here - are difficult to reconstitute. The following points are, in our view, half-hearted and wrong policy: the weakening of political directions and the proliferation of control and coordination addresses. The doubling of the number of missions abroad, which should be an exception and not a stable practice, also entail the risk of discrimination. The increase in the length of the diplomas to the extent of the Secretary-General. Minister, I think you should see this issue again, because I have not seen you have any legislative arrangements, the four-year period being three years. Here, and in the case of research which has been carried out or which has been found on it, there will be a larvae in ten years and this pyramid will not be reversed, it will be as it is and will increase the problem. I therefore think that if this is combined with the drop in organically, the results you will have in the coming years, especially in the diplomatic sector, will be very negative, that is, you will have to reduce the time. We also consider that the placing of staff from the Ministry of Economy and Development with executive responsibilities on personal positions or giving them the option of returning to their Ministry will create serious vacancies of competence. And here we made a proposal to introduce them, which you did not do, into the expert sector, and this proposal said that they should be included there as long as they fall under the special scientific staff category and have the general qualifications referred to in Article 319. The staff of this category are classified in the grade of the Expert Adviser and do not maintain the personal difference in their salaries, in accordance with the proposals we have made. Ladies and gentlemen, what we need is an even more extrovert and effective Diplomatic Service, which can directly meet the major challenges that we will face as a country in the 21st century and a functioning and rational organisation that meets the needs of modern diplomacy. Unfortunately, that does not seem to exist in this draft law. I can mention some features. The structure and responsibilities of the Ministry's services are defined in the same body of the draft law. And yes, Mr Minister, you said that there was a codification, but I think that will make it difficult for you and that it will immediately begin to amend the amendments. That is why we in the first draft law that we brought for the agency had it not as thoroughly as you have with the addresses. We believe that this law should be a framework law and the fact that you do not maintain this will make it difficult to implement the law, that is our assessment, since it will not work as a framework law, with shared responsibilities and details and even many technical features. The second point that we had the difference and you were placed in the committees is that of a merger of the political directorates, which we believe will result in a deterioration of bilateral relations policy with important countries, as I said to Germany, France and Italy, which were separate, China and Latin America, which is also taking place at the address of the United States. We believe that, while political directorates are wrongly merged, the directorates of strategic coordination, with significant overlapping, are no reason to multiply them. The necessary general view of a wider region can be covered in good consultation, cooperation and coordination of political directions and cannot be an excuse to degrade the policy of particular bilateral relations. The proposed organisation should create the conditions for developing synergies between the services without overlaps and without losses to the project planned for implementation and the efficient use of the Ministry's resources. Another point: The General Secretariat of European Affairs is abolished and its responsibilities are prejudicial to the Secretary-General, who is with political, specific and economic addresses, with a huge burden of competence. The General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic is also degraded by its conversion to one address and subjecting it to a general secretariat with public diplomacy, religious and cultural diplomacy and consular authorities. This merger renders policy practice ineffective and problematic in all areas mentioned, not only for the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic. As an example here, I mention the inability to integrate and adapt the Communications Industry to the organisation, which could be a dynamic organisational structure of the new outward-looking activity of public diplomacy. We do not agree with the abolition of the autonomy of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic and the transfer of the autonomy of the Hellenic Republic to the 1983 logic, in particular, Minister, which we now have the law on the exercise of the electoral right of the non-Greek voters in their places of residence, even if they do not respond to what the relatives have requested, and we have the reopening of the CSCE, which was designed by our Government in 2019 and comes for a vote with today's bill. We agree with the provisions on the CSR and thank you for supplementing the draft law with the legislation you had, Minister. However, I believe that the lack of assimilation with the homogeneity at the moment, and especially for this bill, may make them inactive, since they are not designed and implemented intergroup actions, in our view, as are the special meetings, Minister, which must be held with the Committee on Defence and Foreign Policy, as well as the Standing Special Committee on Hellenism of the Diaspora. Another point: Strategic planning and international practice show the need to establish a National Security Council. A relevant provision was included in the 2019 draft law that we had drawn up. It is a modern institution that has been adopted by many countries and is a crucial issue for the country in terms of its security strategy. We stress again, Minister, that there is not only a national security advisor, it is not enough for the Defence Office. The DPRK-based organisation does not contain any proposal to improve the mode of operation and staffing of the general consulates, consulates and consular offices of our embassies, our external service, with the aim of switching them to the digital age and technology diplomacy. We do not agree with the abolition of the Translation Service in the way it is done in this bill. How we think and our proposal is detailed in Article 32 that we tabled in April 2019. We recognise the need for an overall regulation of the subject of translation, but it is not only the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and it needs an overall approach. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end. The legal form you brought, so that they have the classified documents, is correct. But there will be a lot of problems for you as a whole and I think that the other ministries, especially the Ministry of Justice, will be faced with problems, because in my view, Mr President, there will be a problem of functioning of the courts themselves and they may come to indictees, because the documents will not have been translated. I'm hitting the alarm bell on you. I've lived through it. While the establishment of a General Secretariat for International Economic Relations is positive, particularly as regards the responsibilities of the Directorate-General for International Economic and Commercial Policy of the Ministry of Economy and is transferred to the Ministry of Finance, the restructuring and abbreviation of the addresses is being carried out at the expense of promoting a comprehensive Greek policy in the field of European trade policy. We do not understand why the officials of the Ministry of Economy in extremely important areas of international economic relations and European trade policy, which are integrated into the Ministry of Finance, must take personal positions instead of being integrated into other areas of staff. With regard to the administrative functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have submitted to you different improvements proposals, and I have seen that they have been accepted with regard to secondary disciplinary bodies and, in particular, with regard to the establishment of time-limits for officials not to be hostages of long-term procedures, the clear limitations to be applied to transfers, so as to avoid customer logic and to be carried out on the basis of strict criteria, the promotion of ambassadors after three years, the number and time of special missions, the increase of rating and control structures, the degradation of addresses, the overlapping of the Directorate-General for Strategic and Operational Planning, with corresponding Secretary-General, as well as the overlap of responsibilities with the establishment of the Coordination Council of European Countries and the weakening of corresponding directorates. At the same time, we tabled to the committee and to Parliament the amendment on which the whole debate took place. Minister, the legal arrangement you have brought first does not solve the increase in the percentage of consular receipts to 100%. You know that, because of the pandemic, revenues were from visas mainly. This 40% is not enough. It should go to 100% in our view. We had it in the amendment. Also, as far as the way you regulate it is concerned, we believe - and that is why we insisted - that the solution you propose will not work. You may not have the intention, but it gives the possibility of unequal treatment and different treatment of consulates and embassies and, as I have said, the rate of consular revenues does not increase. As regards the provision for tuition fees, the proposal to remove the requirement for two years, I would like to ask you, Minister, why it could not be accepted. You can examine her. We are in a live process in the House of Parliament, and I think you can see this, as well as the secretaries being from four to three years. Mr Minister, three amendments have been tabled. As far as their substance is concerned, I shall be placed in my dentistry. However, I should like to point out that the government should have submitted them to the committees, where the Minister responsible should have come to explain - and I hope he will do so in the House - the urgency of the matter, especially at a meeting that you know, Minister, and you know well, ladies and gentlemen, that it is about the organization of a ministry. Now, in the bill for the Ministry's organization, you will have other provisions from the Ministry of Finance and from the Ministry of Justice. It's not a good legacy. I understand the deadlines, but they should have come to the committee to look at them. We saw them one day before they came to plenary, after the committees had finished. We shall then put it to the substance of these amendments. In conclusion, I should like to say that we as SYRIZA are in the direction of an organisation of up-to-date, modern, simple, interoperability of services capable of meeting the needs of serving our country's national interests, in a coherent national strategy for its foreign policy, with the enhancement of materials and morals of the servants of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It would be a omission of course not to thank you for the spirit of dealing with the amendments on your part. However, there are crucial issues, Minister, in relation to medical care, as well as the time for diplomats to remain on the record. We are being hit by the danger that in ten years' time there will be no diplomats if this policy continues. These were our points, ladies and gentlemen. We shall also be placed on the articles. Our parliamentary representative will also speak. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr Amanatidis. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been an incidental matter, in accordance with Rule 67 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, by the Parliamentary Representative of the SYRIZA, representing the President of the parliamentary group, on a regular basis. It is an express provision for the Presidents, but they are covered - we have done so before - by the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr Katrugale, you have the floor to develop your interfering question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President, for reviewing your position and giving me the opportunity to develop the incident, as provided for in the Rules of Procedure. And I see in the Chamber the President of Parliament, he obviously attended the debate and I thank him for coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u101	Mr. Catrugale, just a minute, let me explain. This is predicted to be written, as we have said, by two Members. Exceptionally, in an economy, it has been said on several occasions that the parliamentary representative can speak orally like the ministers. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u102	Yeah. So I say to you that we are following the good parliamentary practice on this, and I thank you for doing so and for keeping the climate on the dimension, which the Minister's initiative to accept many of the proposals of counter-population with the legislative improvements introduced by the House has been directed from the outset. We therefore have to look at the following question: The incident is set in the interpretation of Rule 72 of the Rules of Procedure, which says that a roll-call vote is to be made when a request is made, signed by one twenty-sixth of the Members. You have expressed a different view, saying that the legislative initiative belongs to the government. Because there is not much time, take a look at what Article 73(1) says. Article 73(1) of the Constitution states that the right to a proposal for a law, the government and the parliament are entitled to legislative initiative. We therefore do not have a way, and it would also be contrary to the parliamentary nature of our culture and to the separation of functions, if the government could not agree to discuss a proposal by a Member, to cancel this initiative, which every Member of this House has. Other if it's accepted. The House, by its own procedure and by the majority, will be placed in a positive or negative position. But can the government annul any Member's right to raise a matter for discussion? You have rightly said that there is a practice of all these years, but that is unconstitutional and must be corrected. As to the argument you said about the expenditure - half a minute, because I have to reply to specific provisions of the Constitution - it says explicitly in Article 75(2) of the Constitution - I also read this to you - about the obligation to be accompanied by a report from the General Accounting Office. It expressly says about the amendments. The same applies to the amendments if the relevant ministers so request. Therefore, a parliamentary amendment can be introduced for discussion and without being referred back to the General Accounting Office and is in the hands of the Minister alone or not. I do not think that we should continue with an anti-constitutional and anti-parliamentary practice, which burdens all the majorities, which have passed since 1975 - I do not deny that - and we do not agree with that - that each Member has the right to legislative initiative and that his or her right cannot be misled or undermined by a practice which allows the government to rule out a debate on a matter which is raised in this House. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much. I won't say anything again, I've said it, I don't want to talk again. I said it and repeat it in one word: we have no ruling parliament. But in any case, are these opinions, does another parliamentary representative want to speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u105	Here you go, Mr. Loverdo, but please, we haven't put time on the proposer, so I'm giving Parliamentarians two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u106	Look, practically the debate is closed, after the Bureau took the position it took and the majority takes the position it takes. But you are wrong in your argument from a constitutional point of view. I would stress this and nothing more, because to discuss non-existent issues I do not think it makes any sense at this stage. In the Revision of the Constitution, or in what Mr Kegeroglu says to me now, you have said that at the Conference of Presidents, in other words, you have said that you will see this, and that is why we are seeing this, either by changing the Rules of Procedure or by interpreting the Rules of Procedure. And when you say that you will see the subject, you must see it, not to finish the discussions at the Conferences of Presidents. There's a situation here. For Article 26 of the Constitution makes clear the distinction of functions with the primary role of Parliament, to God, without our citizens being a governing parliament. Our citizens are a purely parliamentary city, and here you are wrong. The second is the result of Rule 72, where both paragraph 1 and paragraph 2 and the entire debate in the Constitutional Review Committee and in plenary underlined the fact that the legislative proposals are also being debated and voted, and it is badly the super-eighty practice, which does not want to vote on proposals from parties or MPs. Finally, Mr President, where you are right is in Article 74, where, in paragraph 4, in fact, the Constitution stipulates that no ministerial or any other amendment is introduced without a report from the General Accountancy Office, but there, because I have dealt with it as a parliamentarian, because I have made a proposal for a law with a report from the General Accounting Office, I have taken care - because I knew so many weeks before I made the request in the General Accounting and I have received a report. The government, the ministers take the approval of the General Accounting Office and reports in one minute, the MPs are delaying. When they know that, they see to it that they have made their relevant contributions earlier. That is where I find a point right in your speech. But I don't think it's right to invoke Mr. Voutsi to tell us what? That the other guys did this too? All right, that's right, I said that after the transformation the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure are misinterpreted, so both in SYRIZA and in PASOK and in New Democracy. The question is whether we will continue this bad practice or whether we do not want to go into excesses - because you had a little right here that the sitting might be possible every day, if it has fifteen Members of this Parliament, to table ten nominations on the basis of its own amendments - the Rules can in a way that is very easy to rationalise this practice, but it is necessary to change and become a constitutional one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much. Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u108	You know, sometimes, some things, whether they're right or not, they're also taking one-- to say it a relaxed-comical way. Now did you remember? For example, we have said, without any illusion, that it is impossible to accept, even for discussion, amendments only if the government so wishes. Even the debate does not take place in the amendments, much more so in the vote. And that is unacceptable, it is unacceptable and politically and politically. In fact, you have a right to table an amendment which goes unscrupulously if the government does not agree, as hundreds of all governments have done so far. And we've always said that this has to change. But, to be substantial again, when the government has a majority, it will put it to the vote and will be rejected, that is to say, it will be the same. What's the difference? That at least there is going to be a debate and that everyone will be placed, and if there is a need for a roll-call vote, if the amendment is to be taken and the amendment is serious, it may also be possible to change an amendment, which may also be agreed by Members from other parties. Now, how will this be solved? Are we going to solve this today? I don't think it's going to be solved today. We want it solved, we have no problem, and we say it directly. That is what we need, when we make the amendment to the Rules of Procedure, to bring the Minutes and see what each party says and see that when it is in the government it says other things and when it is in the opposition it says other things, as you do. That includes everyone. I say that we support this view. The question is whether it's going to be solved today. It won't be solved. We shall vote, the government has a majority, and so on. And we don't understand all this effort to create impressions. Why didn't you, Mr. Catrugale, when you were a government? Why? Couldn't you do this very simple thing? We have suggested it many times. And the law proposals. When and what government applies the Rules of Procedure, which says that once a month is the proposal of the Opposition, any party? Never! From 2009 until now, it's been five times, six? And it's been so many years. So, if that is the case, there is Rhodes - not today - also in the Rules of Procedure and elsewhere to deal with them, but without having delusional ones. And this proposal by Mr Loverdos for an increased majority is a two-reader possible, so that one in fifteen cannot do "neutralism". We are not one of those who do so, at least institutionally. If this is a very serious issue, of course you will ask for a roll-call vote. If you do it now for impressions, etc., let each party take political responsibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u109	You will allow me to refer a reference to what Mr Pális said. When Kyriakos Mitsotakis was taken over by the opposition officer in March 2016, we tabled a proposal for the vote by the Greek Prime Minister. Despite the Rules of Procedure, it has never been introduced. Therefore, if we are to intervene in the Rules of Procedure, give them to the President of Parliament, see how it will be done and change some provisions. But now the provisions are as I have said. Of course, now I am not expressing an opinion. I've done it. Mr. Mylonakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have heard here, as a new Member, a debate which, in my view, is unacceptable. 'Parliamentary practice'. And I take this opportunity, because the President is here and the President of Parliament, to ask what 'parliamentary practice' means. If something is constitutional, such as tabling an amendment by a parliamentary group or a Member of Parliament or a proposal for a law, it should be discussed. I think that from the outset - and in the committees, Minister - we have put it - Mr Lovers has put it in - and we have agreed that the wrong texts should be changed. I never expected you, Mr Amanatidis, to say before, Mr Amanatidis, I am speaking now and you will not listen, you will not receive orders from your parliamentary representative. What's here? Do I make up my mind and order? You said that Mr. Mitsotakis had tabled a draft law in 2016 and was never discussed. The proposal for a law of the Greek Solution for the last sixteen months to become a committee of inquiry into the Prespecies Agreement, which is locked in the drawers of this House, when will it be? When are these things going to happen? But he also said that when he is a government he is doing the same thing when he becomes opposition he complains about what he did not do. That's what I think they should change. Our attitude in general - and to transfer it to the Greek people too - must be changed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u111	Mrs Bakadima has the floor, and then Mr. Bukokouros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin with what you have said, reading the text from the decision of the then President of Parliament, who is coming to show it, and exactly what my colleague, Thanasis Pafilis, said. Unfortunately, we see it - and we see it as television viewers following the House, because I am a new Member too - that, in fact, the bilinguality of each party is extremely successful. No party, when it's in the government, does what it wants to do from the next government when it's in the opposition. We can, I think, all agree that it is a bad practice that the New Democracy has, unfortunately, continued all these months. We are tabling all the Members and individual and parliamentary groups of amendments which, in fact, do not learn from them beyond our offices and from the services of the House when we table them are amendments which should, if anything, be able to be put to a debate, because we can agree to change things and find a greater scope for agreement. We are having this debate one day after the debate that the Prime Minister, on his own initiative, caused, on the basis of democracy and the level of the quality of public speech. So we are talking about an issue that needs to be addressed, which is a basic issue of democracy, one day after yesterday's debate, and we see that it really cannot be solved. Of course, we'll have to find a way to solve this. I agree that it will not be solved now, too. However, it is not possible for the New Democracy to deprive MEPs and the parliamentary groups of their legislative function. If that is what you want to do - because that is what you are trying to do, we are tabling amendments that are not even discussed, the ministers often do not even make a 20-second reference to them, to know why they are not accepted - then it is very simple: close the House and let only the New Democracy legislate and discuss its bills. But if we want to have democracy and function as we should, we should really sit around a table and make any changes that need to be made, so that the other parties' legal proposals and parliamentary amendments can also be discussed. Because the point is that we can have the debate, it is not about getting to the vote without having been discussed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, too. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, it is good when we talk about procedural matters - although the procedures are the soul of our culture - to avoid extreme expressions. Our group, which respects its serious parliamentary history and practice, maintains that such issues, which seek to change permanent parliamentary practice for decades, cannot be buried as incidental issues. Each party has the opportunity to appeal to the Committee on the Rules of Procedure and to make the proposals which it believes to be correct. But today, Mr President, most importantly, the Cape Verde has given me the right to speak on extreme hypocrisy since the former President of Parliament himself was clearly placed, that is, in other words, in a minority, but as a majority. That's an extreme hypocrisy. But it also gives me the right to speak for insurmountable impression. But I will not do all of this for just one reason, Mr President: while respecting the good climate created by the drafting of the bill. But we have a few issues to say. I am going to accuse fictitious self-criticism of Accuracy, because it today admits a misguided practice which it has been able to change as a majority of Parliament. And I would like to ask a few questions: If we go to change not in this process, but in the procedures provided for and to the competent bodies of Parliament, did one of our colleagues wonder how we will avoid the pillaging amendments, of axiety content, in a hunt of impressions? Legislative initiative, in our view, Mr President, there is. The amendment is tabled to Parliament's amendment office, which means it is made public. There is no clear and unequivocal obligation for the Minister to accept an amendment. And we have seen a contradiction here today, Mr President. We have seen the claim that the initiative to send an amendment to the State Accounting Office has been taken by the Minister. And if the report of the State Accountancy Office is dissuasive to the Minister accepting the amendment, what then, ladies and gentlemen? Will we have a two-speed legislative initiative, the one that passes and will have to be voted on and the one that will be cut off in the State's Accounting Office? I would say, in general terms, that we are not the wisest of all the Members who have been through this Parliament. A practical one has been created and a serious debate needs to be held on whether this practice needs to be changed and, above all, what the consequences will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u115	I would like to ask the President-in-Office if he is prepared to give us an answer to this question. The President will then take the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u116	Mr President, the government is well aware that the House is the sovereign body and therefore, by definition, it is in the view that the possibilities of discussing this within the Parliament of the Greeks should be extended as far as possible. That is why there is no doubt about it. But this is not what we are talking about. We are talking about a specific admissible procedure, on the basis of specific provisions of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I do not want to expand by repeating what you say. Look at the Rules of Procedure. I don't want to restart the articles. I must say that there is a sudden demand for change, not just for long practice. Long-term practice creates a custom and custom creates law - to be informed - that is, they are in the source of law. This is taught in the first year of all legal schools in the universities of the world. The custom is not something persecuted and unacceptable. In addition to this, however, a long and uniform interpretation, regardless of the party, seeks to revert to a debate of an organization, a ministry, leading to - you will allow me to say - the sacrificial thought that it may be intended to create a peculiar mechanism - in the United States, in the Senate called "Filibuster" - of the opposition's ability to block the government's legislative work. For you can imagine in this piece of legislation a request for a roll-call vote from the opposition on an amendment to its own article, that is, that the House should have voted before - let's take this piece of legislation - to make four hundred eighty-eight-eight roll-call votes and debates on four hundred eighty-eight proposals of counter-population. Would that be a democracy, to come to an understanding? I would say, therefore, that the Rules of Procedure may be formulated as having vacant posts, accepting them. There is the committee responsible - Mr Bukouros said so, our parliamentary representative - to ask, to discuss it, to change the Rules of Procedure. There is no question of this, but the very interesting view that the Rules of Procedure should be interpreted differently in this sitting after a long practice of decades I have to say that it makes me a little impression and I cannot agree. Thank you very much, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u118	I have to restore only to this reproach that it is surprising. Mr. Katrugalos didn't surprise us. He had raised the matter, but that is not what Mr Denktash or my colleagues should know. He had raised the issue on Thursday at noon, in his title, a Conference of Presidents. We had had a preliminary debate on the matter, an unprepared debate, because that was where it came from. The most sensible response to this issue which had been raised since Thursday was that it concerns an amendment to the Rules of Procedure and we should see it as an amendment to the Rules of Procedure. It has now been put as an incident and I do not think he deserves to take a good look at this as an incident, since the Rules of Procedure would be worth looking into it. But since that's how the Civic Opposition chooses, that's how it's going to be. But why was the matter raised? I do not think this has been the case for decades, because we have a practical mistake or a treaty of parliamentaryism. In my opinion, it is not true, because it is not, because it is not, quite simply, anticipated. And it is not a question of bilingual or collapsing the individual majority, it is a matter - because it is so thin and has so many parameters and side effects that have been put and some others that we may not think about now - to think seriously, to take responsibility and not move on to any amendment to the Rules of Procedure. But that's not solved now. Professor, you reminded me of what the "Byzantine Ruler, exile, exiled" writes. I do not mean that I want to see you exiled, but this desert says, "No one is better at knowing my father or writing or the rule of the sessions." It is not only the fathers, the scriptures and the rules of the sessions, we are also a political Parliament, especially the political Parliament, which should not close, as has been said here, 'better closed'. And you should know, my colleague, a new colleague, that we have spit blood so that the House doesn't close. I have to say this right here! I have to say this right here! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We live every day because we must not close the House for a thousand fundamental and symbolic reasons. And don't listen to Parliament 'better close' again, because we have a difference as to whether or not the roll-call vote is valid to the unacceptable amendments! And you should know that all care for your life, for your health and for democracy is a tumor of stress that we should once describe. There's awkwardness. And this embarrassment is not entirely covered by the provisions, we are not prepared to bring death around us in the country and to live and legislate and so control. Do you know how the roll-call votes take place in the French National Assembly? If anyone dared to put it here, it'd go crazy. Every Member presents himself on his behalf and votes on his behalf and another one on his behalf. Imagine that! But all this isn't happening and we're trying to be okay. I told you as an example of the embarrassment, comprehensible and not undemocratic, of the unreasonable embarrassment which exists in order to respect the balance between the implementation of the rules and the protection of democracy and the protection of health. So, here we do not have something that is wrong. It's something that's not true. And pay attention, what does it say 'an amendment that has a roll-call vote'? This does not upgrade it, it is not an institutional promotion of the amendment that it has been requested on a nominal basis. The other amendments on which no nominal amendments are requested are not in the first instance and the other one is in the Ice Bay. These institutional amendments are the same. Therefore, if any, for which there is a roll-call request - despite the fact that they are not accepted - they should be put to the vote, the others on which no roll-call vote is requested should be put to the vote. It is not as simple as it seems and it is not a matter now as an incident to resolve it. However, since you wanted it to be solved as an incident, the House will resolve it by means of its procedures.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u119	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u120	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u121	Me, nonetheless... Listen, please, I haven't interrupted you. Why are you lonesome?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u122	Don't interrupt! You hold dialogue now and you won't let the President speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u123	I had a chance to talk, I don't talk often. I ask for your understanding. It's a matter of rules, I have the right to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u124	I'm not interrupting you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Loverdo, please, we're done, let the President speak. It is forbidden, there is a provision in the Rules of Procedure that does not allow talks between Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u126	In my opinion, therefore, this is not the case, it is not, it is not, it is not, it is not, and the House should decide in the procedures that we have been deciding at this time. However, because it has been put at the Conference of Presidents, it is no longer to concern us, but, in my opinion, it is not a question that should be resolved today - it saves itself well - for reasons I cannot imagine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u129	No, please, we don't have any staff now, please, no, it's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u130	No, it's not personal, Mr. President. I'm withdrawing the request.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u131	Oh, do you withdraw the request?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u132	I would like to respond to the very serious, thorough and mild position of the President. Once he accepts that this issue will be dealt with in order to solve institutional problems, I withdraw the request by the intervener. As far as the other issues are concerned, I will obviously not go any further. Just because I, too, share the President's love for Kavafis, the second verse of the poem 'Byzantine Rule' marks exactly what we will do as a Dedicated Opposition on all issues relating to democracy and parliamentaryism. So he says this verse: 'In the real things I was, we were always diligent and we would insist...'. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u134	Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor and you have the floor, since we have secondary to the incidents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I will speak on a personal note. To make it clear what I said, because I think that perhaps the President did not understand it, I would like to say the following. Mr President, you really know how much I respect you. What I said is not that the House should close, but that we should have a democratic debate and not be deprived of the right of Members to legislate and put forward proposals. You know very well that the struggle against pandemic is a struggle that we are all giving and we are all trying to see how we will be able to return to our normality as soon as possible. However, we must see how we can legislate rather than frame the government when it legislates. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Regardless of the fact that, as the parliamentary representatives have shown, the request will be rejected, we are pleased that you are withdrawing it, Mr Katrugale, so that we can discuss it both in the Conference of Presidents and in the House. However, I believe that the provisions are wise as they are and have safeguards. The reason is now the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, before I begin, I would like to say to the President of the Parliament that we were one of the parties which, since March, strongly argued that Parliament is never closing down, neither in the environment nor in the war. Therefore, from our side and with our own powers we have contributed to the Parliament being open and doing its part. However, because we live in pandemic conditions, the President of Parliament should have made sure that the parliamentary representatives and the Bureau of Parliament are vaccinated and not that the situation is as it is today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u138	The rest of us... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u139	The rest of us, let's take our turn. At least the people who are here every day should have been vaccinated. I did not say that during the time I was a parliamentary representative, precisely so as not to oppose the argument that I am saying it for myself. However, I say this for my fellow Members, who are here every day from morning to night, as I was here, but also for the Bureau of Parliament. The President of the House should have seen this. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] It should also have seen and understood that there is no classification of Parliament's votes, according to which the substance and content of each amendment are classified. In the roll-call votes tabled in accordance with the Rules of Procedure, it does not appear that there is a classification and difference between a ‘no’ simple and a ‘no’ with a nominal. There's a political difference. There's a difference in denial, there's a graduation in denial, and that's the nominal one. Now let's go to the draft law. I shall follow exactly the same method, which I have followed for three meetings in the permanent committee of the House. But, before I begin, I want to get a little involved in the wider dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, as Minister of Education, I had established, in cooperation with the Master, but also with too many other experts, the class of sexual education primarily for parents, which is where one starts from. The two Undersecretaries who were then in the Ministry of Education were New Democracy. It had to be two years and there have also been the latest events for the New Democracy to "treat" a loss of recent memory that had occurred. Two Undersecretaries of the New Democracy at that time had participated very actively in the effort to establish sexual education in schools. What happened next? SYRIZA abolished these, as did others. I would like to say something else at this point. We had predicted that, with the constant and daily persecution of various heirs, one who is accused of sexual harassment and is an educator, since not only will a complaint be filed, but also once criminal proceedings have been prosecuted, it will be placed on temporary holiday. The next government came in and abolished it, and this demanded that there be a court ruling on this teacher. Finally, in order to relate to reality again, we have forgotten about the 'Medea', colleagues of the New Democracy, as has the promises of subordination. These are issues that we'll mention here every week. We are not the Members and politicians of the world, for what they are dealing with, we throw an institutional upgrade, we throw away a measure, and we forget it after three, four days and another topic. We will be the living memory of the problems that exist and for which we will call on the government to solve them. I now come to the draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, when you face a draft law, there are some thoughts standing on top, political top of the draft law. These thoughts form the position at the outset of an opposition party and, most of all, of the government holding a legislative initiative. As a party, we have recorded eight positions of principle that we followed the debate in the Standing Committee and concluded that we do not agree with the draft law. We agree with its provisions, but we do not agree with the principle. I am referring to them in particular, and I shall refer to certain specific regulations of the draft law, because the single debate also requires that we be placed in the first place and in the articles with a 15-minute speech. I will try to be consistent with this methodology, which I regard as the rapporteur for PASOK, the Change Movement. Firstly, it is really unacceptable in a multi-page draft law text to include issues relating to the regulatory functioning of the administration. Four presidential decrees are being abolished here. What are these decrees? The ones that organize the operation of the Ministry. Is it possible for the law to define the structure of the services of a ministry and require amendments to the law to correct the bad texts or to pass on to the structure of the ministry the views of the minister concerned? That is the first point that makes us say 'no'. For dozens of articles we will say 'no'. This is not because we necessarily disagree with the content, but we disagree with the practice that these draft laws are parts of a draft law. Secondly, ladies and gentlemen, for those who are not in the committee, the Ministry's finances are limited to EUR 288 million. One can say 'good amount'. Oh, no. They're limited to them. For within these EUR 288 million are confidentiality, within these EUR 288 million are the fixed contributions in favour of the European Union, for the benefit of the OSCE, for NATO. So what's left? There is an amount left from the consulates' revenue and the rest to be allocated to the central agency and to foreign services. That's enough? But I know it's not enough, because I've been a State Secretary for Foreign Affairs and I've seen embassies with an ambassador and nothing but underneath, whose centre sometimes calls for many and important services. So not when there is no change, but when it comes to the fundamental theme of the Ministry's finances. Third starting position is the exit age limit. We refuse to go to sixty-seven years. The Minister knows why he's good and cooperates with me every day. It is the sixty-fifth year of age in the year of exit, why are his intellectual or physical forces abandoning the ambassador? If there's such an exception, well. Why is there sixty-seventh year for others in the Ministry, and for diplomats, economic followers and experts you say sixty-five and then we see? Why? That's a start position for us. You're kicking out a man at the best part of his career, and you don't do any introductory tests in the year 2020 for the Diplomatic Academy. And because you don't run tests for the Diplomatic Academy, you don't get twenty new people to train them, then use them, you raise them a year - and here I'm talking about a provision of the draft law on the actual discussion - the time to stay at first grade. Is that a reform? It's not a reform at all. It's anti-reformation. And since I'm talking about reforms, why don't you introduce a place of permanent State Secretary that New Democracy proposed in 2000? It was proposed in 2000 and, ladies and gentlemen, we are now talking about a short time ago and a proposal to the Prime Minister for the establishment of a permanent Minister. Do we have a past like that? We have the Department of Foreign Affairs. When? Since 1936, the dictatorship has abolished it in 1968. About thirty years. How many served in this post? Eight. I divided the time, because I have no special study and said that they are sitting around four years if they were divided in this way. So, in any case, during a government service with special procedures, involving the Committee on Institutions of the Parliament, we can have a permanent State Secretary of State who has endured many years in the Ministry, to be the coordinator, but also the memory of our foreign diplomatic policy. Is this the draft law? No, the tasks leave them to the Coordinator, the Ministry's Secretary-General, who has even added time to him, a number of administrative responsibilities which deprive him of the ability to carry out his coordinating diplomatic work. European issues are still at the forefront of the principle. Mr Kumucakos proposed - I respect that - that the Ministry should be renamed to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs. I support this view for years, because I know ladies and gentlemen, that European policy is not foreign policy as long as years pass, when the currency of a state no longer exist as a State's competence, when the budgets now at the time of the crisis and the pandemic also understood that our margins as states are small, especially to us who belong to the Eurozone. Why should European policy be understood as foreign policy? It's underestimated by the Ministry's title. But I don't live in the title, that's the second one. The first is that they abolish the General Secretariat of European Affairs and the Coordination Directorate for the European Policy of other Ministries. They don't like it, they don't like it, they don't like it! They do not consider the issue of Europe, that is, the European Union. As far as the hospitals are concerned, the Minister has arranged. I have no objections, it improves things. She didn't have the draft law from the beginning. And to be honest, I don't know the arrangement, I don't understand well. That is why I am confined to our position of principle as a party. Our position as a party is that for diplomats for years the Constitution has been violated when it stipulates that the health of citizens is an obligation of the State and that the health of citizens other than diplomatic servants, other than officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who have been serving abroad, not in countries of the European Union, in the rest of the world. There things are tragic if you get sick, if you need a hospital or a medicine. And SYRIZA's arrangement doesn't cover us. What's the real need? Your patient, an official of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in a foreign state who does not accept our own insurance, does not accept a specific document, document 112, where the treatment of our official is the same as the rest of us. And practically what does that mean? It means that the embassy, i.e. the Ministry, accepts any relevant expenditure. We don't make him pay out of his pocket, because we're not alone on the planet, in a foreign hospital he'll go, if he needs to go. We are not sure what the practice of that state is. It accepts the Greek state on its behalf and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs assumes the obligation to claim the hospitals from EEA. You either take it like this or we don't agree with anyone. Either you do so, or we do not agree with anyone either with the SYRIZA amendment or with your own intervention today. It is so simple a matter of principle that I think we should agree on all reasonable people with political arguments. Is it possible to do anything else? And to God, we are not unconscious that there are provisions that seem to be correct, but in practical application they cause time gaps between a regulation and in practice, which means a gap between the time you will have to pay abroad and you will not have to pay, but you will also be treated in the final settlement of the matter after weeks or months. We have also said that we need to add to the National Foreign Policy Council and the presence of the Minister of Defence without doing other instruments. Greece suffers from too many organs. We have a subject, we're building an instrument. We have the National Foreign Policy Council. It has been observed in the years I'm there that this component is missing. It's not filled by an employee of the Department of National Defence, who doesn't exist. We want the central component, which only the Minister responsible can give it to the meetings of this institution, which are not too frequent for there to be a problem. I should now like to refer to the President-in-Office. Minister, and in committee at second reading we stressed - and you were here - that we do not understand why the General Secretariat of the Court should be a General Secretariat of Proceedings and Public Diplomas. It will lose its special weight, especially now that we have rightly organised, not a complete one, because there is no letter of vote, but a system of participation of the deceased in our electoral procedures. The Greek citizen, who is from the outset, now also has the rights of the Greek citizen who is in the country. I think that this General Secretariat has a special role to play, and with the activation of the Greek Protestant Council even if it is not done in the best way. It should be a general secretariat with only this object. Now to close, I shall refer to a number of issues relating to articles. In Article 299, why have you not added a subparagraph enabling certain consular functions to be entrusted to the provider with whom the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been committed and to provide them? If you see this, I know that you have a special note on this, you will understand that Greece earns money and provides greater service to the Greeks, who need it abroad. Why do you have to send employees abroad? I was here, sitting back there when Mr. Kammenos raised on the previous government with Mr. Kammenos, Minister for Foreign Affairs, a matter for the control of this provider. This is where we were. He took the floor then, Mr. Papatheodorou said: “What is this? Let's see it." We interrupted, we left, we went to the National Foreign Policy Council and as a sign of national consistency, I did not raise the matter with the National Council. Ask Mr. Kumucako who was there and the Ambassador, Mr. Savvaid, who was there. And for the sake of delicateness and for the sake of respect for the organ, we didn't mess up against SYRIZA, who made us a mess at the time. With the issues that were raised the provider was thoroughly monitored and you continue to have them and you are doing very well. Why don't you think that you can give the Ministry an economic advantage and a quick shot at fulfilling consular obligations by accepting such a change? Still for secondary discipline. You don't tell me, you're in the ministry now two years close, you've lived in the aftermath of a recent adventure, which many of the ministry's employees lived on Mr. Kotzias, and you need to know that there is no public official, as well as on a political, greater problem and stress than pending a case at his expense. Do you set time limits in secondary discipline, or will the procedures there be for too long? Are you going to put it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u140	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u141	I wish. I'm so glad about that. It's a necessary change. I wish it would. We'll see what you bring. Please note, I'm talking, but I haven't seen the additions and improvements you made this morning. We haven't gotten them. At least I didn't take them and I'd like to use them. Maybe it's late in my dentistry this afternoon after I see them. So I cannot know whether Article 1, as you change it, really becomes what the draft law needs and whether the removal of the word 'effective', 'effective' - I do not know how you said it - corrects the wrong wording of Article 1. On the Special Legal Service, people have raised a very serious issue. I would like you to see the relevant serological wording. Another is the legal counsellor, employed by the Special Legal Service and of course another lawyer, who will be hired to deal with a case. Finally, for translators, the intervention made by people and by their amendment they have given an opportunity to think about servants with an indefinite contract of contract to be treated as the rest of the staff. This is permitted constitutionally. You know that very well. They are not those who have a project contract and turn their contract into an indefinite contract in the practice of the New Democracy before 2009. That's forbidden. They are the servants in undetermined positions, who ask for simulation with the rest in your new service. Finally, SYRIZA needs to think very well about the proposal he has made for Mount Athos and his finances. If he thinks that way he's helping, he's wrong. He has to think about it. I do not know if he has finally tabled the relevant amendment, but I have heard Mr Amanatidis pronouncing the second reading of the Standing Committee and his approach is wrong and he has to do so again. Ladies and gentlemen, I close with the following phrase: When a draft law is introduced, which is supposed to make reforms, a serious opposition party looks into it from this point of view. We looked into it from this point of view. We have seen that in the top themes it contains, it does not introduce the institutional changes that are used to call them'reforms'. Therefore, for us it is a one-way to vote against in the first place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Loverdos. Good morning, me too. Health to all of us, because today we are filling out a year of the first case. Through my heart, health. Minister, you have announced from what I saw the legislature. You can testify to them, to help colleagues, if you're ready, and if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u143	He's at the General Secretariat, Mr. President. We've been filing them since this morning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u144	Very good. Parliamentary spokesman from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papanastassis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. The Communist Party was placed in the committee for the organization and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. He raised essential issues for both the basic direction of the bill and for dozens of articles, which make up it and support the demands of the workers. We are repeating this today. We consider it unjustified to reduce the organic positions of diplomatic officials and note that it is also challenging to perpetuate the chronic problem of non-existent or lack of insurance cover for them and much more of their families during the service of diplomatic officials to embassies and consulates abroad, particularly in states outside the European Union. We condemn the immediate resolution of this problem, which we have put to all governments. We note that the provisions of the draft law, which provide for the manipulation of workers by means of the so-called evaluation mechanism with criteria for feasibility and integration into the anti-grass strategy, are dangerous. We note that it is unacceptable for the secondary disciplinary board and we support workers' positions. It is true that there is no reasonable basis for the dissolution of the Translation Service and we support the request by translators for its operation. The bill is also referred to in the Council of Deputies of Hellenism. We also told the committee that the Communist Party maintains long and substantial relations with Greek migrant workers abroad. We want to note that the New Democracy Government, like the previous ones, is irreparably exposed. They do not give a rat's ass about the acute problems of immigrants, the impoverished, and especially the young people who took the street of the hostel to seek work and escape unemployment. We are still talking about basic rights, such as that for the education of their children. There is a debate about the Council of Democrat Hellenism, the CSCE. We can bring examples of complaints from Greek immigrants for his role as a government electoral mechanism. In practice, the already degraded Greek communities and their federations are subjugated by various organisations, financial lobbys with links to imperialist mechanisms. The Greek Council will operate on privatization criteria, increasing the role of various entrepreneurs and donors. The bill perpetuates the problem of the staffing and functioning of consular authorities in the countries with a great presence of immigrants. We have also set the example of Britain, where the only point of contact with the Greek state is the London consulate office. We repeat once again that in Germany, for example, consulates have closed down in Nuremberg, Leipzig and Hanover and that the staff in Munich have been reduced with a similar situation in the Scandinavian countries. These problems lead to waiting lists on elementary issues and are naturally afflicting immigrants. In addition to this, we in plenary today also want to raise a central issue in response to the question: what are the main features of the policy promoted by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs? In this response one can better see the relationship between the substance of foreign policy and the structure of the Ministry, the division, the provision of services and, of course, the problems of the worker. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs has an important position in the urban state. It is the tool of the ruling class to perpetuate its power and has an unreasonable place in promoting government policy. In time and through governmental changes, be it the governance of the New Democracy, either PASOK and SYRIZA, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plans and implements its policy, the geostrategic upgrading of the interests of the urban order of the major economic groups. This puts its seal on the country's international relations and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs supports it in a variety of ways, both through the bilateral relations channel with other states, as well as through NATO, the European Union and imperialist alliances. Greece may not be at the top of the world capitalist pyramid, but it has powerful monopolies, very powerful logistics, industrial, banking, construction companies and other parts of the bourgeoisie, aiming to promote business activity in the region around our country and internationally. They estimate that these targets to increase their profitability and strength can more effectively be extended through the country's involvement in imperialist planning. After all, this is the basis of the country's integration, through the policy of all governments, into the dangerous plans of the United States of America, NATO and the European Union. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs seeks to fulfil a more aggressive role in NATO, and in particular in promoting the commitments made by all governments towards this twilight alliance, to match NATO 2030, world NATO, as they call it, so that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, they can participate Greek Armed Forces on dangerous missions across the ground. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs of New Democracy signed the Greek-American agreement on military bases. It is the agreement that SYRIZA had prepared, and today the government is negotiating - what? - the renewal of this system with five years' power, with the strengthening of the US bases and extension, so that next to the foundations of Souda, Larissa, Stefanoviche, Alexandroupolis, will be added to twenty and upper parts of the country. Furthermore, the articles of the signed agreement provide that the Americans may place bases where there is a corresponding infrastructure of the Hellenic Armed Forces. Of course it says 'and with the agreement of the Greek Government', but we know how this agreement - to use this term - is'surprised'. Our people will give a racing response to both the dismantling of US bases and the US DEFENDER - EUROPE 2021, in which the port of Alexandroupolis and other infrastructures are used to move tens of thousands of naval soldiers, tanks, helicopters and other means, hundreds of wheeled vehicles and others in the Balkans, the Black Sea, in the context of Russia's plan to surround the global environment of increasing imperialist competitions NATO, the United States of America and the European Union, Russia and China against Iran. In practice, the foreign policy and defence mechanism is adapted to the objective of converting the country into a forum of imperialist wars and interventions. The same applies to the European Union, to this transnational imperialist union. The so-called global strategy of the European Union, the further militarisation, the establishment of military mechanisms, such as permanent structured cooperation, the well-known PESCO, means new suffering for the peoples, involving Greece in more military missions planned and promoted by the Foreign and Defence Ministries in the context of central government decisions. Within this course, the myths used by all urban governments have been destroyed. First myth. Through the leading role of the Americans, NATO, the European Union in dozens of wars and interventions, the myth has been destroyed that these forces are saviors and protectors of the peace and security of the people. In practice they have been shown to be opponents of peoples and their interests, undermine their future. Second myth. It has been devastated that the policy implemented by the New Democracy Government, like the previous governments, is peaceful. In practice, it has been shown that there are huge responsibilities to promote imperialist projects against other states and peoples. This has undoubtedly been documented through support for Euro-Atlantic warfare in Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Iraq, Syria, Libya, through participation in too many military missions abroad. Third myth. All these years, in conditions of deep involvement in imperialist alliances, disguises government reassurance every time and it turns out that Greek Turkish relations are getting worse. The question of the sovereign rights of even the borders is being called into question. The occupation in Cyprus is maintained, with the island at risk today by finalising the division. The act shows that what determines the attitude of imperialist alliances is the interests of the American and European monopolies, the strategic relationship they maintain with the Turkish bourgeoisie, which, in order to keep in the western camp, in competition with Russia and China, did not hesitate and hesitate to give the greatest consideration, even to the detriment of our sovereign rights. Also, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has over time handled the question of building and developing the alliance with the State "killer" of Israel, a capitalist in the region, with the support of the United States of America against the Palestinian people and the other peoples of the region. With the backs of the United States, it acts as the spear's tip in the Middle East. It promotes alliances with the Gulf monarchies, reaching to the point that the government - through the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of Defence - support Saudi Arabia against Iran, granting the Patriot missiles of the Greek Armed Forces, putting the country and the people into great adventures. The government has resorted to unfounded excuses. He claims that Patriot missiles are a defensive weapon and so nothing has been sent to Saudi Arabia. However, this argument is out of reality, it is a misleading, a rough and low level of evasion. The role of a weapon system is not only related to its technical features, but to being part of a particular military provision in the service of a state and its aggressive policy, a monarchy which has declared the war in Yemen and which is in war with Iran. The mission of a Greek missile system in the Persian Gulf is therefore an undisclosed aggressive act. It puts military personnel serving Patriot and our people in great dangers in a same cauldron. The same applies to sending military forces to Mali, Africa, to the side of France. All of this hides enormous risks for our peoples and the peoples of the region. We'll fight all our forces. All of these are crucial criteria and support the decision of the Communist Party to vote against the bill and to continue to fight for the decapitation of the country by the imperialist designs, in order to lay down the conditions which will allow the working class, our people to claim and assume the responsibility of power, to implement the mutually beneficial relationship plan with states and peoples by the labour market. In this context, workers, scientists on foreign policy issues can be exploited for the needs of our people and not for the bourgeoisie. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr Karanastassis, and for keeping time. The rapporteur for the Greek Solution Mr Antonis Mylonakis is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in a very toxic climate with this current topicality and, above all, the debate here at the level of political leaders on the tragic phenomenon that has taken place, not only in our homeland, but throughout the world, that of childbirths, the relationship between an adult and a child, the sexual relations which occur primarily in spite of the will of the child or the weak child, who is not able to say 'no', there has been a debate that has really caused sadness. Instead of seeing and going down together on the issue that hurts Greek society and hitting it at its roots, we saw a government, New Democracy, a Prime Minister, with the Most High Anti-Policy, Mr. Tsipras, exchanging messages, emails, which were recently written either in the past or twit or posted on the websites. It's a disgrace! If we want to root out, ladies and gentlemen, evil, we must hit it at its root. He must know that whoever goes to do this dirty, unbelievable moral, spiritual and cultural act that he will never get out of prison again, nor will he get permissions and will never see the light of the day again. Only that way can we rip it out when the other guy's scared when he's in his head. Life, confiscation of property and in many cases chemical castration. We've got to be squashed and tough. Hard, because that reality is tough. Minister for Foreign Affairs - Mr Dendias is not here, it is all right, it is you, Mr Secretary-General - that Turkey is escalating the tension every day and now this tension has been transferred to the Aegean Sea, to our central Aegean Sea. We had requested and promptly called for the convening of the National Foreign Policy Council, Minister, with the participation of the Chief of HNDGS and a representative or the Minister of National Defence himself. We need to know what really happens, what the Greek Government did when Izmir's illegal NAVTEX came out, with TSMEME to enter the central Aegean, in the equations, seven miles out of Lemnos, in the triangle of Lemnos - Lesvos - Skiros. Where are we going? What have we done? Is Lavrio going to drink coffee here? Because this is a ship of hydrographics from Turkey's navy, it is doing research. What do you not understand? We don't understand that either? At the same time, the theory of GALAZIA PATRIDA, the former Chief of the General Staff of Turkey, Jihat Yaji, did something that Erdogan adopted. He changed his name or tries to baptize the Aegean Sea otherwise. Now, ladies and gentlemen, the sea of the islands, not the Aegean Sea. Because Jihat Yaji says - so justifies - that 'Aegean' is a Greek word. Mr Kumucako, who you and you have handled the issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I think we can see what we say that we must react immediately. It is an opportunity, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, now to send a letter directly to the international forums and to the institutions to cancel Athens' exploratory investigations. It has nothing to do with such tensions that the Aegean is found with the great exercise of GALAZIA PATRIDA, as they call it, with the whole of the Navy outside, the Greek Government coming into exploratory contacts. This thing must be over immediately. Minister, the Greek Solution had raised objections and did not finally vote for the agreement on partial demarcation with Egypt. You are here, Mr President, Mr Tassoula, and thank you for hearing them. Some time ago the government brought the deal with Egypt. And it was voted not only by the government, but also by other parties. Do you know what's going on right now between Cairo and Ankara? There are talks to start the limits on the plots between Egypt and Turkey on the extraction of hydrocarbons. Is that Egypt's 'thank you'? Is that what the government told us it was a big deal? Is that our profit? Is that where we're gonna get there? And we have not defined the Exclusive Economic Zone between Greece and Cyprus. That's what we get. Ladies and gentlemen, we are now going to the 'Organization and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council from the Greek Presidency and arrangements on issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid'. We insist: An organisational chart must be up-to-date, flexible and above all practicable. This is dautic, massive - we have also told the Minister - and it is difficult to do so. It is a grid of general secretariats, Directorates-General, Directorates-General and Departments, which creates more problems than solves problems, ladies and gentlemen. Four hundred eighty eighty-eight articles. A hundred seventy articles. You will tell me: 'Yes, but economic and defence diplomacy has been added.' That's right. I do not know what you have done, Minister, because we have not taken the legislative improvements, we have not taken any amendments to see whether what the Minister promised did. So, at the Defence Diplomacy Department, the diplomats came out and left the military personnel, the high-level and skilled? He said that he would, because he thinks it is right. We're waiting to see what's going on. We said this morning - morning would come. I don't know if Mr. Amanatidis took them if SYRIZA took them. Didn't we say that morning - should it be in our hands? Where are these things?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u148	The Minister read them, but they weren't filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u149	I'm asking if anyone else took them, and I didn't take them. Did you do that, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u150	He's at the Secretariat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u151	Yeah, but at the Secretariat when? After I speak first? If I talk, what am I supposed to do with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u152	Minister, you have to testify here as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u153	So listen to them well - well, because I think you haven't done them. We didn't hear anything about Mount Athos, little things. Mount Athos is the heart of Orthodoxy. Where is the financial support of Mount Athos? What care do we take of our Christianity? None. We have proposed and proposed once again that there should be a parliamentary intergroup - let us all see it together, I think it makes sense - in cooperation with the administration of Mount Athos to be able to experience any problems and solve problems immediately. Four to five months ago we went there with the President, Mr. Velopoulos, who often - thickly goes. It's been over forty-five times. I went for the first time. What I saw was terrible, Mr. Lazarides. Being there the commander of Mount Athos, a serious man, helps financially, be the lieutenant, be the Holy First, be the leaders and ask for things that have finally been solved. To understand, Minister, how quickly problems are solved, as long as we want to. The MPs and the ministers have a terrible power. The point is to give it this power in favour of society and in favour of what we are fighting for. We cannot go there more than three years after earthquakes and roads, Mr Amanatidis, while most of the contractors had not signed the warrants to pay people. Mr. Velopoulos called Mr. Georgiadis and the same day they were signed. I mean, it had to be three years. Can a political leader call the Minister to end this problem? Mr. Villardo, that's the way it is. That's true. I'm not lying. They didn't have any flags. The police at her jailhouse didn't have a flag. If you saw the flags they had - it's unbelievable - they were shattered flags. We got five flags, and things got solved the same day. So simple and yet so complex, which shows whether a government, if a state does these little things it has to do. In Article 18, Minister, there is a reference to the Foreign Minister's representation at the Court of Justice in The Hague. It's the first time this has happened. What for? Does it save and we're ready to go to The Hague Court and is it now coming in that the Minister of Foreign Affairs will represent us? What's that thing? Does it save and well to eat our faces, that is, with these neo-ethonists here, with this Hitler Erdogan, eighteen years old and a esteemed President, who plays with the fate of the world, the Greek people? Oh, no! What's that thing? Article 108 There is again this terrible, Mr Kumucako, the word'minority','minorities', etc. We said next time. There are no minorities in Greece, Minister. Nor is there a Muslim minority. We went upstairs. I went to Pomakohoria. I've been to all the Muslim villages recently. What are they telling me? "Mylonakis, tell all parliamentarians that we are not a Muslim minority. We are Greek citizens in the religion of Muslims." How do we do it? Is it a good thing to make it a minority? The other one is a buddhist, the other is an atheist. Are all minorities? Let's have a look at it for the State Department. We put our hands on ourselves, we take our eyes off, and then we tell each other because it is called "minority", it is called "Turkish" etc. There are no minorities. Finish the story. They are Greek citizens in the religion of Muslims, as each Greek has the right to believe wherever he wants. Now we're going to the Diplomatic Officers' Union. Minister, Mr Denkias had promised that he would solve the problem first of all in hospitals. We know that our diplomats, this union, is the tip of the spear. They fight every day in forty - seven points, eighty - five countries, five continents. Do we agree on that? I think we agree. We don't give them money. You still don't give a penny to these people. They told me we don't have fax paper yet, phone numbers, no holidays, no formality. They have nothing to do with the 25th of March. What's that thing now? And we fill people with the main service. Oh, God! Central service! It's a state! Sitting in five offices and fighting. Oh, no! War is out! They fight! And now be careful what's going on. I was sure there was going to be an amendment. SYRIZA had a change, which is better than yours. What do you think? You're saying we're gonna put private insurance companies in the game now? You know who'll only take the paper, who'll be saved? They'll be saved, you know, Mr. Amanatidis, because you were at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, only the embassies of the United States, Washington, etc. and Australia. All the others will be herds of luck, as it is now and worse. They're not getting anything. Because they're few. Where possible, they will conclude very good agreements with a private insurance company. I think we should agree. So until a serious effort is made, people who work in third countries like diplomats, administrative officials, etc. must come here. and - to beat wood - sicken or want their hospitals or medicines, EOPYY, like all Greeks, to take over the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to meet the demands of non-public health states, outside the European Union, from third countries. Let us all agree on that, Minister. Did Mr. Dendias say where is he now? - that he will. You didn't do that either. Good. I mean, hemimeters. Everywhere hemimeters, so we can turmoil the water. Now we're going to the other one we asked for at the children's school tuition. What happened? Not even that? And that was promised to bring it, to fix it. But where are these amendments and the legislative improvements and green horses now? So you'll hear them and then, if you bring them together, I'll tell you good. Two years ago - he says - they must have their children there, Mr. Villardo. Now listen. I mean, in a war zone, the other guy will take his kid to have it with him until he goes to school. Oh, my God! I mean! These things can't be done. Have you made these, Mr. Amanatidis? Oh, no. Have you included them? Because a 60% of this is yours. Did you have them like that, and they found them ready?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u154	You asked me a rhetorical question. Is that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u155	It's all rhetoric, Mr. Amanatidis, of course. Is that possible? It's rhetorical. Because whatever shoe you guys have done, we shouldn't have been taken by others and brought us here to legislate. Minister, Art. 448. Look at it, please. Is it possible, too, that Mrs Bakoyannis in committee has said so, that we should treat diplomatic workers as managers abroad, in level and in wage terms? How is that possible? Have we all done all the same? That's why we watched and we're sad to see a pilot take 1,200 euros and a man who sat down and carved his garden to get 1,500 euros. That's what this is about. "Everyone has been inaugurated." Let's get things cleared up. Not 'we found it like this', as Mr Athanasios said earlier. "It's customary" - he says - "parliamentary ritual," I don't know what his puppy came into mind and said. What's that thing? I don't understand that thing. My mind doesn't fit. The Translation Service is a body operating for sixty years. Instead of modernising him, instead of upgrading him, what do we do? We're pulling him out. Because we're removing him. Is there any reason to be abolished? Can you just excuse us? Why is it abolished? One hundred and forty translators, ladies and gentlemen, eighteen languages, work certified. Exams have gone. They've been 15 to twenty-five years, they're experienced. He's under supervision. There are classified documents. There are public secrets, special handling. There are citizens' personal data that go to be translated. And you give them to where? Each Ministry - says - will do one round, these "smart" competitions, open competitions, we find three agreeing that the other will take it, so that they can translate. What about the personal data? What about the secrets? Where are these going? Who's gonna control them? Who's going to oversee them? The period during which they have to be who will do it? Nothing. Leave it like that! I'm gonna run a bit 'cause there's so much. High-qualified officials. These are thirty-eight employees, in fact, who are specialised in customs duties, in matters of the European Union, etc., who left the Ministry of Development and were transferred to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, for me correctly. But these people are specialized high-scientific staff. I'm not talking about the eight - nine who are permanently there. I'm talking about the people who were transferred from the Ministry of Development. What's he doing now, Mr. Amanatidis? He's leaving them a heist. It does not place them in the area of Experts, as they themselves request, because their qualifications are so high that they are proportional to the expert industry. Not here, too. We suggest it. Oh, no. What for? Nobody knows. All right, whatever the government wants. Doctoral, postgraduate, languages. Nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u156	Slowly, Mr Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u157	I shall conclude, Mr President. Your tolerance for a while. You admitted, at last, and I think that something needs to be done that the foreign ministry budget - the black funds have not yet told us how much it is to remove them too - is EUR 288 million. Immediately we have to come to the budget and vote to rise. It is not possible for the Ministry of Immigration, Mr. Mitarakis, to take half a billion euros and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is the head of the spear, the heart of our country along with the Ministry of Defence to have such a budget. That's why you've been doing the Department of National Defence for so many years as you wanted. A total of 450 million was given from 2005 to 2015! And thankfully - how did it happen? - SYRIZA put up 3.5 billion. I wonder: 450 million from 2005 to 2015, Mr Kumucaco? He wouldn't even take the Department of Defense! That's why it happened, and now we're running, and we're not gonna get there, and we're gonna pay 30 billion. And if we cut the chain, 50 billion. Otherwise there is no home, there is no Greece, there are no Greeks! We're shouting. He's choking us right. Get out for a walk and see what people say. People are hungry, and you're making independent authorities, he says. Why independent authorities to spend 300, 400 million? Is there a reason? To work. There are civil servants, managers, divisions. We pay general managers, experienced, good. Let's get them to work. We've learned! Others don't work and we make independent authorities. Do what? To make sure we're able to take care of extradited people? The Minister's here, too. I believe that it has also brought the legislative improvements and amendments before we speak. We said, my Minister, that we will have them this morning. We didn't have anything. The State Department officials, Minister, tell me the Ministry's seven pieces. Each building has one to four undergrounds. In these undergrounds, we meet records, national heritage of great value, tossed envelopes, reversed boxes. We'll make a request for the House to visit the Ministry, Mr. Amanatidis. Let's go see what's going on in there. They can't say such things to the employees that they can become a short-circuit and burn everything, that they're dripping the calorifers, that there are reversed boxes with files, folders molding from humidity. If that's true, let's all go cut our heads. Where are we going? To close, Mr President, a few words about the Council of Greek Democrats, which you are reconstituting, as is provided for in the Constitution. The main thing is that you leave it in general and vaguely to homosexual Hellenism. Greek homosexuals have specific and multiple problems. They have to be solved. You know they don't run schools abroad, that they're not paid, that there are no books? That's what the relatives want. They leave our children, they take their families. Where are the kids going to school? Nothing in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs! I wanted to know so much about the central agency and the regional authorities. Out. Diplomatics. Of course, here, too, we can get a skilled staff. But that's where the spear's head is. The Greek Solution has told you and will tell you once again: There is a total absence of our Orthodox Church, as if you had a problem with Christianity. We don't understand it at all. Reporting anywhere. Nowhere. Nor do we have a representative of the Church of Liberty in the U.S. Parental Council. Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u158	He's got the Patriarchate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u159	What's wrong with him? Easy! The Greek Solution expects to see both legislative improvements and amendments, Minister. When are they coming to see them? You have promised to do some things. You have to do it. We're waiting. The Greek Solution at first voted against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mr Mylonakis. You blocked the electronic timer. The rapporteur for Mera25 and Vice-President of Parliament, Sophia Sakorafa, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will take this opportunity to talk about some political issues that belong to the responsibility of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. After all, for the bill as a whole at the four meetings of the committee, we had the opportunity to discuss the articles in detail, but also in the debate in principle. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a government that has given the support to the choices made by the United States and NATO. And yet we find that our country is low on the communication priorities of the new leadership in the White House and the State Department. A month ago, we had a two-day bombardment from the media of the eternal government propaganda and funding that the US President and the Greek Prime Minister are on the table. Then there was a complete silence and so far no communication has been made by the new leadership of the United States with Greek politics or state representation. I assume, Minister, that you too, as Head of Greek diplomacy, share our concern about this situation. Your assessment of the reasons for this political behaviour would also be very interesting. Obviously this failure of the White House sends out a clear message of deterioration towards the willing and obedient Greece, the given Greece, as our Prime Minister has said. Degradation is also confirmed by other events. It is well known, Minister, that you only had communication on 15 February with your new counterpart in the United States, Anthony Blinken, who was on 26 January. We have said this from the first moment: The statements on a given ally are downing our own country. This voluntary determination defines the way we are treated by the United States, but also by any interested party, who can be no more than a deterioration. However, there is something else that also means an additional Greek responsibility. The excellent support of the Prime Minister's government in all the initiatives of the Trump government is probably not so positively evaluated by the new Biden government. In this respect, the SYRIZA government, who was always willing to participate in the mining of the "Dambly Good" Trump, has also been involved. Let us not forget that our relations with Russia for the sake of naval planning have succeeded in reaching a point that can be compared only to the coldest period of the Cold War. We also need here in the Greek Parliament to talk about how foreign embassies are present in our country. The Ambassador of the United States to Athens had presided over us since his previous mandate in Ukraine that he would have a more active presence, to formulate it as diplomatically as I can. We have recently seen the German Ambassador intervening with journalism courses, for which there has been no reaction, and I can say that. I would be very pleased if you would disprove us in this, Minister. Or did you point out this inappropriate behaviour on 15 February in your communication with his boss, the Foreign Minister? Incidentally, did you have any information about the planned role of the Bundeswehr, the German army in areas where our country exercises sovereignty and has sovereign rights? The German Ministry of Defence has issued this project one week before your communication. I have already submitted this to the previous committee. I imagine that you will certainly have been informed by your services, but this is a matter that requires treatment at a high level and in cooperation with the Minister of Defence and it is not a matter that can be entrusted exclusively to existing units. I have referred to the Greek extreme support and acceptance of extreme positions. Only one mention in our relations with Iran. There was a few days ago a meeting of the Foreign Ministers of France, Germany and Great Britain to get together and coordinate their moves in relation to Iran, given the change of leadership of the United States. We all know that our relations with Iran are a major factor, affecting our relations with other countries in the region, such as Turkey, Israel, Saudi Arabia or the Emirates, with which we have recently entered into an alliance. What is the design of the Greek Government? What does Washington say or what Berlin says? Perhaps we should think that today we are discussing the organization of a ministry called upon to serve the policies of other countries. The acts and omissions of the government, its own political perception, have almost abolished the role of the Ministry. Perhaps this explains the lightness of dealing with the issues of his body. It has been over a year since we heard of your consultations with representatives and actors. And it proved to be in the debate with the institutions that you did not listen to them all. After all, they told the committee very much about the whole process, although you had the time margins, you were very selective with regard to the proposals and remarks you accepted. We've seen it many times the same work. Any consultation is not actually being dealt with, but only as a compulsory procedure, which must typically be completed. And what's the result? Everyone's dissatisfied. You have not dared a new radical planning of the Ministry. You have easily overcome the treatment that administrative science would impose for fear that you will not collide with the staff. And yet that's exactly what you did. You stood on the surface of things. The controversy of the treatment is seen in all three pillars, which only corresponds to the three Ministries of Origin of the specific staff, and the General Secretariat of the Greek Democratic Republic, along with the following presses in a heirous and weakened pillar. For the democratic Hellenism, I say this again, there is a need for independent infrastructure and not, of course, at the level of the Directorate-General and, indeed, for a ministry which has a Deputy Minister, a Deputy Secretary-General and Secretary-General. Mr Minister, we have in front of us an essentially incomplete and immature body which requires review and revision. It is better for our foreign policy and for its workers to withdraw it. After all, you yourself announced yesterday that there would be legislation on the restructuring of the foreign authorities. A deficient content in the body, a problematic legal text with ambiguities, abstractness and a distortion of reality. I will mention attributes that only two years have been completed in the table for the ratio of officials in the central agency and abroad and not for six, as it should have been. But even in these two entries the number of staff refers to only one year. So no comparison can be made. But the exaggerated zeal for distortion touches the boundaries of the comical. Indicatively, only on the sixth page of the report, there is reference to staff increases. Elevations by 8% and 12% are small, while 18% are seen as a marginal. Unfortunately, these reports also bear your signature, Minister. But there are reports that many other people have to study, in the House, in the public administration, in the courts, in universities, etc. We all know that two are the main problems of the Ministry, which are systematically covered in silence, sub-committee and sub-financing. In the end, however, these two problems are used for the application of customer choices and ruptured choices. It seems that, especially in order to cover the many strategic and executive units, there is also plenty of money, but there is also staff, but not for services abroad. For chiefs, yes, for their necessary infrastructure, no. It is almost ironic to refer to a transition to the digital age, when the proposed organisation not only improves the functioning and staffing of consular and diplomatic authorities, but actually prevents them from operating. The result was accurately described by all the institutions. For ever-increasing Greekism, there are fewer and fewer consulates available with staff, which is constantly shrinking. They are matters known and we are tired of repeating them. In the same way, we maintain diplomatic delegations subordinated, with an ambassador, which covers all three pillars, and has to meet the other needs of the service up to a secretary and voicemail. I do not know whether I should say something that has made me very impression that in the middle of 1990, when ambassadors were referring to the problems of subsistence of the service, they mainly stressed the high level of training required by the service by the diplomats. I will mention his name, Mr. Theodoropoulos, a diplomat and former Secretary-General at the Ministry, mentioned features of the level of language learning that diplomats should not just speak foreign languages, but rather 'celadine' them, because an ambassador should not be forced to draw up a private communication himself because his existing one does not make it, said Theodoropoulos. In the face of such serious problems it is ostrichism to deal with dilemmas of the press "yes or not to a permanent State Secretary or how many general secretaries and from them how many servants". The problem is not how to shape the top of the pyramid. There's not even a normal pyramid here. There was a great concern about the name of a body, whether it would be for "democratic" Hellenism or "unreal", or for "university". But the problem for us is not there. The problem is that we don't have a policy for all those people who live in New York, either in the Argirokastro, in Berlin, or in Tenedo. You don't even move on to the necessary brave staffing abroad. Repeat the anachronistic approaches of customer transfers, as decades ago. You do not move 2020 on recruitment through the diplomatic academy. Your ultimate state doesn't need them. Already many people think or even tend to solve the problem by extending their years of service to retirement. Your obsession with anachronism is seen in the languages required for the introduction to the Diplomatic Academy. In a multipolar international environment you reject such languages as Arabic, Spanish, Chinese and Russian. They are official languages of the United Nations, they are used by hundreds of millions of people in countries with which we have critical relations, but we also have prospects. And why are you doing this? One is the possible explanation: To serve a small diplomatic caste that wants to be renewed hereditaryly. Please, if you have another explanation to tell us. In all this, our downward course cannot be regarded as a surprise, nor can its negative consequences. For example, the so-called "Turkish Pact" is not just an achievement of Turkish diplomacy as the natural result of our Ministry's subscribing and subsidizing. This is how we need to make deep regressions in time to invoke Greece's last diplomatic success. And that's not about the respective abilities or the adequacy of the Ministry's staff. Minister, at the time of the so-called 'investigation talks' with Turkey, the concerns are becoming even stronger. We cannot overlook the impossibility of the government - and above all the Prime Minister's responsibility - to reject Germany's bias from the outset. So we are caught up in a compulsory sequence of constant retreats, and in fact without having ensured a framework of sanctions in advance, we are discussing and negotiating the time when Turkish warfare is investigating Greek shelves and enclaving Greek aircraft. On the contrary, we have managed to'start' the discussions by definition and indefinitely postpone any possibility of sanctions. This is certainly not a framework for real dialogue. We therefore hope that it will not prove to be a pretext for a covert promise. If it is not accepted, many will be found to blame Greece for the deadlock with the first - first - part-time Berlin. We had anticipated this development since the summer, if you remember, Minister. We had warned that we would be trapped in this dilemma in which we are in today. With great concern we also hear the repeated Prime Minister's statements, which identify as our only difference with Turkey the demarcation of maritime zones. We all know that the term'sea zones' also includes territorial waters. So we ask the Greek Government directly: are there any spatial water issues that you have decided to discuss with Turkey and what are these? If there is so far no given, do you treat it as a possibility in the development of things and if so, what do you plan to do in this case? Let us also point out a paradox: this is where you decide to set up a multitude of staff and strategic units at the Ministry. However, in the critical discussions with Turkey, Greece comes with a representative of the Prime Minister's exclusive choice. The three-member negotiating team shall include the Head of the Ministry's competent unit and the Head of the Office of the Secretary-General. The Agency's strategic and final plans, which we are called upon to vote on today, prove in practice that there are only for communication consumption. You are tabling an agency that the political leadership in question will be bypassing freely. The political reality therefore has its own regulatory effect. He does not obey designs on paper that he does not take into account. This will also happen with a number of provisions of the organization. Let this at least be an opportunity to restore, Minister, long and exotic injustices, such as the ones with hospitals, tuition fees, the staff of the Ministry of Economy and Development and the unequal treatment of the following press. You will allow me to conclude with a special issue that I put to committee. So I told the committee that the quality of human resources is crucial in particular in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And we are talking not only about qualifications at the time of entry into the service but also about the necessary, lasting implementation, much more since much of the Ministry's action is about promoting national positions, dialogue and negotiation with counterparts abroad. This means direct competition in the depth and range of knowledge of the topics and in their evolution until the critical time in question. So I ask you a question, Minister: can you tell us - for example - about the costs of the Ministry’s library for the years 2005, 2010, 2015 and 2020 on the supply of books and scientific magazines along with subscriptions to specialised websites? The selection of years results from the gradual development of the Greek reality: 2005 before the Memorandums were imposed, 2010 at the beginning of the memorandums, 2015 peaking the Memorandum Pressures and 2020 when most parties have celebrated the end of the memorandum. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much, Mrs Sacorafa. Mr Konstantinos Tsiaras has the floor for the amendment with a general number of 764 and a special number of 5.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u163	Ladies and gentlemen, I am before the National Representation to support the amendment of the Ministry of Justice, which extends to the deadlines for submitting statements of assets and economic interests. As you may have already been informed, since this amendment has been tabled for two days, the deadline for submitting statements of assets and economic interests, as we all recognise, is extended until 31 March 2021. There are the exceptional circumstances created by the pandemic, and we know that there are the measures that have been taken, so you realise that this time, which the government proposes to extend, makes sense to answer many issues and many issues that have been raised, especially in the last few years. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u164	Be well. The Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Nikolaos - George Dendias. Immediately afterwards, the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr George Karugalos will be given the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Mr President. I did not know that SYRIZA's parliamentary representative would ask for the floor. I have to say I would have ordered another year. I'd have chosen to listen to him first, so I could answer him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u166	You should know he wanted it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u167	I imagine he thought so too. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to make a position on the wider topicality of foreign policy. I would like to repeat that our country, our country, Greece, is confident and, of course, neighbouring Turkey will not succeed in creating the Greek foreign dog syndrome of Pavlov. Greece reacts as it should, not when and as Turkey wishes to do, and for reasons obviously even to a student in primary school. And I would like to say that it is happy that, contrary to the past, the whole political world has read in the same way or rather in the same way that open and simple Turkish planning. I would now like to come to the legislative issues and comment on some which have been addressed by the rapporteurs. I would like to apologize for my brief absence from the Chamber. It is about the need to speak with the UN Secretary-General's special envoy to Libya. I would also like to say to Mrs Sacurafa, who referred to our relations with Russia, that at 14.30' s, you will allow me to leave the Chamber for a second time in a week with the Russian Foreign Minister, Mr Lavrov, and that I have spoken twice with Mr Blinken. This is certainly not about me, but about the government of Mitsotakis and Greece. I now come to the main axes of the draft law. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government considers it an important reform and a necessary modernisation of the Ministry. It integrates economic and public diplomacy into the structure of the Ministry, as well as the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic. I have heard a great deal in the Chamber from a number of colleagues - as in the committee - about non-reform, not opening up in the future, a non-visional one. I did not see any specific proposal tabled. I have heard some general outrages, the usual ones. I have now been a Member for many years, several years in Parliamentary Representative to the opposition, I know about the stereotypes of extremism used by the Opposition when there is a general political period of exacerbation and would like to intensify it. So I did not hear a specific proposal. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, of course - and I must be clear here - his proposals have been tabled to the Minister's institutional opinion and I have used them. Therefore, the question is not addressed to the Qualified Opposition. But I address it to the other parties. If they really have answers to a future challenge, why do they not even present them to us as thoughts, to understand what they are talking about and what they are thinking about and possibly adopt them? I have also heard a comment again on the size of the legislation. Honestly, I have never heard, ladies and gentlemen, that a progressive position is the adoption of presidential decrees and a non-progressive position is the introduction of a law in this House. I've never heard of that thing before. It's never happened to me before. On the contrary, I myself have made many criticisms of ministers myself because instead of bringing the provisions into the suffering of Parliament, they choose the path of the Presidential Decree. Because that's the choice here. And since it has been said before that I will be afflicted by the introduction, when necessary, of amendments to the legislation instead of choosing, I imagine that, in the view of those who have sent me the recommendation with good motives, the Presidential Decree instead of the law, I would like to tell you this: the last Presidential Decree, which is of great national importance and concerned the closure of the tricks in order to extend the territorial waters, has remained in the Council of State for four months. This flexible way of suggesting to me about the Ministry's organization? If that's what you suggest, please, look at the processing times of the presidential decrees. I would also like to tell you that I do not hide - and I have said this directly - that the government sees reform in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a three-stage course, and that is the first one. And it is certain that, despite the torture procedure here and outside Ethiopia, there are possible errors, which we must jointly see and correct in the future. There's nothing wrong with that. Evil is the notion of infallible, deceased, not the perception of a government that takes legislative process as a dialogue and accepts that it needs to be adjusted, in accordance with the circumstances. This is the Mitsotakis Government, this has chosen as a colegislative process. As far as time and space savings are concerned, I am telling you that there is a piece of legislation here that codifies. And I told the committee that codification at all legal schools and all legislative thoughts everywhere on the planet is a good thing. This is the first time I have heard that codification is a negative one, because it produces large pieces of legislation. We now have new legal opinions against codification. Interesting! However, I would like to say this: there has been a great deal of effort here to shorten it to the extent that it was possible. Example: The Translation Service. In the previous Law of 2007, the Translation Service has a forty - three - page bill! It's set in nine pages here. Do you really think that's an exaggeration? Also, in terms of time and the possibility of dialogue, the legislation started with a working group set up - and all the Minister's actors were involved - in October 2019. The end of November was a first plan. There has been an internal consultation since November 2019 with my offices and secretaries for almost ten months. What was that, when he couldn't hear it in these ten months? I am not saying that we have accepted all the views expressed. And I do not hide from you that I think that a number of opinions were completely syndicated and we did not include them, and I will then explain what I mean. But what couldn't be heard? Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a second phase of reform that is being implemented as we are discussing, and that is the digital transformation of the Ministry. And I would like to thank the Minister, Mr Pierracakis, and the Ministry of Digital Policy for the very good cooperation we have. We seek - digital transformation has two axes - an integrated digital management system for operational processes, which is completely missing from the Ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry does not even work as a Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the 1980s. Until 1960, everyone who has served in this ministry knows that. We are pursuing a network of electronic document handling, which is absolutely essential, a new safe network for the movement of classified information - can this not be in the 21st century? - a modern digital platform for the collection and management of open sources in international media and social media, a system for the financial management of the External Authorities - do you know it is still done manually? - and also a digital repository. It was said in the Chamber what is happening with the huge archive of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is a total property of the Greek people because it is the living history. If these are not digitised, they will be lost. This is the reality and this is done and attempted, and of course it will take time, but the process begins. There is also a second axis, which concerns the digitisation of all the consular services provided - it was here earlier, and I was replaced by the Minister responsible, Mr. Kostas Vlasis, - so that the Greeks, who live abroad, can communicate with our embassies and be served by our embassies. And if you have seen, for a short period of time there has also been a first appearance of the system by the Prime Minister himself, Mr Mitsotakis. We must also fully reorganise the Diplomatic Academy. The Diplomatic Academy, first of all, does not teach our diplomats today the opportunity to deal with the economic diplomacy that enters the Ministry. And let me tell you one of many: we need a comprehensive reassessment of both the way and the teaching process. The Diplomatic Academy is currently teaching Greek diplomats how the Greek side sees things. It does not teach them how their interlocutor - anywhere in the world - will be placed against the Greek position. And in this effort, too, everyone's ideas are absolutely welcome. We also need to restructure the authorities abroad. I have been accused here before - and I am surprised, I have to tell you - that there are more diplomats on the inside than on the outside, as the legislation says. Legislation says nothing, because the law does not regulate the authorities abroad. That would mean that when he comes, but since we discussed it, let me tell you that right now - to know the numbers a little - we have five hundred 11 diplomats, seventy with an ambassador, two hundred thirty nine with counsel and only ninety-three with secretary and nineteen followers. In Portugal, a country of similar size to us serves four hundred ninety-one diplomats, two hundred and twenty-two serving in the central service, sixty-sixty-nine in the foreign authorities. In Austria, there are four hundred twenty - six diplomats, two hundred fifteen inside, two hundred eleven out. In the Ministry we currently have two hundred twenty in the central agency, i.e. 43% and two hundred ninety-one abroad. The ratio is 1% to 1.3%. The international admissibility is from 1.1% to 1.8%. That's the analogy. So when we have this debate, I would ask that we get a sense of numbers. From there on, ladies and gentlemen, we will also transform the Export Credit Insurance Agency. The law is almost ready, it's coming to the parliament. Forgive me, I will insist on the process of legislating by parliament and not by the Presidential Decrees when I have the option. I also want to tell you that in this legislation the Ministry is structured into three main pillars: international relations, economic relations and extroversion, public diplomacy, democratic Greekism. As regards the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic and the Public Diplomacy, a debate has taken place. It has been heard very little - I must say - in the Chamber and in the committee, but it has been heard more in various letters, which I have received, that it is downgrading the General Secretariat, the former General Secretariat from the Greek Republic. I beg your pardon, ladies and gentlemen, those who have served at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs know this, but I will tell them about those who have not served at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. First of all, the de-democratic Hellenism was outside the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, outside the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was an escalation that was somewhere in the city, a building outside the Ministry, except the Ministry's overall policy. Do you know how personal he had what some people said was a great national priority and the Mitsotakis Government, as he is now introducing it into the National Representation, is degrading it? So this great national priority, ladies and gentlemen, had just twenty-five people, isolated somewhere outside the Ministry. These twenty-five people had in 2017 a budget of 3m euros, in 2018 they had 2,8m euros, in 2019 they had 2,2m euros, in 2020 they had 1.5m euros. These were the budgets that were in place and I must tell you that they were not even able to absorb these budgets, of which - these funny budgets - 45% were not absorbed. In fact, I think that in 2019 67% was not absorbed, 67% of 1.5 million euros. And you're saying that this new proposed arrangement is a deterioration over this past, which you consider to be upgraded, if we could take the time back? As far as the Council is concerned, I think that there has been an overall position. As regards the reduction of the general terms, this was done by a decision of the Prime Minister and, in my view, it was right. The reduction of individual organizational units, forty-eight out of sixty-five and sixty-seven out of three, there the savings are far greater and certainly fewer services to the Minister, twelve instead of nineteen, because the perception was a ministerial figure, which does not work in modern reality. The ability of people to become Minister again can't do it all by itself. However, the modern trend is the creation of structures that operate entities that communicate with each other. And the concept that has been developed in this Chamber, which I have also commented on in committee, is a concept of ostracism. "I have a problem, I make an address." Is that how problems solved? Then it would be simple. We would have been as many addresses as possible, we would have solved all the problems and we would have been happy. That's not true. Organisational units should be able to recruit as a whole the factors which constitute the problem they are asked to face and on which they should suggest. And they seldom are an isolated state. There is a fact called 'globalization'. I guess we all know. A new Coordination Service and a new Strategic and Operational Planning Directorate are also recommended. Is it possible for a ministry which is primarily strategic in nature not to have a Directorate for Strategic and Operational Planning and, in fact, to do so, will the Minister, the Deputy Minister, the Deputy Minister and the Deputy Secretary-General, not have a given body which is working on it and which, from now on, can be channelled through the addresses that implement it? What model of command on the planet is this model currently in existence? Because I do not hide you, the changes in the ministry are not the product of the wisdom of any of us, but the copying to a very large extent of internationally accepted standards. Foreign Policy Design Center as a think tank. I don't suppose there's any objection to that. The Office of Defensive Diplomacy, which I introduced in the form of a legislative improvement, was a good observation of the Greek Party during the committee. It has already worked in this period as an excellent link and at a time of crisis between the two ministries, the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Data Protection Officer's Office. Is it possible it doesn't exist? [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance for a moment. As far as the Directorate-General for Economic Affairs is concerned, we are creating a structure that can support the work of the Ministry, that is to say, the Directorate-General for Financial Services and the Directorate-General for Administrative Services. Because I have to tell you that at the moment one of the huge problems of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is that it does not have an autonomous Economic Services Directorate. And that creates, firstly, a complete inability to handle costs. Indeed, earlier here and in confusion about what is being discussed, it has, I think, been rightly criticised for the fact that the Ministry's budget is only EUR 288 million. Of course he's small. But this debate is being held in the budget, it is not being done here. In other words, the budgetary allocation of EUR 288 million, which has been voted on a few months ago, is a parliamentary acidity. But it doesn't matter if I take it. However, can I tell you the worst, ladies and gentlemen? The problem is not just the EUR 288 million, but the fact that the Ministry does not have the capacity to absorb 288 million. Because as a new Minister, precisely because 288 million were not enough, I asked the General Accounting Office of the State, when 90% was added, additional funding. And the Ministry was unable to absorb the extra funding. So the idea that if today we go to 500 million without having gone through this reform...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u168	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u169	Because it does not have financial services, because Greek diplomats are not taught the management of expenditure, because the Diplomatic Academy does not teach the objects that it should teach, Mr. Loverdos. That's why! Because the Ministry is in the 1960s! That's why! And these are known to those who have served, as to you. I sign expenditures 1,000 euros, 900 euros, 500 euros, 400 euros. That's the reality. So good, then, to increase the budget. If we do not reform the Ministry, the increase in the budget will be incomplete. As I told you before, he couldn't absorb 1.5 million for the popular Hellenism! He left 67% without absorption. As regards the evaluation system, there was no evaluation system. How is an assessment of the outcome of a working battle unit, ladies and gentlemen, called an embassy? How is the ambassador assessed? Tell me! Has there been a proposal here that we have not agreed to discuss? They are good for the future, for the centuries, but in essence there is no evaluation system. And we are introducing an evaluation system and there must be a measurable assessment system with objectives. I'm coming to the age limit. I have been accused of lacking political courage and political courage, because I am not going to sixty-five years to sixty-seven. Indeed, that would apply to any other ministry. Ladies and gentlemen, how many phones have you got to ask me to extend the age limit from sixty-five to sixty-seven? How many phones? Is it politically brave to go from sixty-five to sixty-seven or refuse to go from sixty-five to sixty-seven? Is it popular with the Ministry to go from sixty-five to sixty-seven or not to go from sixty-five to sixty-seven? So who has the political bravery? The one who says 'yes' to sixty-seven, or the one who says 'no' to the sixty-seven in this ministry? Ladies and gentlemen, it must not go to sixty-seven for now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u170	Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u171	He shouldn't go to sixty-seven. There are now fifty - three diplomats, fifty - three, fifty - four years old who have not commanded an embassy. And if we keep this up, they'll never run an embassy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs pyramid must be released. And there is no other way but to remain at sixty-five years. And this is a completely unpopular instrument in the Ministry, and I know it, and I say it, and I apply it. I now come to the Human Resources Education and Development Department. There was no, in a ministry that really human material is the main. There's nothing else. Foreign policy is formulated by people and implemented by people. It does not have a material important tracking that improves or reduces its performance. There is no Directorate for Education and Development of Human Resources. Where do we live? I said 1960. Did I have to go back pre-war? As far as the Translation Service is concerned, I have heard 'to remain as it is'. As long as I am Minister, for two things I have been complained about, either for the service of consular authorities - and we face it with digitisation, because there is no other way - or for the Translation Service, where you have to produce a document and wait 15 days to translate it into you and of course call the Minister to make you a rousphetti. Why is the Translation Service a state agency? Where's that? And why is what we choose isn't self-evident? There was a previous piece of legislation, as I said before, forty-three pages very complex, with number of translators per county, per language, per language. We choose a completely free model that guarantees security and leads to digitisation, because every document translated will have a specific barcode and that is why there are details of the form of the document. Because this is a full digitisation of all the translated documents, as to where they are and will know what the information base has been translated by any licensed person. From there on, the same people who make translations today, along with those who qualify for translations, under the conditions that they make them today and in the time they are doing them today, will be able to provide the public with services in a reasonable time. I think the regulation that we are introducing is self-evident and the House of Certified Translators is a modern, simple and functional solution, which by the way will also save some millions in the Greek state, because, as the Translation Service works, the state is 'inside'. It was said that no recruitment was made. Indeed, twenty-one follow-up posts have been published for 2020. But it is true that there was no competition because of the pandemic. There are also twenty-one posts for 2020-2021 that we hope will allow the pandemic to take the tests, because we need them too, too. There have also been five legal, twenty positions for the communication industry. Of course we also anticipate transfers, because the Ministry needs administrative staff. We cannot have an army of generals unless there is such support underneath. And because there are people with great potential who might want to serve in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, and overcapacity in another part of the public sector, we choose the transfers to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs as a solution to the problem of subsidization that we are discussing. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we have had a luxurious procedure, and we have rightly had it, because it is indeed important and important for legislation. They've exchanged opinions. We haven't stopped this process in a while. However, I would like to say that I consider it extremely important and I will not get tired of repeating it that even at times when the political thermometer has been up and intensified in general, we have managed as a political system, as parties, to discuss the issues relating to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in depth and in a climate appropriate to the national nature of the Ministry concerned. The legislators that I committed, I have submitted them since I entered the Chamber this morning, have gone to the General Secretariat of the Government, and the reason why they have not been late, if they have not shared you, relates to items coming from other ministries due to the end of the month and which, however, have to do with the pandemic, such as the amendment on where Mr Justice has just analysed. From that point on, thank you very much. If anything needs to be done during the debate, I'll be reassigned. I would again apologise for the two absences during the debate, one to speak with the special envoy for Libya and the other to speak with Mr Lavrov at noon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u172	Thank you too, Minister. Mr Katrougalos now has the floor, and then Mr Constantine Scandalidis, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u173	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Minister confirmed the very positive impression he had left as a parliamentary representative. He is a parliamentary man, he respects Parliament, he has received several of the comments we have made. I shall refer more specifically to the bill. But it will allow me, as he did, to make a brief reference to the timeliness that unfortunately does not expect our own debates. We had a statement a moment ago by the new transitional Prime Minister of Libya, who had celebrated the government, that he considered the Turkish pact to be a very good deal and is going to respect it and implement it. We had yesterday, a few days after the very positive meeting at the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, at the "Forum of Friendship", the Egyptian-Israeli Agreement on transport by vessels "NLG" of natural gas from the great look of "Leviathan" which calls into question whether EastMed will proceed. Have we anticipated them? Did we know or amazed by these events? And what is our strategy toward them? A roadmap for relations between the European Union and Turkey has recently been announced. Are we watching it or are we absent? And immediately we are going to have a major event, the resumption of the Cyprus negotiations. Prior to the respective negotiations in Geneva and in Crans-Montana, the then Prime Minister had called the parties' leaders for information. We still see that in all these matters the government is moving without compass and in empty strategy. And we do not charge this mainly to you, Minister. This is primarily the responsibility of the Prime Minister. Not only because on a number of issues, there seem to be distances, verbal differences, which may hide other things between the Prime Minister's statements and the permanent positions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, not yours, I do not want to raise any question of your personal modulation, institutional is the issue, but above all because the Prime Minister has the responsibility of defining the general policy of the country, much more on issues like these. We are therefore reintroducing the question of the need for a national front, but it requires a national strategy which is currently lacking in all the issues I have just mentioned. Let us now move on to the organism issue. What's the big deal with the Ministry? He's been put by a lot of people. It's subscribing and subscribing. It is not the question of having more abroad or more internal diplomats. We have very few diplomats both inside and abroad. And unfortunately, in the Memorandum of Understanding, the budget money is constantly falling. One example, Denmark is a country with about half the population from Greece. It has three hundred, seventy-seven, six diplomats abroad, compared to two hundred and twenty that we have. In other words, it has a double figure with half the population. A four-time ratio, therefore, is worse to staffing our own ministry. Don't tell me that Denmark is a rich country and we're not that rich, because Denmark's neighbour is Sweden, it's not Turkey, Denmark doesn't have a family, and Denmark has a four-fold smaller defence budget than Greece has. Since the fall of the Greek people we have invested in the defence budget and should have been the reinforcement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Obviously for reasons of honesty, I cannot give you responsibility for subscribing and subscribing, because it is a fact that the Ministry has been characterised in recent years with particular intensity, as I said before, in the Memorandum Reductions. However, there are problems that can be attributed to you personally, for example, your institutional intervention in setting greater time for the evolution of the secretaries, the basis of the diplomatic body's pyramid in relation to all the other categories, which actually exacerbates what you have rightly charged to the Ministry's disadvantages, the status of the reversed pyramid. Also, the fact that they have not been recruited. At least thirty recruitments each year of new followers must be made. So we did not expect the agency to solve this fundamental problem of the Ministry in particular. However, the body in a few of these provisions, which are relevant to the problem, does not introduce positive but rather negative amendments. I must, however, give you the good news of the organization. On the positive side is the adoption of a large part of our own proposals just as they had been incorporated into our own draft organisation. I'm counting them between about one third and half a bill. And if we consider that the bill has been overscheduled because of imports into it of the provisions on the establishment plan, the ratio is much higher. And it is not just in painless provisions, it is in important reforms that are positive, such as the confidentiality reform that gives Parliament supervision of how they are managed. It is the provision for the Council of Democrat Hellenism, which is exactly the same. It is the adoption of the need to have evaluation and targeting. There you are differentiated from our proposal. The main thing, however, is that it really needed evaluation and targeting at our Ministry. Also positive - and here I mentioned earlier, when I described you as a parliamentary man - it is that you have accepted a large part of the proposals, not only of ours, but also of the minor opposition to the legislative improvements that you have made, although it is true that in many of them, maintaining your own logic, as you have every right, you have not done so. I shall refer in particular to these. It is also a good thing that the reform that has been intensified on this day is being completed, and I do not really want to blame the fact that the attempt to integrate economic diplomacy has begun already since Mr Loverdos' time, but the effort to integrate all the political aspects of the country into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has been completed. I think, however, that she remains incomplete. Mr Amanatidis mentioned the case of the Institute of Greek Culture, which would incorporate cultural diplomacy in our Ministry and the case - I quote - of the OECD that became a front - and it was right, like all forms of country representation in international organisations, that was initially included in our Ministry's responsibility, he returned to the Ministry of Finance. Having spoken about the positive points, however, I can only tell you that, despite their existence, the general balance of the bill on the serious issues to which I shall refer, but also on a serious issue of structure, is burdening the backbone towards the negative, first - first - on the question of structure. This time, the rapporteur of the New Democracy was more diligent to you and did not repeat the designation of the bill as a 'collective'. But it goes without saying that the bill contains heterogeneous elements, presidential decrees and laws. You are quite right to say that the legislature in this House is much more democratic than the legislature by means of presidential decrees. However, the presidential decrees by their nature are legislation which allows more detailed wording than the one a law has. That is why we have referred through legislative authorisation to this secondary legislation. Therefore, the balance of a bill is seriously reversed, when things that are not in the quality and nature of the law are introduced into it. Secondly and more importantly, the organisation of our addresses really needs reform. I, too, had tried to do it, but I found that it was not mature for our diplomatic service to propose substantial and definitive solutions at that stage of the debate. And seeing the organogram you testified, there's still this gap. I mentioned to you, for example, that it is not possible for the political directorate, that A7, should join North America, Latin America and the Caribbean. And much less it is not possible for economic management B3 to have - apart from all these countries - and the countries of the European Union. These are politically dissatisfied, economic. Here, not just there is no progress, there is a setback in relation to previous reforms that have taken place. You were right to say that the General Secretariat should not remain a foreign body in relation to the Ministry. That was our logic. It is a great mistake, however, that it does not have functional autonomy for a state that has such a great dispersion as our own and that the General Secretariat, in which you went and the competence of public diplomacy, should have it. This also unfairs public diplomacy and the necessary national policy in the area of fraud. Also, a very important problem, Minister, is weakening the political and strategic role of directorates. Here you were forced by the close corsets of the state to incorporate regulations such as the Strategic Planning Department, which in no case fit the character of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, because the strategy at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs defines all political directorates and, above all, the Directorate-General for Political Affairs. So there is no address at lower level than that, simply because administratively it requires regulation for the final state to be imposed on our own diplomacy. Also, the levels of administration you are trying to introduce for coordination purposes, the coordination agency, the regional policy coordination councils, actually complicate the administration of the Ministry, introduce new levels of administration and thus not just contribute to the coordination of policies, but in fact they are a step backwards. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I don't think I'm gonna need more than a minute. Your leniency, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u174	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u175	There are important issues relating to diplomats and general staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These are not syndicated issues, because the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the tool we have to promote national issues abroad, but also the development of the necessary strategy. For hospitals you make an effort to improve the setting. However, I do not think it is sufficient. But above all, Minister, you did not accept our supplementary proposal to increase the rate of use of consular receipts by 100%. It is not a definitive solution, it is an aspirin solution, but it would make it easier to deal with the issue. Correspondingly, I can't speak more in detail. Finally - and for us, the lack, perhaps the most important of this bill, is very important - is lacking in any reference to the National Security Council, contrary to our proposal for a law. All of what I mentioned earlier about the empty strategy, about the need for institutional communication between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the need to have alongside the CSCE as a governmental regular crisis management body and a respective council for their strategic management and for the development of a strategy, all this requires the existence of a National Security Council. And the solution reached by the Prime Minister, to appoint a National Security Counsel and Deputy National Security Council without having the institutional background of the board, is a classic case of the cart in front of the horse. For all these reasons, Mr Minister, I believe that this is a debate in progress. All the parliamentary parties must see it with the seriousness that suits it and understand that it is not a press debate, it is not a 'licensed shirt'. What we are talking about about the Ministry of Foreign Affairs actually supports the need to support our country's national positions, the need to make our country's voice stronger abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor to table some legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u177	Mr President, I would like to table - it makes no sense to read them again - the first series of legislators. Please share with my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u178	The Parliamentary spokesman from the Change Movement Mr. Konstantinos Scandalidis is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u179	I would like to apologise to my fellow Members for taking the floor and delaying them from putting themselves in place. I have already heard three Foreign Ministers. If I hear Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Kumouchako, I have to speak as Foreign Minister. I can't talk like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u180	Gospeletta!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u181	I'll stay in my own place. I will not talk about the details of the Agency. First of all, Mr Loverdos was clearly placed. He said where we disagree in principle and put in place all the eight reasons why there should be a different plan of organisation and not what was ultimately tabled, with all the details. I must admit, of course, that the effort made, Mr Minister, which seems to be being made through this organization, but also in your position, the establishment plan, is a product of serious and great work that has been done at the Ministry, which is certainly worth congratulating. It is a basis for a debate which can be held in great detail here. I shall therefore confine myself to a few general comments relating to our overall contrast with the principle of this bill. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are not discussing any organizational programme which provides administrative services and actions. We are talking about the Ministry's establishment plan, which is directly linked to the country's wider strategy. How does the proposal relate to developments in this strategy that are now becoming an entirely different dimension in a new era? Are the changes that you introduce adapted to the new needs? The Minister made an honest effort. But, in the era of digital capitalism, in the new geopolitical conditions in the region, which are changing rapidly, in the ever greater integration of the Greek economy into European, in the development of international cooperation institutions and in particular in the fight against diplomacy needed by the country, and which the government must develop and make friendly efforts in this region by making a laborious effort, this particular organizational programme offers a great deal of change, adapts to these new conditions, when issues such as growth, defence, the economy, culture, and sport are getting such an international dimension and touching on to the Foreign Ministry as well? Its coordinating role therefore requires another structure, other flexibility and other intervention. I would therefore say that a new establishment plan for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, really adapted to the specific new circumstances, should focus on the full upgrading of the structures of the embassy and consulates around the world, on upgrading the structure of critical aspects of the national strategy. I believe that this agency does not serve it. First of all, there should be a major change in the relationship between foreign services and internal services. There should be a coordinating role of the Ministry, which is intertwined with the co-responsible ministries through structures and not wishfulness. There should be another financial possibility. It is not the problem that we are getting a little money and we cannot absorb it and since we cannot absorb it and we cannot take it any more. But is this the reasoning behind the organization of an organization, a ministry, which is going to exercise this kind of national strategy? I listened very carefully to the Minister. He clearly said that we have 200 million and that we are spared because we cannot absorb them. Hey, we can absorb them! Why don't we absorb them? And absorb multiples! That was to offer as a new structure the organization. Is the renewal of the relationship with the demigrant Greeks, the strengthening of the structures, which are guaranteed by a mere reference to the reopening of the CSCE? Should it not be through a much more important, institutional, and through a dialogue with Parliament's co-legislative committees, but also with the homosexuals, a great debate and a much more comprehensive view of how the structures of the association of the country with the homogeneity can be reopened? This is very important in terms of our own perception of this. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that we are at a time when the country's position in the region and its alliances, but also its overall effort must be upgraded and the Foreign Ministry should really be the tip of the spear. And I ask: The change that you are proposing, which improves many aspects of the ministry's operation and, as Mr Katrugalos said earlier, but also other speakers, has positive elements of individual changes at various levels, came with the magical word 'codification' said by the Minister? He made a change coding. The Department of Foreign Affairs doesn't need coding. It needs a change in the structure of the organogram, its organization. He needs a new concept to get through it. And I believe that this is the first big issue to do with the debate we are having today. A second point, which I would like to raise, is this overall conception of organisations and of the change of agencies and of the change in the administration of the state. It was an opportunity to begin at some point in the state, and in particular from this area, which is the most critical, a real reform effort, and I believe that this effort, despite the hard work done by the Ministry, is lost. I want to tell you a personal point of view that has to do with my experience. I remember that all Prime Ministers since the mid-1980s have been talking about small and flexible forms and a modern state. While everyone was saying it in the election, after the elections we did not see any flexible shape under fifty - I quote a number, it is usually over fifty - people. At the same time, when you ask them "why do you do this and do not do the other?" they say "public administration is disgusting and stimulant, the state is not run without many ministers". I have also experienced the experience of bringing committees from abroad, from the European Union, to propose structures for the Ministry and for the agencies, and they have reproduced the structure of a great modern state. Greece is a small state. It could have a very flexible structure, it could have a simple spatial and functional separation that comes out of the country's own experience of many years of governance. So design plans come in, they go in line, and then they don't act. How many times the ministers did not discuss the Ministries' organizations, they were calling administrations, there was the debate and there was an organizational chart that, while he wanted to shrink the administration, he actually extended it, he put new things, not that they should not be able to see new things. To get the new things in, but to have another structure and another distribution so that this state can finally function. Well, that never happened. So it is not the codification of our subject. It's the change. And Mr Loverdos is right, which says that it is not the question of Parliament discussing a bill of hundreds of articles which, until the slightest detail, provides for what is going to happen. How employees operate and financially and officials in their hierarchy are governed by other laws and are already fortified. But how a structure works, it needs a great overthrow, a great change, to make the state really perfect. But can this government, when it builds this gigantic end - supposedly - state and gathers all powers, function in the Ministries' organizations in that sense? It cannot and cannot, because this requires decentralisation of governance. It requires diffusion of powers in institutions. It requires decentralisation of responsibilities and resources, and therefore in its logic "to collect everything and direct it centrally" there cannot be an organization that really changes this structure. There can be no such body in the logic that the type of government is currently operating, imposed by the current government and the Prime Minister. This is our fundamental opposition, which is why we are voting against, not because it has no positive provisions - it has many same provisions - and not that the Minister is right, which says a number of things that we are wrongly discussing in so many respects because all this is reasonable and must be done. Obviously, some of these have to be done. Overall, the structure and functioning of this organisational chart does not correspond to the needs of a national strategy in the current circumstances. Finally, as far as the issue of Greek democracy is concerned, I would just like to make a point that there should not be a abolition of regional councils, i.e. the dismantling of the CSCE base, and there should be a substantial dialogue in dispersal - I said at the outset - the will of the state to activate the constitutional institution of the CSCE throughout the homogeneity and to reach intergroup consensus and, as I said, in cooperation with the Committee on Citizens' Hellenism, because we believe that a new start in this relationship, especially now that in the elections the Greeks will take place and vote, a new, dynamic relationship does not begin with a simple reference to an organogram, that the CSCE is reopening. Finally, I believe that this is a negative development today in Libya. It is a negative development, despite the ambition and hopes of the militant, diplomatic initiative of the government in the region. I would like to repeat, ladies and gentlemen, and I have told the House before, that I am concerned about the awkward silence on the Cyprus issue, which has taken very negative direction and development. I believe that the National Representation at some point must, apart from the Greek-Turkish, go beyond the need to correct our policy on Greek-Turkish and indeed to acquire a national line, there must be another debate, which is related to a large national issue such as the Cyprus issue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We're entering the list of the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Ladies and gentlemen, your time is seven minutes. There will be a one-minute tolerance, not more, so that we can complete the list. Mr Lazarides from New Democracy has the floor, shortly after Mr Athanasios from SYRIZA, then Mr Kumoucasos and then I will give the floor to the two Ministers to make their position on the amendments they have tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u183	The disciplinary provisions have been deleted?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u184	Colleague, there will be further legislative improvements from the co-legislative ministries. A little patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Lazarides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the most exciting thing about the future is that we are given the opportunity to shape it, says British philosopher Charles Handy. That is exactly what we are supposed to do today. It is, I think, fully understood by everyone here that our world is changing with speeds and ways, which even more perceptive than us could not have predicted. We are living in a modern multi-pole world, in which the challenges are multi-level. Unpredictableness remains the norm and uncertainties more than constant. What I am describing is not a case of work, nor a card exercise, but a tangible day-to-day reality, a reality in which we are called upon to adapt immediately, if we want to tackle the challenges effectively, both today and tomorrow. With this draft law, the Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis once again demonstrates escalated reflexes of adaptability, update and renewal. With this draft law, our foreign policy acquires the necessary structure and infrastructure in order to make it even more flexible, even more dynamic, so even more effective. Ladies and gentlemen, the new agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, introduced by this draft law by the completely successful Minister Nikos Dendias, upgrades, updates, rationalises, corrects, innovative. It upgrades the operation of the Ministry through its reorganisation in three organic pillars: the first pillar concerns international relations. The second pillar in economic relations and extroversion. The third on the issues of democratization and public diplomacy. This makes the Ministry a central body, not only to pursue Greek foreign policy, but what must be in modern geopolitical reality, a powerful institutional vehicle to promote positions, interests, international economic relations and the image of the country worldwide. With the new organization we streamline its operation through the reduction of the general stamps by one and the individual organizational units of the central office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. These reductions do not work precariously for the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but give flexibility to the exercise of the new expanded mission of the Ministry. We correct shortcomings, clamps and pathogens and improve procedures. The establishment, for example, of the Defence Cooperation Office is sure to bind coordination with the Ministry of Defence. Here, Minister, I would like to ask the Government to consider changing the legislative framework so that the National Foreign Policy Council is also involved. In my opinion, it does not mean an EPA without the participation of the political leader of the Greek Armed Forces. Let me take another step towards functional correctness. Given the modern geopolitical complexity, it would also make sense if the participation of both the Minister of Finance and the Chief of the General Staff of National Defence were to take place on a case-by-case basis. The national policy of international development cooperation in this bill is remedied in a way that can increase the country's political capital, to do so with credibility, away from the sinful shadows of the past. The new organisation is innovating. It gives the Foreign Ministry the tools to make the country's voice stronger. How the Minister analysed it and, of course, our rapporteur, Mr Bogdanos. I feel proud that this relationship of national empowerment is entering a new base. We are now avoiding the bureaucratic and other burdens of the past. Let's not forget that the substantial upgrade of relations with the Greeks of the diaspora is an expressed strategic choice of the government and has already taken its course with the vote of the Greeks abroad. For the New Democracy the Greeks of the world are an integral part of the national perspective, which strengthens even more and is reflected in the motto "Greek family - national family". Allow me to make one final comment. Today, it has been putting an end to bad practices with regard to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs Organization in recent years. This draft law, unlike recent past practice, gives due respect to both the exceptionally enthusiastic staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the very process that upgrades it. In the adventures of the organization, which had begun since Kotzia, when in the ministry "all was torn apart by the dreadful and the slavery" according to a common confession by the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, when the Minister and the SYRIZA government brought the body into the House, a perfect one enters. The body is treated as it should. Because the Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a code, and as a whole, not a fragment, not as individual puzzle pieces, but as a whole, as it is today. Ladies and gentlemen, the Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the'reservoir' which reflects the foreign policy we want. The new organization reaps new dynamism in our foreign policy. Repositions the country on the world map with a renewed national footprint. It enables the modern democratic Greek state to intervene multi-dimensionally on the international chess board with escalating national benefits, but also through the substantial upgrading of relations with the international environment, by strengthening people's mutual understanding and the building of relationships of trust between them. For these reasons, I am proud to be able to participate in the renewed future of Greek foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Athanasios from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u188	Madam President, I will characterise this draft 'violated draft law'. The pipes are our time and it's not a bad thing. They're useful. They're necessary. All we have to do is admit that we need an intubation. It's an intubation. Besides, the term has also been transferred to the economy. For example, Professor Sapodzoglou has described the Greek banking system as a ‘violated banking system’. The Minister of Foreign Affairs, mild, calm, a day-to-day, as a Minister of Foreign Affairs fits. And mildness and coolness don’t think they’re harmless, the Bible somewhere says the snakes have poison because they’re just cool. At the time of his position, however, you know what I thought? I thought the one he said - I don't remember who said it - that the aim of speaking a good criminal is to make you forget what you asked him. Anyway. I will try to get to the very short amount of time that I have to focus on a number of points which, in my opinion, prove to me the attitude of this draft law. I think, Madam President, that it is not right to criticise a politician because he has not succeeded in realising what he dreamed about, what has been envisioned. But you have to criticise him when he can do something, that thing doesn't. The question 'what I can do' is the first one, I think, which should put on itself the one who exercises government power. And I will make it even more intense. What can I do right away? Here we have a clear example of omission. What others have been admonished or put into a second or third fate, my modesty will dare put it first just because it proves some mentality. I am referring to cultural diplomacy. In 1993, the Hellenic Foundation for Culture was founded, which had been subject to the Ministry of Culture for many years. As an autonomous organization, he once passed to the Ministry of Culture, where he continues to fall to this day. The responsibility must be restored to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's over and over! I am now in your crisis, Minister, that all the respective institutions of civilized countries, the 'Thervantes' of Spain, the 'Pushkin' of Russia, are in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the respective country. It makes sense, doesn't it? What definite emulsion rejects this? Let us insist a little on this aspect because I think it reveals a culture. We can go back to the Greek Foundation for Culture at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We don't. We don't do what we can do. So what do we tell the Greek peak diplomat? We tell him your gun is a weapon civilization put down your gun and go fight. The arrangements provided for in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are in some respects correct. I note that you have also incorporated proposals from articles in our bill, that is to say you have taken into account our preparation. The sad thing is that this draft law in public consultation has had two hundred and fifty-six articles, while what we have today in our hands has four hundred eighty articles. I mean, in consultation, you gave half the bill. Is that a good piece of legislation? Is there anyone who's proud of this? And forgive me, I'll use a popular expression. I'll use another folk image later. But what oil is this, in public consultation, two hundred and fifty-six articles, and today we have four hundred eighty articles here. However, to make it clear what I have in mind, as I have said, I will use a popular image. How could one call this bill in the language of the ordinary Greek household? Meremelia! In fact, she was bored by a processor who was bored, and she actually wasn't getting high. And he's coming and he's telling us he's gonna follow a second phase and a third phase. I'll come back and get drunk because I can't do it the first time. What did that master do? He was covering up, covering up, avoiding the problem every time instead of solving it. As has been said several times here, the main problems of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are two, sub-financing and sub-commissioning. The last budget, this year in 2021, is about 288 million. What are you going to do first with that amount? Will you incorporate the Communication Counsellors and Secretaries industry? Can you afford to set up the new structures on their feet? In the case of sub-financing, immediate measures are needed. We have proposed an increase in the percentage of consular receipts. We have asked for not 60%, not 80%, the money that our diplomats can use so that they do not have to beg for the immediate needs of the Foreign Authorities, for example for the costs of a national holiday. That's the problem. But look at the contradiction. We are experts on fairs - we have a 'national festival' - and indifferent to the problems. We are bravely funding the anniversary for the two hundred years from the eruption of the Greek revolution, but we cannot - begging man in a capital abroad - only finance the modest celebration of 25 March in our embassies. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Madam President. I think I'll talk folk again, first you buy underwear and then tie. So let us celebrate the two hundred years with millions. Tragically, things are all about the problem, which we call subsecution. You're reducing organic positions. We have a hundred and twenty positions in the diplomats and even in the low grades. At the same time, when we reduce the number of diplomats, we increase the administrative and strategic units, the Coordination Service, the Directorate for Strategic and Operational Planning, the Centre for Foreign Policy Design, of course, alongside the service hierarchy. While we are reducing the number of soldiers, we are increasing the number of generals. What we had to avoid, that's exactly what you're doing. What else is that? That is exactly what is happening in Maximos. A multitude of generals, aggregation of officers, but when it rains no one wants to get wet. Why are you doing this? Mr Katrugalos told the committee that 'you are trying to apply the corset of the state of service to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs'. Another could use a term from the forensics of the late Gardika, "the relic of majesty". What else can be the decision to reduce the number of soldiers, while increasing the number of generals? Only the hill is missing from the hat you ordered for some.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u189	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u190	I think life will punish you hard with that. As you said, you will return to second phase and third phase. However, you will come back, because this bill is incomplete, incomplete. And the last one. We have heard that you are abrogating these positions because they were not covered anyway. That sounds like it. But this is the political thought of Nashredin Hodja. Nashredin wanted to teach his donkey not to eat. He did it. The moment he got it, just when he found out he didn't eat it, he died. What you don't use is not useless. It just proves your inability to use it. On some points one thinks that the author of the bill is joking. He has appointed a National Security Counsellor, but he has been responsible for National Security Counsellor. Full lack of proposal for a National Security Council. In order for the many people to understand the excellent sense of humour of your draft law, I must say that this is tantamount to defining the coach in a group that does not exist. For example, coach of the "Anarchical".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Colleague, I'm in a very difficult position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u192	I shall conclude, Madam President. I have two paragraphs. I've asked to know what the plight of the diplomatic staff is. I asked the exact wording of that. What's your bad luck, guys? Diplomatics, I asked. It wasn't hard to find the middle wise answer. The main issue is the salaries of internal officials, compensation for a foreign service, insurance cover, public relations funds. That's what they need backup. Comparatively we are at the last level between the countries of the old Europe. Do you know how much a diplomatic with forty years of service is? Somewhere at 1,800 euros. And we think of them as spablutes. Let these pay be compared, for example, to those of Cypriot diplomats. The conclusions are degrading. None of this is handled, Minister. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u193	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, time is seven minutes. We are not going to have any colleagues over it from here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u194	How much did I speak, Madam President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u195	You went to 11 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u196	I've never done it before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u197	I know. In order not to create tensions in the Chamber, there will be reasonable tolerance, but not more than a minute. This is final and irrevocable so that we don't fight from the Chair and you and I from the Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u198	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u199	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u200	I beg your pardon, Madam President, for half a minute, with full savings of time, because it is a question of principle that has been raised by my colleague for the articles. You are right, Mr Colleague, the articles were two hundred sixty-five, and they are four hundred eighty-eight. You will allow me to inform you - to God I do not ask you because you have not read the contents of the two hundred sixty-five, it was another procedure - that it is exactly the same content. It is only CENE that asked for a different internal distribution. Also, in terms of increasing addresses, you may not have noticed in advance again. The addresses are forty - eight and were sixty - five, the divisions are sixty - seven, and they were a hundred ninety - three, and the services, which come under the Minister, are twelve and nineteen. That means we want far fewer generals, colonists and so on. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kumucasakos has the floor from New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have seven minutes and one, not more. You, as a Member, already know how to shorten the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Madam President. As both the Foreign Minister and other speakers from the opposition parties have mentioned topical and current developments, I will also be allowed a very brief report. In front of us we have the expected sixty-second cycle of exploratory contacts. Today, as Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Tindemans, you have made an extremely interesting and straightforward statement. You said that dialogue was a tactic for tensions and does not heal the causes of tension. It is a very realistic and free from irresponsible over-optimism. We have sent the invitation to the next round and even to Athens, and so far we have taken NAVTEX, the ship of TSMEME, provocative statements and a large-scale military exercise of GALAZIA PATRIDA. We call, they challenge. And it is clear that in the end it is Turkey that is undermining the dialogue and undermining all its prospects. We remain cool, rightly cool, because coolness is an indication of self-confidence and power. But in the face of Ankara should not take temper as tolerance, because they are two completely different things. And there must be no forgetting in Ankara an old version of diplomats that the good diplomat, like the good Minister for Foreign Affairs, never loses his temper unless he decides he has to lose her. I now come to the legislative issue, which we are discussing. You will allow me a very general remark. All the actions of the state in our time have an international dimension and an aspect. Even the actions of the hard core of national sovereignty, defence - we are talking about defence diplomacy - internal security - we are talking about international police cooperation. The national and international dimensions, the internal and external dimensions of each State's action are inseparable and interconnected. That is why in recent years, with the evacuation of globalisation and the interdependence of states, we have been talking about economic diplomacy, public diplomacy, defence diplomacy, cultural diplomacy, religious diplomacy and parliamentary diplomacy. The President of the Greek Parliament has a diplomatic counsel and a diplomatic office, as is the case with many ministries. And the demands are growing, because the international dimension is everywhere. And it is no exaggeration to say - I would say that it can be heard as an exaggeration, but it does not really respond to the reality - that foreign policy and diplomacy are everywhere, in all the actions of the state, and that is even more true for states such as Greece, which are fully involved in international developments, in international organisations, in alliances, in regional forms of cooperation, in states where history and geography have forced them to manage and deal with extremely difficult issues, many times of vital national interests. All these developments along with the bragging technology bring the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its mission from a specific field of action - if that were the old logic - from the region of the state's actions to the centre, because all the actions of the state have an international aspect. Therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has not only an interoperable role to play in implementing the country's foreign policy, but also an effective role, as it must effectively coordinate all international aspects of the individual actions of the administration and the state. But it is not only an end in itself, it is also a productive ministry, because through the diplomatic service, through the country's external action, investment is attracted or supported and Greek entrepreneurship and economic interests promoted. So it's perfect, productive, and I'd say a multi-player ministry. Modern Foreign Ministries, as they aspire and must be the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, are finally, they are productive, they are multi-players ministries. Is he responding to these features, which the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should have today and the future of this legislation? That is the crucial question and we must put it on it. Let us leave the individual points, the individual demands for improvements, the welcome ones - and the way the Minister has reacted - and let us go to the great picture. Is he responding? My answer is 'yes', without that implying that it is a frozen picture of the role and mission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. That is why other developments will come and other improvements will come, because foreign policy is, above all, a dynamic policy. Is it introducing and institutionalising the necessary reforms? The answer is 'yes'. Centre for Foreign Policy Design, Defence diplomacy, Coordination Service - very important -, Data Protection Officer, New Education and Development of Human Resources, Offices of Greek Interests and of course an upgrade of diplomatic service with a new targeting, creating through education the new type of diplomat. I would call it - you will forgive me for the term, but I have not found someone better -'modern holistic diplomat', not only traditional foreign policy, but also economic, and cultural, and public diplomacy, a member of truly great potential and claims. That's why the D.C.'s got to go in. We don't have time to lose. These are very important issues and I believe that the Association of Diplomas and all the officials of the Ministry should, from now on, begin to study, possibly by external assistance, the Ministry of the Future, by now, the Digital Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that they do not again find themselves in a position to bring about later reform only trade union interests. From now on they have to deal with their own home, what role they will have and what role they will have. Two more points and I'll close with them. Nurses and schools. I supported them as a diplomat, I supported them as a member of the Diplomatic Association, and I support them today. Minister, you made a very positive move for hospitals and schools, but consider other improvements. And finally the budget: 288 million. For the Ministry I have described and the Ministry, which is preparing your legislation, this budget is unacceptable. Or we will go to a modern ministry, which will be perfect, which will be productive, which will be multi-played and which will have the necessary financial support, or else we will stay the same, despite what we are legislating today. The large organisation cannot be accompanied by a small budget and we must demand it because it is a national need. And one last point. You will allow me to read a paragraph from an important book, unforgettable until now, about the foreign diplomacy of the patriarch of Greek diplomacy, Byron Theodoropoulos. Written by Theodoropoulos, "This differs from foreign policy: Foreign policy refers to the general nature and nature of relations with the rest of the world. That is why it must have - and it must have - more permanent, long-term objectives, even if they are subject to changes. However, these changes are normally carried out at slow pace and relatively thin intervals. On the contrary, diplomacy is found almost daily in the need to shave, move, handle matters in ways different each time, depending on the circumstances." Why do I mention this section from this book by Byron Theodoropoulos? Because I believe that the structure of the Ministry should be able to adapt to developments in a flexible way, and that can be done at a later stage, with government decisions and not with the heavy procedure of the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u203	Mr. Comrade, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u204	I'll be right back. For reasons of record, if you wish, to remain in the Minutes of this House, even though I understand that there are many reasons why it cannot be adopted at the moment, I restore my proposal to rename the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and European Affairs. I think that it fully responds to the nature of the Ministry but also to the long-term, close, close relationship between Greece and the European Union. For us Europe is not abroad, it is part of our daily policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too. I will repeat, ladies and gentlemen, because I do not want to cause a problem from the Chair, that the minutes of your speech are seven, with the relative tolerance. Because it is a very large number of colleagues, who must speak and if we go by this process to speak for each of us more than eleven minutes, we will never end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u206	What time are we gonna finish?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u207	I don't know, Mr. Colleague, I honestly tell you. Approximately 2 p.m. I count.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u208	About 22:00?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u209	Uh, the way we go. The way we go, we'll never be able to finish. Please, because I don't want to fight. Your time is seven minutes. Build your speech that way. You have the way, I think, each of you find the main points. We have had four days in committee, so much debated the main points, let us discuss them. Mr Vésyropoulos has the floor now, so that he can put himself on the amendment that he has already tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taken the floor to refer to the content of the amendment with a general number of 765 and a number of six, tabled by the Ministry of Finance. The emergency situations urge us to update measures to support the real economy or to take new measures aimed at alleviating sectors and professionals affected. The first article of the amendment deals with the problem, which is on the market. In particular, a suspension of seventy-five days from the expiry date shall be established for those securities which appear for payment from 1 March 2021 and 31 March 2021. The measure concerns undertakings affected by the effects of the pandemic or is to be suspended on a state-owned basis. In the category of firms affected, enterprises showing a reduced turnover in the period October to December 2020 include more than 40% of the turnover of the corresponding period of 2019. From there on, there are favourable regulations and support measures for securities bearers in the same article. In particular, they shall be extended until 30 June, first to the payment of the VAT credited to the WIPO and to the auditing centres, which expired or expired on 1 February 2021 until 28 February 2021, second to the deadlines for the payment of VAT certified to the WIPO and to the auditing centres on the basis of short-term VAT declarations, with the final date of submission of 28 February 2021 and 31 March 2021. At the same time, for securities bearers, there is yet another favourable regulation. It is foreseen that they will not be entered in financial behaviour data files such as the ‘TILISIA’ database if they have proven repayment within seventy-five days of the sealing or termination of securities which are due and for which a failure of payment has been established or is to be established by the payer from 1 March 2021 to 31 March 2021. The second article of the amendment contains a regulation aimed at supporting a sector which has been particularly affected by the effects of the pandemic on the economy and on tourism. I am referring to the owners of tourist buses. This arrangement reduces the traffic charges for tourist buses for the year 2021. This is a significant reduction, since for the category of tourist buses up to forty places, traffic charges are falling from EUR 430 to EUR 215, while for the category of tourist buses forty-one and over traffic charges are falling from EUR 595 to EUR 300. In fact, the refund for 2021 is exceptionally foreseen for those who have paid fees with the previous regulatory framework. Article 3 of the amendment provides that the amounts granted as compensation for the renting of tourist accommodation in order to stay temporarily natural persons, and exclusively in the context of the treatment of the pandemic, are duty-free, unrestricted and incompatible with the hands of the public or third parties. They are not subject to any reservation, fee or contribution, they are not bound and are not offset by certain debts to the tax administration and the public. Unique exemption for late payments to tax administration and insurance funds which have not been subject to a partial arrangement or to a procedurally validated resolution agreement. The same benefit applies to the amounts of the exceptional subsidy granted as compensation to the companies "KELS S.A." and "TRAINOSE S.A.", to the tourist operators of road transport, as well as to the tourist agencies that they have and have put into circulation special public tourist buses. Another substantial measure to facilitate these enterprises is the abolition of the requirement of a partial debt regime for the certified debts to the tax administration and the insurance funds in order to speed up the process of paying the compensation to TRAINOSE, the ‘CEL’ and the public tourist buses. Finally, the last article of the amendment extends the entry into force of taxation per gaming card, which would apply on 1 March. The new power time is 1 July and this extension is necessary in order to give the necessary and time to companies active in the gaming industry to adapt their information systems to the new way of taxing columns of gambling. Ladies and gentlemen, increasing the rate of vaccination brings return to normality increasingly closer. In time, however, the government will continue to support the real economy, all those affected and need support. Some may have invested and continue to invest in destruction. The citizens, however, have a different view. They appreciate the effort of the government and Prime Minister Mitsotakis. They realise that there is a government that operates in the most difficult and unfavourable conditions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u212	Madam President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u213	Would you like to ask a question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u214	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u215	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u216	Minister, if I understood correctly, you are giving a seventy-day suspension to the notebooks on the basis of the turnover of October, November and December. Right? The problem, however, has a lot of businesses with the farce in January and February, which most of them are closed and do not have the opportunity to pay the cheques. The criterion you give is, in my view, wrong. We should at least extend or find another criterion involving these companies. It's unfair. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u217	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u218	Mr Colleague, this period was chosen in October, December. Do not forget that in November and December all these operations were closed with a state mandate. So we're talking about the same time. The amendment was tabled in mid-February. It wasn't the month of February to talk about this data here. When the time comes, we'll see to it for that time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u219	Me too, Minister. He now has the floor, Mr Kontozamanis, to place himself on the amendment tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Madam President. I would like to support Article 1 of the amendment with a general number of 766 and a special 7. In fact, it relates to arrangements for the management of the pandemic, the coronary. The contents of the article relate to the extension of specific articles dealing with the treatment of pandemic, such as: The possibility of checks, rapid diagnostic methods at regular intervals, to supervised bodies from different ministries. The extension of health coverage of uninsured and vulnerable social groups. The extension of the possibility of the Institute for Pharmaceutical Research and Technology to conclude contracts. The opportunity for the Secretary-General of Health Services to move staff to meet needs, especially in affected areas. The extension of the possibility of compulsory disposal of spaces to cover emergency public health needs by the spread of the coronary. The possibility of making facilities, chambers, beds of simple hospitalization, beds of increased care and intensive treatment in the public and so on. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Minister. Mr Bukoros, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, now has the floor. Six minutes you asked for me, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u222	Madam President, thank you. I won't need six minutes, because in the course of the debate, Mr. Ploris will replace me, so...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u223	I'll put you six minutes and if you don't use the time, Mr. Plearis will take him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u224	Yes, that Mr. Ploris may make use of the rest of the year. There is no doubt that the bill today, important for the Ministry itself, for the representation of the country itself. I will not dwell on the new establishment plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, nor on the structure of services, or on budgetary issues, Madam President, because it has been analysed by both the Minister, Mr Dendias, and by our rapporteur, Mr Bogdanos. I will only comment on two points of the bill, which I think are of great importance to Greece, its representation and the Greekism in general. I will also take advantage of the presence of the Deputy Minister of Deputies of Hellenism here, Mr. Konstantinos Vlasi, in order to begin the anticipation of the reopening, re-establishment, re-activation of the Council of Undemocratic Hellenism. We all say that there is one Greece within the territory and another Greece outside. And that is what the bill is doing today, that is to say, the government's expressed desire for a new approach, for cooperation, for the common course with the democratic Greeks, a expressed will, Madam President, which, if you like, took flesh and bones with the right of the deceased Greeks to participate in our national elections. As a follow-up, then, there is the reopening of the CSCE. The mission of the Board of Deputies of Hellenism is to be the advisory body of the Greek state in matters relating to democratic and homogenous Hellenism. And, of course, some of its main aims are knowledge, preservation and promotion of the Greek language, Greek culture and phillinism, care, promotion and exploitation of the Greeks who live and work outside the territory. These figures alone show, also show the importance of the Council of Democrat Hellenism. If we now take into account that the Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic is also being strengthened within the framework of the current bill, then we understand that for this crucial issue for Greece, for this use of the great power of Hellenism that lives and works and creates outside the territory, there is a structured policy. I would like to close by making a reference to a matter of great importance. For decades, it has been said that the efforts, but even the wars of the nations, have become marketplaced. Diplomatic efforts, however, and the 'diplomatic' wars must also converge to this objective. And we have with today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, a new General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extrovert, what is the point. What do we have in simple words? We have a secretariat, which is integrated into the body of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order, on the one hand, to facilitate the attraction of investments and, on the other, to strengthen efforts to increase Greek exports. This is the case with the incorporation of two former secretariats of the Ministries of Development and Finance. And we are talking about the "Greek Investment Company and Foreign Trade S.A." and the Export Credit Insurance Agency. Some secretaries from financial ministries are now incorporated into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And this shows the government's will for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to play a very important role in the question of the extroversion of the Greek economy. And, as I said before, this is done in two pillars: trying to attract foreign investments and trying to strengthen Greek exports. We believe that the new Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extroverty will be strengthened by integrating the Ministry of Foreign Affairs more than the 'ENTERPRISE GREECE', which has already taken some initial steps and looks into files of large foreign direct investment and smaller, several hundred million. And it is now time, ladies and gentlemen, for this bill to be passed, for this new Secretariat of International Economic Relations to be incorporated into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that every interested investor, smaller or larger, can find a ground still from the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' Office in cooperation with ENTERPRISE GREECE, so that it can go beyond the process of investing in Greece even before the procedures for the legislative framework are started, for possible bureaucratic problems, so that there is a pre-process and a fertile territory for the reception of these investments. As far as the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the new secretariat in promoting exports is concerned, there is no need to talk about it. So I am staying on these two points of the bill - and so I am closing, Madam President - the strengthening of the democratic Hellenism with the reopening of the CSCE and the strengthening of the Secretariat of the Greek Presidency. And I am absolutely certain that the Minister responsible, Mr Vlassis, in the direction of Mr Twelfths, will fully cope with this part. And no matter how much the pandemic has blocked cultivation with the Greeks abroad, with the diverse and homogenous Hellenism, with the end of the pandemic we will win the lost ground. And I would like to stress - and I am pleased with all of us - that this new Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extrovert, because this is also what is being called for at this juncture and, more generally, for Greece to increase investment in the internal market, attract investment and increase exports. Only in this way will we finally leave behind the results and imprints of the long economic crisis, but also the consequences that the last pandemic has left behind. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u225	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u226	Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with two comments, on the way in which you legislate on a major bill concerning the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, its body. We will also have amendments relating to tourist buses, to transport and to other issues which are very serious, because social and economic problems are caused by the pandemic, but unfortunately the government in the fragmentary way it deals with them brings amendments to the Foreign Ministry's bill on matters that should already be solved in a different way. It's a positive arrangement. We say from the outset that we will vote on all three amendments, although the fact that the committees have not debated them in principle has made them incomplete. The second comment concerns the debate on the amendment this morning. I think it is a serious matter, but on a much more serious issue with regard to the legislative and legislative titles, it has not been properly handled by the Bureau in the first place and the debate we had in the Conference of Presidents has not been taken into account or, as has been said, it has not been presented, so that time has been shaken and that it is not coming out. I'm coming to the bill. The pandemic as a health and economic crisis has accelerating worldwide the changes of political data and in particular calls for the strengthening of global cooperation, the reintroduction of man and his environment at the heart of policies, as well as the need for effective governance systems. This is particularly true of the European Union. In the changing context of international relations, the Greek foreign policy must respond to its task of defending national interests, defending national independence. And this can only be done in a single way, with an effective multi-dimensional foreign policy, by exploiting international and European alliances, but also by concluding new ones and, of course, by a national strategy that involves both strengthening the country's deterrent power. The leading example of a successful foreign policy, the accession of Cyprus to the European Union, is something that can be repeated with dozens of issues that have been of concern to us for years. However, the primary condition is that there should be an effective foreign ministry in its organisation, in terms of its structure, ultimately, flexible, effective. It is clear that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, despite the ambitious efforts that have been made, has not escaped the absurdity of the so-called state of service, which is concentrating not only the powers but also the functions, making the government ineffective, but also the administration more generally. With the bill of four hundred and eighty so many articles - many! - most of which are repetitive, changes are being promoted to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is supposed to be the subject of a presidential decree, and the substance is not sufficient and is not in line with the new circumstances described previously and with increased national needs. Minimum innovations, a few modernisations, no reform, current deregulations in functions and, of course, recycling problems. And ultimately, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not become a modern and final structure for foreign policy planning and exercise. Although individual articles may have this characteristic, in total there is no such effect. In particular, the incorporation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' organogram into law is incomprehensible and bureaucratic regulation that will cause dyskinesia and requires time to implement other arrangements. Secondly, the role of the Ministry's Secretary-General is not strengthened, which is the Ministry's institutional memory. Many, in fact, have spoken of a State Secretary who must exist. On the contrary, it is loaded with additional administrative responsibilities, making it impossible to exercise its coordinating role. At the same time, the Government does not accept the reform proposal, as I have said, as a State Secretary for State aid. It is not guaranteed and nothing is foreseen for the recovery of resources rather than for the consumption of resources. It is not the question of using the resources that it cannot consume, but of making use of them. The institutional tools, diplomats and services are missing. They cannot exercise their duties flexibly because they lack such modern tools and capabilities. Organic positions are being reduced, and of course, they never covered the papers, but the signal the foreign ministry's political leadership is that we do not need others. 2020 did not introduce new diplomas into the academy. But a lot of people are retired and not replaced. That's a problem. There is nothing for the insurance coverage of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the countries of the European Union. But he's improved, he's incomplete. The General Secretariat of European Affairs is hereby repealed. You have not placed a Secretary-General and you are now abolishing the Coordinating Directorate for European Affairs, which falls within other competent ministries. One must do that and there must be a service structure. And as far as the Directorate of China is concerned, is it possible, global power, developments, a dominant role in the years to come and do not have the corresponding address? Co-ordinate the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic with the General Secretariat of Public Diplomacy. I think it is a pity for the deportees, the organised community has strongly protested to the Prime Minister, we denounced it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Give me some more time, Madam President, and I will finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u227	Just a minute, Mr. Comrade, more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Madam President. We from our government mandate and experience, but today we not only recognise the national value of the networks, but we consider that the national superpower of Hellenism of the Diaspora is not exploited and is not part of the national strategy. It could, in fact, be a 'bridge' between Greece and the countries where the family is and, of course, a global force. It is planned that the Council should be reopened by Presidential Hellenism, which the government 'was holding in the fridge', which is first positive and which we will vote on. But you do so in such a dreadful way and with the look rather in the next elections, without a trace of vision, handsome and fragmented. Eliminate the regional councils and denounce the Council's base from the Greek Democratic Republic. The official languages of the UN, Spanish, Arabic, Russian and Chinese are removed. If that's possible! From the National School of Public Administration and Administration as the second language of choice, along with the French or German, the Spanish have been proposed. No way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u229	Mr. Colleague, please, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u230	And I'm ending up with the matter of sixty-five and sixty-seven years. The Minister's insistence is unexplained, because all the public and private sectors are saying that we should go to sixty-seven, and this is where he wants to make early retirement. Let him make early retirement if he wants. However, the limit must be at sixty-seven years. Finally, with regard to the issue of the National Security Council that has been raised, it is open to us. It is a given need to discuss it. Of course, if there was a will from the government, it might have gone ahead. But instead of establishing a Security Council, we have a security counselor, appointing a security counselor. It is the concept of the "final" state. At least now accept our proposal and ensure the participation of the Minister of National Defence at meetings of the National Foreign Policy Council. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now Mrs Kefaliannis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u232	Ladies and gentlemen, complex international reality, as it is currently forming, requires adaptation by strategic moves, requires those key choices that will work effectively to address the major heterogeneous challenges of the future. The unprecedented health crisis changed global health and safety data and highlighted the need to move to new sustainable economic models. Climate change, which is also linked to modern energy policies, shifts geopolitical interest. All of this, together with Turkey's constant and provocative review, sets new priorities and makes the role of foreign policy even more decisive. Greece must with every opportunity to modernise and strengthen the most important means of exercising its soft power, the Greek diplomacy. Today's bill introduces institutional areas that serve the need to strengthen our international position in a uniform, extroverted and flexible way. It broadens economic diplomacy, incorporates public diplomacy and democrat Greekism at the heart of foreign policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is taking a big step. It is adapted to the collective global challenges with an open and multilateral diplomacy vehicle. It aims to develop economic diplomacy in everything concerning the country's economic extremism, namely to strengthen and defend Greek economic and commercial interests abroad. For the implementation of this mission, it is important to provide for the drafting of the national strategic extroversion plan, as is important to provide for the coordination of ministries and cooperation between the public and private sectors and all the factors making up the country's international image. At the same time, the new organisation intends to highlight and promote the role of communication in building the country's international image, which is the future of modern diplomacy, particularly in the current context of the technological explosion in the world of communication, information and information. A new strong General Secretariat, therefore, is being created, a complex sector that coordinates and implements all functions and actions in matters of consular, religious, cultural and foreign culture and internally upgraded, uniform and effective. At the same time, the role of the democratic Hellenism and the homosexuality is strengthened. Strengthening relations with the Greeks of Diaspora is a strategic choice of the government, as has already emerged with the question of the vote of Greeks abroad. The policy of democratic Hellenism needs to be strengthened. The Greek community is a very important chapter for our country, a chapter that needs to be upgraded through coherent actions that will serve the needs of the family more effectively, especially in cultural and educational issues. Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that the financial means for this ambitious project are not satisfactory. It is something that has emerged unanimously in the drafting of the bill in the relevant Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs of the House. We know that Greece is a country affected, both because of the exceptional economic conditions that pandemic brings, as well as because of the echo of the decade of the financial crisis that we left behind. For this reason, at the heart of the reformist effort is the human resources of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which first of all raises the burden and responsibility of defending our national interests and is called upon to face up to many times to the diverse challenges of the times. That is why it needs to be, and indeed it is, of increased formal, but also of substantial qualifications. The Greek diplomats are also the most important chapter in the exercise of Greek foreign policy. It is important that this project has emerged and should be heard the individual needs to support their work, as is primarily the issue of full and horizontal coverage of the hospitals and then the issue of the teachers of the children. This should continue to be the subject of the Ministry's leadership, as should issues of equal service. Of course, there is an important part in the development of all the Ministry's human resources is education. In this direction, it is very right to establish a Directorate for Education and Development of Human Resources. Other reforms are also needed, such as the reorganisation of the Diplomatic Academy, the restructuring of diplomatic authorities abroad, the reform of the course of study and the teaching method, as is, of course, the digital transformation of the Ministry that must continue. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is building a step, step by step, its multifaceted strategic role. It broadens its strategic alliances and strengthens its position within NATO and the European Union, but also develops its cooperation with multilateral regional patterns. As a peacekeeping force it throws bridges between the Balkans and the rest of Europe, between the eastern Mediterranean and the unstable Gulf region. It closes loose ends and opens the way for consultation and dialogue. It is an important factor in promoting Europe's energy and individual economic interests. It is an impediment to extremism, violence and illegality, the illegality of Turkish reform and the absurd claims it faces on a daily basis. In these challenges, our country must continue to respond decisively by activated all its diplomatic potential. It will make a crucial contribution to achieving peace and prosperity by means of an economy, energy, security, culture. It must continue to be a regional force, which imposes respect for international law, human rights and democratic dialogue. With this in mind and with regard to the new cross-border challenges, the country needs a strong, coherent and modern foreign policy with open and extroverted diplomacy. Today's bill is part of this strategic effort to open up new paths of peace and prosperity. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u233	I too, my colleague, for respecting the time. Mr. Michaelides has the floor for seven minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u234	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that in today's draft law between the four hundred eighty articles, which contains positive or unequivocal provisions, as we have already pointed out as a party in the committee's meetings, but also provisions on which we stand negatively for a number of reasons that we have explained. Moreover, there are some pre-existing options, as well as some significant omissions which weaken any positive sign of this bill. As far as the existing options are concerned, I am thinking above all of the Ministry's budget, 288 million, which is absolutely inadequate, which was pointed out by all the political parties and representatives of the Ministry. And let me point out here that the excuse put forward by the Minister for not absorbing this budget is, I think, disappointing. This is an important structural restriction which, through administrative restructuring or other tactics, has specific limits. With regard to the omissions I have mentioned, for example, I note the non-institutionalisation of the National Security Council, a body of strategic and advisory nature which will form proposals and positions on security issues and will be an institutional channel between the Foreign and Defence Ministries. Obviously, this need is not served satisfactorily with the Office of Defensive Diplomacy established by Article 70, nor with the existence of a National Security Council which has been lately signed a year ago in the newspaper 'KATHMERINA' on 13 January 2020, arguing in favour of the establishment of the National Security Council. Let me also mention the establishment of a foreign policy planning centre, as described in Articles 37 to 43. The existence of a research and analysis body could be positive. However, the image of a structure which is directly subject to the Minister's administration and external service is given. The absence of any anticipation of synergy with the relevant departments and officials of the Ministry, diplomats and experts, can ultimately lead to either the centre gaining excessive and informal influence or any proposals and contributions of the Ministry to be disreputed. I'm going to say two words about the popular Hellenism. Reintroduction of the EES, as provided for in Articles 452 and 457, is undoubtedly an essential step in order to achieve effective implementation at last of the constitutional requirement for the functioning of this institution. But we are clearly negative about the degradation of the object, which is about the Greeks of the diaspora through the abolition of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic and its integration with the subject of public diplomacy. First of all, there are questions which have also been raised by the New Democracy itself as to whether the coexistence of these two objects under a common administrative framework would be fertile. The coating fields and the possibilities for synergies between the two objects are not sufficiently described or very strong. Apart from these questions of rational service structure, the fact that the area of de-democratic Hellenism is downgraded at the general address means obviously contradictory that not only the promotion of the ASE, but also the more general enhancement of the role of dispersal through last year's law to determine the right to vote in the national elections for the displaced Greeks, which was voted by a broader majority, and these initiatives are obviously undermined by the deterioration that I mentioned above. Finally, let me refer to the obvious deterioration of church diplomacy, which we consider to be an extremely negative development as reflected in the draft law that we are debating. My term of office for two periods as Secretary-General of the Interparliamentary Assembly of Orthodoxy allowed me to understand in the clearest terms the importance that other countries attach to church and religious diplomacy. Mr President-in-Office knows that very well. The incapacitation of our relations with Greek-Orthodox patriarchies is known and this situation requires a special diplomatic chapter to restore it. Unfortunately, this is not recorded in this draft law. It seems that this is another completely lost opportunity for a genuinely bold legislature by the Government of New Democracy. Let me conclude by mentioning the two conferences in Athens which, on the initiative of the Greek Ministry of Foreign Affairs, took place on our own initiative and, unfortunately, have no follow-up, as well as the conference on the principles of church and religious diplomacy, which was also held after two years of the last conference. I think that these are initiatives which, Minister, should absolutely continue because they were of great importance and useful. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is a fact that the continuing rotation and diversification of the international environment, together with the technological achievements and the new association of forces, developed, form a completely different international scene. The challenges that our country, as well as our Government, have to face within the range of the horn pandemic, are growing at geopolitical level in the international stage and in international diplomacy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is invited to implement our vision at international level to upgrade our country's international position to promote the Greek spirit and, of course, to serve our national interests. So we must not ask ourselves what kind of organisation the Ministry should have to face any challenges that exist either in the years that we live or in the future on the best possible terms. Does modern Greek diplomacy need to be reviewed in terms of its structures, but also in order to be able to serve its objective and purpose in the best possible terms? So we are now legislating in response to the reclassifications that are taking place on the international stage. Thus, for the first time, we incorporate economic diplomacy, public diplomacy, from democrat Hellenism, this huge capital of our nation, at the core of the activities of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, in order to be more effective and more essential to the exercise of their function. Because when we talk about economic diplomacy and extroversion, it is understandable and natural that these structures should be under the same roof and that is the home of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Most people believe that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs only exercises political diplomacy, but it is clear that there is defence, economic, religious, cultural - and here you will remember that in a recent bill by the Ministry of Culture we have passed the possibility of Greek exhibits going to museums abroad, thus highlighting cultural diplomacy - the athletic diplomacy, the scientific diplomacy that all together compose Greek national diplomacy. Here to agree and recognise that in the last fourteen years there has been no reform in this ministry. It is well known that in many countries, economic diplomacy has been developed strongly and integrated into foreign policy. And when we see that this project results, as in the case of the Netherlands, then should we not think about it? As the Minister said during the debate on the bill in committees, intelligent policy is politics, which can and does copy successful political practices. Here I should like to point out that our country, Greece, has also been dynamically involved in the energy aspect with its strategic aim of becoming an energy hub at a time when natural resources are falling and at the same time, the role of renewable energy is growing. As a government we have so far shown our full support and faith in our relatives, in the Greeks living off the earth, with the rulership of the law that we passed for the vote of the homosexuals who bring the Greeks who live anywhere near the motherland. Family for us, for the New Democracy, is an ally and supporter of our foreign policy. We are aiming at a global network of expression and exploitation and representation of the dead Greeks. The Greeks, who are everywhere in the world, need and need to be activated to support, promote, integrate, in the societies that live in Greek entrepreneurship, tourism, culture, education, health and, of course, our foreign policy. That is why we want to coordinate all these actions within a Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, which will serve the needs of the Greeks in consular, religious, cultural and cultural issues, while at the same time promoting the international image of our country. We are also aiming at the reopening of the Board of Deputies of Hellenism to be an advisory body for homosexual Hellenism. As a government, we want to create a multi-powered structure that combines our policy to improve and promote our country's image abroad, love and care for the issues of deprivation, as well as to exploit the unstable potential of the Greeks. It is an opportunity and challenge for us with the celebration of the two hundred years from the modern Greek state, since the Greek Revolution of 1821 to show all over the world and with the participation of the homosexuals what our country has achieved so far in these years of independence and to spread our language, our traditions, our culture. Ladies and gentlemen, in a highly competitive and volatile environment, when a targeted and effective strategy is being pursued, not only impressions are won, but also the essence of the international community and national interests are promoted. The moments we are facing are crucial, but the strategic promotion of our country's comparative advantages in all areas is the one that will be the strong weapon in the hands of our Government, because we have demonstrated all this time that we are the government that adapts rapidly and flexibly to the new reality and serves national interests as best possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u237	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The reason for this is that Mr Practicalis from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u238	Madam President, thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, for a week now, our country has been in a real standstill because of a disastrous criminal situation which has shocked public opinion. Criminal investigation is an exclusive responsibility for justice in which we trust. The answer to the current juncture should not be the introversion and criminalisation of public life, but the working commitment to solving the country's problems. Unemployment, pandemic, economy, Turkish provocation do not raise conditions of popular courts and extremism. And now on the subject. Faced with complex security challenges and geostrategic developments, a dynamic and active foreign policy is needed, such as the one that our Government has successfully implemented. Exemplaryly committed to the requirements of international law and good neighbourly rules strengthens its regional alliances, as well as the deterrent and national strength of the country. Towards the continuous strengthening of its international position, this legislative initiative, which modernises, rationalises and upgrades in a uniform way and overall the structure and functions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, creating an effective mechanism constrained by bureaucratic strangles of the past, which will promote national interests. The integration of economic diplomacy at the centre of operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is extremely important. In particular, through the operation of the General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extroverty, emphasis is placed on promoting the country's international image, which comes to a lighthouse of democracy and a brilliant culture with unique products bearing the Greek stamp. Mr President, we welcome the fact that you have accepted requests from economic and commercial affairs officials in relation to the diplomatic sector in terms of their retirement after the completion of thirty-five years. You gave the opportunity to worthy officials of the Greek state to work for another two years. A second look, Minister, would be useful for both of the three officials of the former Council of Deputies of Hellenism. I know these people, because I have worked with them in the past as a Sectorist from the Greek Republic of New Democracy at the time of the opposition years. At the same time, there is provision for taking advantage of the reverend Hellenism, which is also a mission of the Greek state. In particular, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is structured in three organisational pillars: international relations, economic relations and extroversion, as well as the issues of democratic Hellenism and public diplomacy. Deputy Hellenism, Mr. Undersecretary, is the most important chapter of our public and international diplomacy. The World Parliamentary Association of Hellenism, the well-known PDPEU, is the spearhead of the Greeks, because about three hundred MPs and senators, members of the Union, decorating parliamentary institutions in some twenty two countries of the world. I would like to thank the President-in-Office of the Council for his honourary visit, which was their first trip to a provincial and notorious prefecture. In December 2018, ladies and gentlemen, they made a three-day visit to my home country, Evros, leaving a good fragrance and an indelible print. The new organizational structure marks the resumption of a coherent policy for the Greeks of the world. These are people who have emigrated over the years around the world. However, I do not forget that in the last forty-five years our Evros people have gone to Western Europe, who, however, have not forgotten the mother home. They often visit our homeland, their homeland, such as our prefecture, live in it and feed the local economy. In fact, they have recently intervened in Parliament by transferring their serious concern. I tabled a written question to the Ministry of Health on the planning of vaccination of Greek non-residents of AMKA who are currently in our country. I am sure the government will shortly avoid unequal vaccination treatment and take care of it. The decision to set up the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic and the Public Diplomacy contributes to the strengthening of the role of universal Hellenism, as it is necessary to coordinate and implement the actions and functions which serve the needs of the family, especially in matters of cultural and cultural affairs. At the same time, the reopening of the Council by the Presidential Hellenism is of particular importance, but also symbolism. This is an institution, which can and must express the dynamics of universal Hellenism, strengthening the voice of our relatives and our aberrations, at a time when our country is threatened by the aggressive, illegal policy of the neighbour and the increased influx of economic migrants in Evros, the islands and the inland, in breach of the Greek law. Our homeland needs to strengthen its ties with the unscrupulous Greeks. A living example of the vote of Greeks abroad - as I have, over time, supported, with all the posts - that are magnifying abroad and benefiting the country and who can act as ambassadors to our country abroad and be sick on our national issues, helping to make economic corrections for our country and developing the idea of single universal Hellenism. So let us take advantage of the years to come, so that by working hard and methodically, with the national interest, Hellenism - both Greek and Greek - can make a new and hopeful start. Hellenism is great. It operates, attempts and expresses itself with two modern state entities within the European Union, with Greece and the martyr Cyprus that have territory, borders and substance, as foreseen by domestic and international law. Wait, ladies and gentlemen, and I close, Madam President, in front of the geographical map and place the lighthouses of the two states, including the territorial waters, the continental shelf and the Exclusive Economic Zones, the well-known AEZ. You'll be glad, you'll feel proud, but also responsibilities. There is another "state entity" of ecumenical Hellenism, ready to take important initiatives at the appropriate historic time. That is what we have to do and prepare in the context of globalisation, to strengthen it in these, which also unite us with a vision, but also with this law that is an important step, and that is why I am voting for it. Thank you for your attention. Madam President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Dimitrios Ciridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the new Foreign Ministry regulation here. Let me make three preliminary remarks. The first has to do with the critical time-consuming issues, with the Greek-Turkish relations, which are once again in the news. I think that any fair, objective observer, Minister, would agree with the conclusion that the management of Greek-Turkish confrontation, which began at this time, particularly in Evros a year ago and continued at sea by 2020 until now, was - objectively speaking - exemplary. I think that this is recognised both internally - if you read the polls, but also the press - and also the foreign press, and it is a positive sign in addition to the multiple crises, which the new Greek Government has been asked to face in the year and a half that is now in power, whether it is called a pandemic or a financial crisis. But on the outside, I think that we have done very well, without calming and without of course taking our minds. To be fair, I would tell you what I said to the committee as a whole about our diplomatic effort, how they see it from the outside at least. You referred to how others see us and how important it is to what others see us and because I have devoted my life to the past twenty-five - thirty years in studying, among others, and how others see us, I dare say that others are really jealous of Greek foreign policy. I am thinking of the Turks, our neighbours in the Balkans, all over the region, with all the shortcomings, problems, the challenges one can discuss. It is good to recognise that, because sometimes in the public debate in our country there is a zeroing that we are doing everything wrong and others are doing everything right. It is worth the trouble of opening the flashlight and saying that others at least - with what that means, it does not mean that they are 100% right - believe that we are doing everything well, very well, not only today but also before, to be fair with previous governments. Thirdly, I would go a step further than what the good and experienced colleague George Koumoutsas told us about today's globalisation, about how critical foreign policy is today and I would say, by reminiscent of the progress of the newest Greek state by its establishment, especially today, which is to be completed for two hundred years from the eruption of the great Greek Revolution of 1821, that we have done well on the outside, and that the course of the Greek state, the Greek nation as a whole, has depended on a great extent on the external and the ability of Greece and the representatives of the Greek leadership to associate Greek interests with the interests of other powerful forces in the region, in order to serve them better. This is how the Greek Revolution of 1821 - we all know - ultimately and we led to the happy result of the establishment for the first time in the region of the Eastern Mediterranean and Southeast Europe, the first national state, a democratic free state coming out of the then Ottoman Empire. This is how Greece has achieved the various great triumphs, with the first and last of all, of course, what we are celebrating again this year, over the 40 years since our accession and participation in the European Union. Whenever Greece failed on the outside, it paid too much. Whenever it was isolated and failed to capture its own interests with the interests of other powerful, as isolated by ‘74 or ‘22 or 1897, the nation paid a heavy price. So, especially for Greece, foreign policy is a crucial factor in national prosperity and progress, more than I would say from other states, which have happyd to be in safer and more stable geostrategic environments, such as the ones in northern and western Europe. These three preliminary remarks I think are crucial. As we have said in committee, the draft law introduces basic reforms that are essential at present. It primarily modernises and rationalizes the exercise of economic diplomacy, which is the great aim of the modern era of globalisation. In other countries, as I have said in committee, economic diplomacy is 90% of the diplomatic effort, for example in the model that has been consulted in the past and from which we have learned some lessons, the Netherlands, but also many other countries in northern Europe. Of course, we do not have the luxury of giving 90% of the effort, precisely because we have open geostrategic issues, particularly with our poor eastern neighbours, but we certainly need to speed up the area of economic diplomacy, which is so critical. The second thing we need to do is about the democratic Hellenism, the wealth that our country has, which other peoples or peoples do not have in our region. The Greek nation is excellently diagnosing. We should not just say that and swear on the virtues and wealth of dispersion, which I have said in committee. It is something that should go through public policy as a whole and act at all levels. If something has described our relationship with the family - I have to say, Minister - it is hypocrisy. Because, at the same time as we swear to its virtues and its strength, at the same time, an occupant "kojabasism" from the establishment of our state does not want the family on the feet of the domestic elite often, as has been shown, of course, in the famous case of the councils of the Greek universities introduced by the 2011 law, to help the Greek foreign scientists to upgrade the Greek university. They were persecuted, dispersed, humiliated by the Greeks "kojabassides" of a reactionary domestic state and politically covering them. I'm grading to the left and not random. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So in both education and culture and the economy and in a number of issues, not only in national matters, we need to find ways to involve the homogeneity and the new dispersion that we have created in the crisis after 2010 in order to use and exploit this wealth. We have taken a step with the vote of the Greeks abroad, for example. Another measure which the 'kojabasides' fought in the interior. I'm ending with public diplomacy. We need to take care of her. It is not a passive one, it is not a secondary one in today's era of public opinion democracy how we systematically influence, not on time, not just on the basis of a crisis. We must have a presence in the international media, as Turkey does very much - and you know it very well - on the Internet, in the large newspapers abroad, in Europe, in America and elsewhere, where this open game is played, which is now escaping from the traditional role of diplomats. The diplomats once made their own foreign policy and, as you know, in the theory diplomacy is considered the last fort of the old aristocracy, the last fort of public policy democratised. But today diplomacy has also been demobilised and is being made public and we need to invest the resources, beyond the tools you are building, in order to move on. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u241	Mr Burnos has the floor, and immediately thereafter the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u242	It is known that this bill is based on what the SYRIZA government had prepared. It had been understood since then that we need a new organisation to reorganise and modernise the structures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We need a Foreign Ministry, which can serve an active and multidimensional foreign policy, which is able to see the modern multipolar world as it is, a world of emerging power centres and serious displacements and reclassifications in the international economy and geopolitics, shifts that have, moreover, been confirmed in the recent management of the pandemic, when Eastern Asia faced the pandemic with exemplary commitment to science and much greater efficiency in health and economics. Consequently, a diplomacy focused on the old Western world, where traditional references and dependencies of the country were identified and some elites, namely the United States of America and some major European powers, are simply not enough for Greece anymore. How rather when challenges today, climate change, fourth industrial revolution, world poverty and destabilisation, linked to migration and refugee flows, all involve poles of geopolitical and economic power out of control or even reduced control of both Europe and the United States. In particular, the refugee flows have become such a crucial and unresolved issue for our country which would dictate a more enhanced presence in their countries of origin. Obviously, we all agree on that. Show money! We spend too little on the State Department. But I will point out, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that while you have found more easily and quickly money - and indeed a lot of money - for the defence expenditure, you cannot even raise the foreign ministry's budget by a few million, so that it can gradually reach a level which can bring foreign policy to the place necessary for the country and its security. Diplomacy is also a key factor in national security and serves equally the strategic doctrine of prevention. It has, of course, been pointed out to you that you are merging mass addresses and sections and drastically reducing organic positions. This is a functional shrinking that follows the Ministry's general contraction of expenditure, while having come out of the memorials, we should try to restore a dynamic RUPD, not to perpetuate an Austerity Ministry. You make me remind you that elsewhere, in public enterprises recently - there has been a reference to the DEDEFOP and ERT - but also to the services of Maximos and to what is linked to the supposedly state of endlessness, increasing the addresses and positions of managers and managers with generous wages. That's where money is. In fact, there is, in the bill, a general trend towards strengthening the central service against the external service, in which there must be a multitude of employees, since the work of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is its presence in the capitals of the world rather than Greece. We must finally think not of a memorial country under custody but of the horizon and ambitions of the next decades. We can't do diplomacy without diplomats. It's not just a diplomacy by officials in Athens. It has also been pointed out that the National Security Council must be the body that coordinates the Ministries of National Defence and Foreign Affairs. Individual offices such as the Defence Diplomacy, too little can offer for a well-established and politically responsible defence and foreign policy coordination and a genuine strategic approach to national security. China's deterioration in the new address organisation is fading. In any case, you also have China. You include a series of different emerging geopolitical blocs, such as the Indian subcontinent, Southeast Asia - Oceania, obviously the two Koreans and Japan. We need a separate address exclusively for China, if not for East Asia and South Asia. And of course, this must go hand in hand with strengthening our diplomatic presence in these areas. I say this because developments in Asia are and will also be decisive for our country. In fact, Greece, like other countries in the Mediterranean, is in China's plans to expand its economic influence, tighten economic links and build infrastructure, in a gigantic geographical area covering southern Asia and the Mediterranean. It is a development that goes beyond individual Greek governments and has a horizon for decades. China is becoming an ecumenist player. There is a need for professional and political preparation, a design, so that we can shape developments for mutual benefit. I would also like to highlight the relative deterioration in Latin America by its merger with North America and the Caribbean in A7. Latin America has an economic and geopolitical level. It is also diffused with China's development. Brazil is a player in the international economy, while regional cooperation, developed in previous years, has significantly changed the region's data vis-à-vis the United States. The new General Secretariat of the Hellenic Democrat and Public Diplomacy, resulting from a merger, is, I think, an unfortunate option of silent downgrading. Indeed, there is a link between public diplomacy, but we cannot underestimate the huge object covered by the Greek Dispersion, basically. There are very great opportunities for the Greek diaspora to strengthen its ties on a horizontal basis, first of all, the blooming of its communities and, secondly, to work for the country as well. It is a diplomatic resource, which few countries are lucky to have. There are a lot of things we need to do to deal with the problems, which concern them, and which are afflicting them. We have received many complaints from Greeks from the service of our consulates. Minister, my speech was intended to be more strategic in terms of the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but it will force me to respond to a slippage of politics, which I think you are doing. You accused us in your speech that we were received by phone and therefore that we want to do services, calling for the rule, the power and the possibility of extending a career from sixty-five to sixty-seven years. But what you did not say and you are forcing me to answer you is that the current framework is at the discretion of the Minister to decide on such an extension for those who he wishes. So, Minister, I am forced to answer you that, if you do not want to generalise this generality, you must admit that you are taking many phones, and you must also admit, with this act and your refusal, that you want to continue taking phones and making selective services. This does not honor Greek foreign policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Villardos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u244	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the bill, which is very extensive, and it covers to a large extent the organizational aspects of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, our rapporteur, Mr Mylonis, has been mentioned in detail today and in the committees. So today we will only highlight a few of his points. First of all, Articles 4 and 18 clearly prepare our country's appeal to The Hague, after, among other things, our agreement, the Parliament's agreement, the representation of Greece by the Minister for Foreign Affairs. Apart from the fact that we are, of course, against the appeal to The Hague, in particular with the agenda mentioned in many media, we think that it should be given where a specific authorisation is required from the House, which will state exactly where and how it will be used, every time a new one. Continuing, in Article 7, but also in many other respects, there are references to'minorities' in Greece, which was also found in an article of a bill last week, which the government finally withdrew when we drew attention to it. In our country there are no minorities of any kind and the government must not constantly make the same mistake, whether intentionally or not, as this leads us to dangerous paths. In Article 13, now, the government refers to an Xanthi Civil Affairs Agency, and we do not understand why, since there is no corresponding anywhere else in Greece. What is different with Thrace from Larissa or Crete, for example? Nothing at all. So this article has to be withdrawn. Furthermore, because there are several references to Mount Athos, the proposal submitted to you by our rapporteur is a intergroup committee of Parliament, which will generally deal with the issues of Mount Athos, which is a leading cultural and religious heritage and legacy of our country. The support of the church and religious diplomacy mentioned by my colleague is also of great interest. As far as Article 37 is concerned, the Greek Government obviously means the ELIAMEP, which is financed by our country's budget. In this regard, the Minister of Development in our question why such an organisation, which supports Turkey in various ways, said that "ELIAMEP remains the most reliable foreign policy study institute in the country, with the greatest international authority..." - his words, I repeat - "... at a time when our foreign policy gains special weight". Obviously, we disagree with the kind Minister, so with any support from such institutions. Continuingly, it is good that there are moves to intensify our diplomatic presence after a long period of winter in which we thought we were safe, on the one hand because of existing international law, on the other hand because of our participation in the European Union. We finally understood that none of the two of us, and instead of benefiting us, at least, economically, from the large common market, national governments are obviously serving us nowhere, with which the trade we trade, which we are conducting, is about 50% of the total, as we will be tabling in the Minutes, at the end, destroyed us by the imposition of the memoranda without end, as well as by the absorption of our young people who have been unable to survive any longer in our homeland. We have already lost inspiring training costs of more than EUR 100 billion, Greeks who produced more than EUR 25 billion annually in the past. So we need to put their return as our top priority. In any case, it is important to promote our presence in countries with great economies, in countries with a significant presence of Greeks and in countries with geopolitical interest, since we are not in a similar geographical position with Sweden, which has launched an extensive programme to reduce its embassies and consulates abroad, considering unnecessary costs. For a state like Greece, with the largest fleet on the planet and with a multitude of homosexuality, its presence in as many countries as possible is necessary. It is not enough, however, to want to, but it must also be possible. In this respect, the government's intentions and so many foreign departments in today's bill, which is only 288 million in 2021 from 472 million in 2008, are in no way consistent with the government's intentions and services in the current draft law, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Along with the reduction in the Ministry's budget, payroll has also been reduced, which is, of course, negative for the morality of its officials, who are serving in countries with a high cost of living. If we add here the cost of the economic activities needed to achieve success, such as seminars, exhibitions, events, etc., we will find that it is not enough money available, especially if we include the activities of the Economic and Commercial Affairs Offices, as described in Article 310. However, the State General Accounting Office does not mention any cost for the bill, simply that they will be covered by the 288 million budget, registered before its vote. Is that possible, really? On the other hand, if we have heard correctly, the Ministry is not even able to absorb this money because of its obsolete structure, level 1960, according at least to what the Minister said. But if that is the case, how did it absorb 472 million in 2008, about twice as much? He'll have to explain it to us, obviously. We will be closing down with the Council from the Greek Democratic Republic. We consider it very positive that he should be re-established, although the relevant chapters, if we are not mistaken, were not included in the consultation, so we wonder why. Furthermore, there is no cost for this either from the General Accounting Office of the State giving us the impression that it was decided to be included in the bill at the last minute. Is that true? In any case we know very well that the dissolution of the CSCE was afflicted by the homogeneity, so that its revolution must be properly organized, so that it is not dissolved again and is not a customary instrument or a vehicle for the service of personal vanity or party purposes, let alone when it is established that the draft law on participation in the elections of Greeks abroad has been passed, so the impression is that this is the reason for its establishment. On the other hand, with the performance of the Greek economy, which seems to be the worst in the eurozone, about 15% of GDP, in the same percentage as we led in 2009 to the IMF, but with half the debt, with a deficit in the current account of 10% and with the largest twin debts compared to all the other countries of Europe, it is clear that we do not have the means for a serious organisation of the Foreign Ministry. So the bills don't help, even if they didn't have today's problems. We will now continue with another matter. In particular, because we are blaming - in in introductory terms - the government, of course - often by terminating neoliberalism, based on the sale of public-sector companies, we think it is right to explain the concept of what we are accusing it of, so that it can be better understood by the Greeks, who are literally suffering from their economic policy, which will appear when it is no longer possible to hide behind the pandemic - hides everything behind the pandemic - when we are all faced with the nightmare of the next day, after the end of the waste of the government is finished without thinking about tomorrow at all, as in the period 2004-2009, which has led us to overcompensation. More specifically, because free market fans are misunderstood, assuming that neoliberalism is nothing different from what they believe to be, they must know that neoliberalism is indeed the result of a drastic reduction in the state's influence. However, in political economic reality the image is completely different, since neoliberalism creates stronger, more interventionist and even authoritarian state mechanisms. For example, in Greece, the final state of the current Prime Minister, who is constantly claiming, while his ministers are gradually turned into pro-ministers, with huge jurisdictions that, in essence, then transfer to the Prime Minister, with the final result that we have an authoritarian "a man's authority" that is subject to and ultimately accountable to the occupation forces of the country. In this context, it is a widespread misconception that neoliberals are against the state and aim to keep it as small as possible, as they spread out to mislead and have with them liberals, and it is clearly apparent in Greece's example that the exact opposite is the case. The prevalent hypothesis, therefore, that the state is an enemy of neoliberals is absolutely false, since the state is the most important means of enforcing neoliberalism, which is not significantly different from national socialism, in essence being its post-evolution. In this regard, markets are social and institutional structures that need laws and rules to work effectively, so a strong state is required to launch these markets, to be imposed and to be maintained. The tasks of such a state include providing more general infrastructure, creating and safeguarding the rules of law, neoliberal natural standards, regulating social conflicts between workers and capital, external and internal security from police and the Army and so on. Anyone who does not see that this is exactly what is going on in Greece today is simply blind. In any case, the process of neoliberalisation would not have been possible if the states had not implemented it by taking appropriate measures, as well as by exploiting all crises, such as financial 2008, the 2010 European debt crisis and COVID today. What is this procedure? It is quite simply the establishment of independent authorities, independent of Parliament and democracy, as is already the case in Greece, where, from five provided for in the Constitution, we now have thirty-two, the liberalisation of markets, goods and capital, the privatisation of public goods such as water and energy, the deregulation of financial markets, restrictions on labour rights, the reduction of social programmes etc. In conclusion, neoliberalism and the neoliberal political regime do not seek to withdraw the state in favour of the market or reduce the extent of state intervention in itself, but to intensify State intervention in favour of the big capital, in particular domestic and international elites, which the neoliberal state serves, as in the past, national socialism. However, as a Greek Solution, we believe in the mixed economy where public utilities and strategic enterprises must belong to the public sector, while all the others in the private sector, the nation state, which is the only guarantee of democracy, the restriction of globalisation, which leads to competition with countries of cheap labour, such as China, destroying our industry, and the real free market, not neoliberalism and the enlarged state that creates with impoverished - citizens' debt slaves. Our great difference with the New Democracy, at least in the area of the economy, is that we are really in favour of the free economy and private initiative, but not in favour of the state-owned domestic elite, which represses Greeks and small and medium-sized enterprises from the outset, as has always been the case. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u245	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Lippe has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with the draft legislation under discussion, the overall organisational structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being reviewed. It is a necessary initiative, which comes as a strengthening of the dominant role that Greek foreign policy must play. We don't have any delusions. Our homeland has over time complex relations with some of the neighbouring countries. Foreign policy is a key pillar of security and prosperity within our territorial sovereignty. At the same time, today's draft law makes important steps in the effort to maintain and strengthen our relationship with the emigrant Greeks. The interventions made in the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs aim primarily to create a more flexible and effective shape that best serves the modern role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The addresses, departments and units of the Minister are reduced, while the officials who have moved to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs from other ministries are fully exploited. A new evaluation system, comprising the self-assessment of the staff member, is adopted, and many criteria and quantitatively and qualitatively are taken into account. The JEPC, a Centre for Foreign Policy Design, whose responsibilities relate to the creation of a scientific and research basis to support the Minister through cooperation with academic and research institutions and bodies. A Defence Diplomacy Office is hereby established, which brings the Foreign and National Defence Ministries to a direct interconnection. In an attempt to speed up the translation processes, the Translation Service of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is abolished and is replaced by the Body of Certified Translators, which is registered, as is the case in many European countries. The major delays, which are now observed at the time of the completion of the translation process, are, in our view, effectively dealt with by the new system. The entire procedure shall be conducted electronically and each document shall include the digital signature of the translator. One of the most important contributions being made is to highlight the economic dimension of diplomacy. In this context, the new General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extrovert is responsible for drawing up the National Strategic Plan of Extrovert, promoting our country's image at international level, managing Greek name issues in products and services and in foreign trade issues. It is worthy of the bill, which relates to international development cooperation and humanitarian aid, namely for sustainable development, the fight against poverty and the policies to prevent disasters and emergency aid in cases of emergency. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Greece's development aid concerns mainly specific regions, the Balkans, the Middle East, North Africa, and includes material and human resources even financial support. The current government has, from the outset, set itself the objective of strengthening a concept, which we have unfortunately forgotten in recent years, the concept of the nation. There have been many waves of refugee immigration from Greece to abroad, the last, as we all know, a few years ago. The government and the Prime Minister considered our duty to lay our relations with the Greek community under new, stronger foundations. For the first time Greeks were granted the right to vote, and today additional important steps are taking. A new General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic is hereby established as the result of the combination of two letters. The aim of the best promotion of our country's image abroad, as well as the promotion of the issues of the Greek community. It is recommended at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Hellenic Republic, in order to strengthen the ties of the impoverished Greeks with the country and to participate in the formation of policies to preserve the Greek language and the Greek culture. The large section of the bill is the reintroduction of the Council of Democrat Hellenism. The Board's function is a constitutional check and it is therefore very necessary to act after a number of years of inertia. The board as an advisory body of the State is responsible for developing strong links between the Greeks worldwide. Acts in the dissemination of the Greek language, Greek culture, phillinism, the care and use of the Greeks, who work abroad and attract investment. Representatives of the Greek community from all the regions in the world, who are elected through the internal procedures of the Greek Democratic Republic, are participating in the Council. The General Assembly is the supreme body of the Council called the Common of Depopulated Hellenism, based in Thessaloniki. The meetings of the public are open with participation by Greek expatriates, who exist in their fields, but even in personalities, who support the important Greek issues, our national themes, the Greek culture, even if they do not have Greek origin. The Greek nation is marching over time with a key connecting element in the Greek language, maintaining common customs and traditions. Let us not forget that the Greeks, who live outside Greece, are probably much more than those who live permanently in Greece. Perhaps modern technology, which makes communication so easy and inexpensive, creates the illusion that it is enough to maintain active ties with the Greek community. But it's not true. It is not enough for Greeks abroad to know the news of Greece or communicate easily with relatives and friends. We must as a Greek state ensure that they feel and remain an active part of the modern and constantly changing Greek reality. We must make them social in Greek vision and history, because they are an integral part of Greece, wherever they may be. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, too, for the consistency of time. Mr Dimitrios Konstantopoulos has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, we followed yesterday, and I would say that we were talking about the quality of the public dialogue. What did we see? Exchanging mud and yellowism on any side, which, of course, does not honor the Greek Parliament, at a time when we are experiencing a storm of revelations, when the victims have felt all kinds of violence. And, indeed, they need to feel our support, the state’s real support. However, ladies and gentlemen, we see the New Democracy and SYRIZA engaged in micro-political controversy and party krone. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are not useful, we do not create the conditions to help the victims, to open mouths, to shine truth and the guilty, of course, to pay. So let the tons of confrontation come down and let justice do its job. You don't need any hints. The role of the honorer can be played. But it does not produce and promote benefit. All this, of course, takes place when we have serious national issues, national problems and while we are already in the investigative contacts, and while the Turks, at the same time, are causing new NAVTEX to destroy International Law and Law of the Sea. We therefore need, ladies and gentlemen, a responsible attitude from everyone and, of course, a national consensus in order to be useful and to do our job as parliamentarians. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the Foreign Ministry bill today. It is a bill that brings far-reaching changes in the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for workers and services, a six hundred-page bill which, if anything, could be exploited by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for a real and substantial reform, for a modernisation of structures, for an introduction of innovations. However, this is not visible, we do not see it in this bill. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, introduces the new establishment plan of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It's the first time, I'd say, an organogram comes to be voted on as a law. However, any service change, which the next Minister considers necessary, will come with an amendment to vote on, in substance, from the House. Minister, you call this bill 'the flexibility bill', you call it'modernisation'. However, if anything, everyone's question is why you do it. But what is understandable to everyone is that you are flexible. Ladies and gentlemen, I come to the changes in the structure of the Ministry. I'm going to stand on three points. First, instead of strengthening, Minister, the role of the Secretary-General and facilitating his work - and this is to coordinate the services - you have to bear him with additional administrative responsibilities. Our rapporteur, Mr Loverdes, has tabled a very important proposal. Set up a place of permanent State Secretary at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, a place that allows our Constitution with Article 81. In fact, I would say that this ensures the continuity of the Ministry's services regardless of governments and political choices. Do the thing. It would be a real reform. As we have heard from our rapporteur, you already have this proposal in your drawer at the Ministry. So I ask: What prevents you from bringing it to the vote? The second basic change, which you bring, is the European issues of the Ministry. You repeal the General Secretariat of European Affairs and the Coordination Directorate for European Affairs, at a time when critical political decisions for our country are taken at European level and at European Union level. And instead of strengthening, Minister, these services, you are abolishing them. Why? I'm waiting for your answer. Now, with regard to the finances of the Ministry, you do not bring any substantial change that will make it easier for the Ministry to facilitate our foreign policy. We see in the Foreign Ministry's budget that expenditure on the Presidency of the Republic and the Prime Minister should continue to be included, as well as fixed contributions to the European Union and NATO. This expenditure, Minister, should be borne by the State budget. The Ministry, the embassies, the consulates, our diplomats need resources to be effective, resources, of course, that are not provided by this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mr Loverdos, has referred to an issue which concerns all diplomats and foreigners, especially outside the European Union, when they have been in hospitals. It concerns, in other words, Greek citizens, workers, who serve our country as workers abroad, beyond Europe. They go into incredible bureaucracy and, I would say, the finding is a gulgot, because they are vulnerable to any health problem that will arise. Ladies and gentlemen, it cannot be treated as uninsured. We ask them to cover the hospitals themselves and then wait for the bureaucratic procedures to be completed to get their money back. Give it a solution, Minister, it's worth it. The improvement you are bringing, however, would not say that it is enough. Give a definitive solution without a semimeter. Minister, I am going to refer to the injustice suffered by the Ministry's economic and commercial affairs officials regarding the retirement age. This is because diplomatic employees are retired with the completion of thirty-five years in this sector and the employees of the economic and commercial affairs sector retired to thirty-five years of public service. So what do we see? We see a two-speed retirement, without that, of course, justifiable in terms of diversification. That is why we are asking you to see the regulation of Article 381 again and to provide for those officials in the diplomatic sector as well. Minister, we have tabled an amendment to you. Look at her and make her acceptable. We're proposing a solution. In your hand it is with amendment to give a real solution. Finally, with regard to the changes to the democratic Hellenism: it is right, I would say, to reopen the Council from the Republic of Greece. At the same time, however, you are uniting, Minister, the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic with public diplomacy and that finds us vertically opposed. The General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, ladies and gentlemen, has been established in PASOK and is doing a great job. The General Secretariat, therefore, must have clear competences in relation to democrat Hellenism and not be involved in matters and services. To conclude, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs does not constitute reform, because it is a sloppy and obsession with a reasonable past. I would say that it is constantly causing problems in the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and in Greek diplomacy. That is why, Minister, this bill does not agree with us and we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u249	And we thank Mr. Constantopoulos. He now has the floor for seven minutes by the Member of the New Democracy Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u250	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the importance of foreign policy is undeniable. The way in which it is conducted contributes decisively both to safeguarding national interests - in accordance with international law and the Treaties - and to strengthening international relations, making use of cooperation, improving the country's international position. Effective diplomacy means democracy, it means peace, it means prosperity for the people. Today that the international environment is constantly changing, that the situation in the Eastern Mediterranean does not say to calm down with the constant Turkish challenges, our country is a force for stability for the region and the need for an effective foreign policy and public diplomacy is imperative. We have previously heard the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr. Dendia, talking about the three pillars of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs' structure with this bill: the pillar of international relations, economic relations and extroversion, but also public diplomacy and democratic Hellenism. All of this is important tools to defend our country's issues with its neighbours, but, at the same time, to develop international cooperation to attract investment. We also need the Greeks of the whole world. From the Republic of Hellenism is an important part of the country and is the ambassador of Greek culture, our language, our history. The draft law, which we are debating today, contributes to the above through the new Organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the upgrading of public diplomacy and the further utilization of the democratic Hellenism. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is responsible and successful in our foreign policy, and that, ladies and gentlemen, has already been seen by voting for the extension to twelve miles. So today we are called upon to vote on an important reform for international relations and extroversion. We have in today's bill for the first time - and this is where many congratulations are due to the Foreign Minister - the concept of economic diplomacy. That was missing until today. And I am speaking from Stepma not only as a Member of the Greek Parliament, but also as an economist. Nowadays, for all the developed countries, economic diplomacy is the most important part of international relations and foreign policy. In our country, unfortunately, it did not exist. The current draft law will make a significant contribution to modernising the organization and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its services. Of course we had to move to a new agency in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We have all agreed on this. The previous organisation - and this must be noted - was introduced in 2007 for the days of Dora Bakoyannis. It is a very difficult and time-consuming process and its result is today's very detailed - the truth is - draft law. With today's draft law, the Ministry acquires a modern organisational structure that will make the best use of human resources, while bringing about a reduction in operating costs. We are bringing simplification and digitisation of services. This also involves the abolition of the Translation Service, which was a timeless pillar of bureaucracy. After the symbolic abolition of the fax into the public services, the Translation Service, who were lucky to need it, knew that it meant suffering and delay. Furthermore, we have new ways of evaluating the staff, reorganising the Diplomatic Academy, setting up the Centre for Foreign Policy Design - the so-called JEPC - the reopening of the Council from Presidential Hellenism. As all the interlocutors in this Chamber pointed out, today's legislation incorporates Greekism into the core of the Ministry and highlights its important role. And because my colleague, the special speaker from SYRIZA, spoke of the deterioration of the General Secretariat of Greekism, because we are introducing the new General Secretariat of Greek Democrat and Public Diplomacy through the merger of the two secretaries, let me remember other times in the SYRIZA government, when at the time the Deputy Minister for the Democrat Hellenism of the SYRIZA government became a travel champion. Who can forget photos of the then State Secretary from Melbourne, Mozambique, Congo, Côte d'Ivoire? So many travels, indeed, would be envy by the most successful professional traveling television show. So it would be best if we were talking about degrading an institution. After all, my colleague from SYRIZA mentioned the positive aspects of today's bill and expressed - and this is very positive - the fact that the New Democracy Government has also adopted several of the arrangements of the then bill. Let us also say about the general meeting of the CSCE, the Council of De-Democrat Hellenism, the 'Comnon', which will have the seat in Thessaloniki. It is also recommended that the Office of Defensive Diplomacy, which will be the coordination structure between two major ministries, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. I also stressed at the outset, like all my fellow Members, the very important aspect of the integration of economic diplomacy. To this end, we have the new structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the General Secretariat of International Relations and Extroverty, which is at the core of the Ministry's operation and will be an integral part of foreign policy from now on. They are also subject to it by the Hellenic Investment and External Trade Company and the Export Credit Insurance Agency to assist and implement its work. Finally, Mr President, I shall refer to the arrangements for officials, carried out by the former Ministry of Economy and Development, with care for their smooth integration into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, according to their formal qualifications and experience, but also to the option given to them by this draft law. And they really deserve congratulations to those who contributed to today's draft law. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'll be out in a minute. In the wake of the charged debate, in the shadow of this unpleasant climate and polarization in the political dialogue over the last few days, the debate on today's bill throughout - which is closed today by its vote - was a well-populated process. They have all stood at the need for the bill and the reform it will bring. Everyone has tabled their proposals, their thoughts. All Parliament's wings should therefore vote in favour of this draft law, which only brings the country to the fore in international matters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u251	Thank you, too. He has the floor, after the Step sanitary, the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Thanasis Pafilis has been prepared. Here you go, Mr. Paphie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u252	We are discussing a bill that regulates, deals with the reconstruction and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Here we want to ask a question, the first question: What changes are taking place for? To serve foreign policy more effectively. In this, what foreign policy is, we have no controversy. You're all together and we're all on the other side. In other words, it is now so obvious in this area that all other parties are strategically involved, that is to say, the identification of the strategy, which is being confronted with those who, of course, have an importance, but who do not change the substance. And you say - and SYRIZA and the Change Movement, I don't know about the others - 'we have a lack of a national strategy'. All right, what are you talking about? Are you kidding the world? Are you with the Americans, yes or no? You're all! Are you with NATO, yes or no? You are! It is foreign policy, and indeed, it became good, as Mr Katrugalos said, by people's murderers today became pigeons like yesterday's who fell into Syria. Are you with the European Union, yes or no, which was the pit of lions and others? You are. These are decisive. To go to the economy, I don't have time to talk about the economy, but also about the economy. You follow faithfully all parties the doctrine that the driving force of growth is the monopolies, it is the private initiative that you call it stylishly 'healthy or ill'. No one says sick though. There is therefore an identification in foreign policy too. Secondly, can foreign policy be separated from internal policy? Because the argument you are raising is that foreign policy is something else, it has nothing to do with internal policy, so the conclusion is that we must admit, we must all have unity, we must be united. Is that so? Is foreign policy different from economic policy and other policies? When governments and parties break their people, they do so for other peoples too, because this has happened all these years and within the capitalist system, to speak more specifically. We therefore say that it is uniform, that it serves class interests. Nobody's talking about this here. And foreign policy. Therefore, it is not separate. Ladies and gentlemen, the interests of those who produce wealth - and it is the working class, the workers and the people - are not the same as those who break it down. It is a single country, of course, but in this country there are two kinds of basics, perhaps some small intermediaries. They are the ones we described earlier. Are we wrong when we say there can be no consensus and unity? Let us give some examples and invite those who see us and read us to think with us. Let us remember before, I mean 1996, 1997 until 2004, which was the period of great growth, 8%. What were the PASOK and New Democracy governments then saying? National unity, do not claim that the country will grow and we will live better too. Of course, the second thing happened. The business groups and the workers were remembered, if they took, some crumbs. The second example to think about the world is the economic capitalist crisis, which started from 2009 until it lasted. What did they all say, but all the governments? That here we should all be united together to overcome the crisis, that we should all not talk, because Greece is at a difficult time, etc. We know now, national confession! What was the result? The workers and the populace are fighting to pay - they have paid for growth, they have paid for the crisis - and the others, the business groups, nothing. And not only that, but some have also increased their profits. So what did national unity mean today? Submission to the interests of capitalists, wealthy ones. That's what it meant! That's what they all called, but all the governments. Third matter. In the period of anemic development we had the same again. Don't talk, because now that we've been through the crisis, we're going to development, so head right, and step of goose, head down. But unbelievable money was given by your governments, and the New Democracy today and SYRIZA back to business groups, while the employees got nothing. Today we have a health crisis, which is a new economic crisis. Here again. The coronary doesn't distinguish classes, so we're all together on the same boat, to get over it. Only in the pandemic - and here it seems the dirt and inhumanity of the capitalist system worldwide - the rich became richer, have been squandered! Not to mention examples. This has also been done in our country, as well as in general. It was said by BLOOMBERG, your institution that you believe. He said that at this time of the pandemic, which millions of people die, because health systems, because they don't cooperate, because there is competition between companies for vaccines and many others because there is too much to do. Their profits, he says, have reached astronomical levels. It also says that this is the greatest difference between wealth and poverty in the last half century. It is not said by the Central Committee of the JRC, it is written by the BLOOMBERG itself! So one can say "Well, okay, that's what happens, we know, this is the world". Of course, there are two kinds of people, those who serve barbaricity and those who go to overthrow it and change it. That was the whole story of humanity. And Spartacus came out in the servile system and started. And the feudal system was then overturned by the French Revolution that was urban and brought capitalism. That's how the story moves, not that's the reality, so we're kicking our head. And I'm saying that to answer possible comments. But here, he says, it's another thing. All right, the finances, it's okay, this is where we all need to join together. Really, for what? Why did we enter NATO? To defend our borders? Who's threatening our borders? Allied, Turkey. Together we plan NATO's wars, I mean Greece, and at the same time we have the greatest enemy. Why all the missions abroad? It's just shameful that you say it. Despite my appreciation, Mr Amanatidis, can you say that Greece has been turned into a country of peace and friendship and twenty-seven bases? How many is there, Niko? I've lost the account. The New Democracy, based on this, says 'all infrastructure, military and political at the hands of the Americans'. Is this a peaceful country or an aggressive camp? That's the kind of thing. Camp aggressive. Tell us now, since Greece is so good, why are we participating in the DEFENDER 2021 exercise? What's the exercise? It's a war rehearsal against Russia. We have problems with Russia as a country? Do we have one? What do we got? Is he threatening us? Russia threatens us?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u253	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u254	We're not with Russia. Forget it! Is he threatening us? He's not threatening us. They are the plans of NATO and the large multinationals as a whole in confronting imperialist forces. Don't talk, because you give me a chance, and I'll say more. Secondly, what is the problem with Iran? Is he threatening us? Why are the Patriots going to Iran? Big patriots! They leave the country's defense and go to Iran. You say it's a defensive weapon. Well, don't mess with us now. We know, too. What defensive and aggressive? They'll defend what? It gives them to Saudi Arabia, which is "democracy". Maurilla, fascism of the horn, dare not talk to a man and behead him in the square. And you consider it an ally country!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u255	Is Iran a democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u256	The same with Israel and all the rest. If he eats you, don't scratch yourself in the cup of pot. I'll say worse!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u257	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u258	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u259	We do not agree either with Iran's regime or with nothing. You, however, bless the regime of Saudi Arabia and send it weapons to strike another people. What the people will do in Iran and any other people are their own account. There are no ones who give solutions to their problems. Therefore, this is not happening at random or because we are obliged to do so. They are because they serve not the country in general and abstractly. They serve those who have and possess wealth. On the question of the defence of the country, the position of the JRC is well known. Not a step back, not a step forward. It is known that the position of the JRC, which says a blockade of all these projects, which serve the interests of both Greek capital and, of course, Americans. And make it clear. We are against and against those who drag humanity into blood, to poverty, to destruction to misery. You're all talking about turbulence in the area. What turbulence? These are interventions of imperialism, which wants to put in hand the markets, which wants to put hands on the roads to which it wants to take geostrategic control over its competition with Russia and China. We are, therefore, with the people, and we want popular unity rather than false ones, the one being projected as a national one. Unity of the people, in order to defend their own interests and not to shed their blood to win the oil tankers, the shipowners, to win the great business groups, which are - Greeks, I mean - which have huge interests. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, I would like to refer to some aspects. First foreign policy in the economic sector. Economic diplomacy. There's no Minister, but it's okay. We're not talking about the ministers. The ministers know well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u260	The Minister's coming.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u261	Mr President, I shall also take my dentistry. I still have six minutes. I'll take it quick. The question is what foreign policy means in the economic sector and who it serves. That's the question. Is it for all the Greeks? No, it's for business groups. One is that. Secondly, the commitment of the country to European Union policy. For example: sanctions in Russia and other countries that come from mainly political issues. Sanctions in Turkey don't put them on, but they put them on Russia for this. We do not support Russia. It's a capitalist and tough country. But are we asking you all, really, why should we follow them and not sell the products and throw them away or go through Turkey? What's that? What kind of politics is that? Is that patriot? Oh, no. No, it's not. You're saying we have foreign policy, multifaceted, etc. That's a big lie. You've got one side. Agitated to the Americans, NATO, etc. And with great economic interests. Do we have mutually advantageous relationships? Where they're from. All external relations are defined, but all - let us add a small exception, which does not matter - from the interests of monopolistic and business groups. And can I tell you something? When we sent an army to Kosovo and died nineteen phantoms of leukemia, because they had bombed human killers Americans from depleted uranium, the Greek people had risen back. There is an article in "ELLEROTYPIA", which said: "If we want to defend the infiltration", which was the political Signite in the Balkans that you were going to the cities of the Balkans and Yugoslavia after the war and you thought you were in the Constitution, because all the banks were around - "we have to make sacrifices and send an army". When the fry went to Libya, the Minister of Foreign Affairs then - I don't want to say names, but I'm going to say it, we were also classmates - Venizelos asked him: What does the fry want there? What we have with Libya to share. It says: we must protect the interests of Greek businesses. All those who worked. Third example: Vaccines. Explain to the people who are struggling and dying why should Greece not take all the vaccines that are approved and are effective and stuck within the European framework, with agreements that are opaque, with non-compliance with the multinational contracts they have acquired? And nobody speaks here. That's where they're stuck. Why? To defend the interests of these multinationals. What's a multidimensional one? Secondly, solidarity. Sensitive theme. It's the Trojan horse of imperialism. Why? Solidarity what does it mean? It means helping and supporting people who suffer. And the question arises: What are the peoples of the formerly called third world suffering particularly? Why? Their fate had it? Who's attacking them? First, poverty. Why? Because they have been taken over by the multinationals, the big capital and the local ones that develops. Second, wars. Who makes these wars? What do you say here, weeping? On the one hand, you support wars and, on the other hand, pretend to be solidarity with the various peoples. This solidarity reminds of the old times that the kings were slaughtering and the queens would go the other day and hand over candy to the orphans. Now they're more modern. They are bombing, leveling all countries and then coming as phasing-out hypocrites to go back to them, supposedly and in terms. I will also say below on these issues. In what terms? To subdue their own interests. Third issue: development aid, development funds. I tell you that since 1996 - it is not a personal matter, but it is a matter of our party's experience - I am a Secretary-General at the World Peace Council and I have turned over a hundred countries. I also did in the European Parliament. I'm not saying it as a personal witness, but to support what I'm about to say. What development aid, but are you saying what development funds? There is a triplet: development aid, development funds, NGOs. Of course, the people must know that all of this is from their blood and sweat that they are supposed to be donations. On what terms? Firstly, hard conditions to change the countries and to 'hand them'. Privatisations, for example, reforms. Reforms, what do we mean? Jungle labor relations. The OECD, for example, the European Union, change of governance and what you want. Second, where are they heading? They are directed to support their own groups. There is also evidence of Greece in relation to the European Union. But here, we are talking about something different, the infamous development companies and the companies that took them to the point where they said 'no, we' and that others are financing their own companies. So development aid and funds all have one goal: to support the local urban order and, above all, to support their own interests. Non-governmental organisations: there are exceptions - to be clear - and people unreasonable. There are some, starting with good intentions, etc. However, the thought and creation - evil, one would say - of NGOs was called NGOs. However, they are called 'Go', i.e. governmental organizations. And the reason is very simple: Economics depends on all governments and the European Union. Therefore, apart from people's exceptions, their role was, firstly, to dismantle the traditional movement, as was the social forums. That's the part they played. Where is all these NGO leaders and the social forums true? They're in the Foreign Counsellors, these big people you've all worshiped and told us that we don't see the new reality. The NGOs are, therefore, promoting politics in another way, both the interests of the European Union and imperialism. Let me give you examples: seventeen NGOs in Yugoslavia were caught - and no one protested - about spying. Another example: NGO to study the passage of birds. What did they do? They've been blocked in the mountains, where are Yugoslavia's defensive positions. It was seventeen. They were dismantled then and no one protested. Can we now say fund for dissidents? They caught the other, the great democrat, for Syria with half a million. And then the European Union and the GUE, other than the JRC and some other parties, came out to support him, that he wants to bring democracy? There are too many other things. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. In fact, on the basis of what we say about Syria, we have heard no statement from any party. Yesterday, the Americans bombed Syria and killed twenty-seven people. There could be more of them. Only the JRC made a announcement. All the rest of the fish silence. This is Biden's good morning, which says that we will continue war and intervention. And what is the slutty of politics? What's he saying? "Protect the American troops." Where are the U.S. troops? They're in Michigan, the American troops, and they're bombing them? He's in Syria. How did they go to Syria? Did anyone call them? Did the government invite them? Who? Nobody. And nobody's talking about all this. They don't say anything, even...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u262	Mr. Palphie, finish it up. You said take the time of dentology, tritology, tetanology. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u263	I'm done in a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u264	You've had a general discussion. Now, we have legislative work. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u265	It's not generalized.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u266	Shut up, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u267	It's all combined. That's what I'll judge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u268	No, I'll judge it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u269	I'm saying if she's general. I say this: we do not care about the problems of workers. On the contrary. And because Nikos Papastasis said it and said it again, we generally support most of the employees' demands, which have to do with reducing organic positions, covering insurance, evaluating. I'll tell you something: we've been sent a note, Mr. Teddy. Based on your secondary disciplinary board, to get one to the Council of State takes five years. Hello. It's been destroyed. Change it. At least take a measure like that. It takes five years. If you want me to tell you the calculation I'm doing. Also, I did not understand about the Translation Service. Why can't you have permanent civil servants, certified to translate and go to the free market? Usually, this costs more than payroll. It is, however, for the market to be fed. After all this, of course, you realise that we are voting against the bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u270	Please, get the Step ready. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Panagiotis Skourikos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to focus on the subject of the General Secretariat from the Greek Democratic Republic. The aims of this secretariat are to develop the links of the deceased Greeks with their homeland and with each other, to maintain their cultural identity in dispersal, and, of course, to study and assist all possible help in survival problems in the countries in which they are established. In order to achieve these objectives, which I mentioned earlier, over the years, the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic has maintained contacts with organisations and institutions created by the Greeks in their countries of establishment, while in the course of the 1985s it is organising conferences, meetings, cultural events internally and abroad. In this context, in cooperation with other Ministries such as the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Culture and others, it promotes similar programmes of Greek language education and information, educational and cultural, with particular emphasis on migrant children. Finally, he is studying and promoting with a co-authorized Ministry various favourable financial arrangements and measures for repatriated Greeks. Its work is therefore extremely important. Accordingly, however, the deterioration of the General Secretariat of the Greek Republic by converting it into a simple address and subjecting it to a general secretariat with public diplomacy, religious and political diplomacy and consular affairs came from the New Democracy Government. This merger makes policy exercise ineffective and problematic, not only in the field of democrat Hellenism, but also in all the other areas mentioned above. Minister, you cannot take into account the fact that almost all the collectives of the deceased Greeks are in a negative way facing the merging of the General Secretariat of Disciplinary Hellenism. The General Secretariat of Disciplinary Hellenism since its establishment in '83 has played a catalytic role in the communication and support of our relatives, where land, with the mother country. In particular, during the period of the governance of SYRIZA, the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic was fully upgraded so that through it the Ministry of Foreign Affairs plays a catalytic role, with the main concern of supporting the Greeks. It was previously heard by Members of the New Democracy that the Minister at SYRIZA of the General Secretariat of the Greek Democratic Republic made trips outside. It is a view that the Minister who deals with democrat Hellenism does not visit the Hellenism from the Republic. That's a point of view, too. Of course, the current Minister of the New Democracy is unfortunate. He can't make trips with the coroner. So this government choice of yours also reflects the functioning of the relevant committee of the Parliament, the Committee on Hellenism of the Dispersion. Really, where did this committee get lost? Why isn't he coming? Why isn't it working? Has he solved all the problems of our impoverished? With the Government of SYRIZA, the Committee on Hellenism of the Dispersion has been active and has dealt with a variety of issues. The interest of the New Democracy Party in this committee was the vote of the homosexuals. When the relevant law was passed, one would say that this committee was deported. Once again, you are only facing the migrants for their vote, no matter what their real problems. You referred, Minister, to the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, saying it was not working properly. Is that why you abolished it? It hurts head, cuts head? Let's make it operational. I would like to say two words about cultural diplomacy. What is cultural diplomacy in terms of dispersion? What cultural policy does the Ministry of Foreign Affairs have to promote outside? There was the Greek Foundation of Culture, which belonged, quite rightly, to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, with a strong foreign action. It was a very good mechanism to promote cultural diplomacy, because this is a basic tool and we need it. If you cannot do anything else, you can use a draft law, which we did not have time to vote on, to restore the Hellenic Foundation for Culture to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, of course, always in cooperation with the Ministry of Culture, so that you can exercise cultural diplomacy. If our country with its enormous cultural wealth does not make use of cultural diplomacy on issues of national interest in the difficult times that we are experiencing, then it will have done an unacceptable omission. Modern Greek culture is now international. It is addressed to the rivals of the younger generation, but also to a audience around the world. Examples are a lot from both cinema and theatre and from music and arts. I have already said an example and we do not mean that the unacceptable law passed by Mrs Mendoni that Greek antiquities can be borrowed abroad for fifty - you have heard - for years and not only in museums, but - he says - in other places too. So imagine the Delphi Semester for fifty years in a mall in Singapore. This can be done by the law of Mrs. Mendoni. We do not mean this cultural diplomacy. Unfortunately, there is a lot of cultural insanity in the government and it also seems with what we are living around the Ministry of Culture today. Let us not be out of the question, however, and let us come back and say that the needs of the country's foreign policy are not satisfied with the shrinking of the General Secretariat of the Greek Democratic Republic. Instead of strengthening the secretariat, instead of giving it the proper tools by using the technological development, the evolution of our impoverished places where they live, you take steps back. You escape into conservative choices, claustrophobics, and you're not matching the interests of the dispersal. Take back the degradation of the General Secretariat of Hellenism, give her the strength and role she needs and return the Hellenic Foundation for Culture to his natural space, which is the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, the dispersal area is a serious matter and does not forgive wrong choices like those you make. You realise, of course, that we cannot follow you in these wrong choices. We are very close to the bill that you were going to vote on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u272	We would like to thank Mr Squarcialiacos and the consistency in time. I now call on the New Democracy MP, Mr Giannis Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u273	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that is being debated today in plenary - with some discounts, I do not see it very much in plenary - is an important bill concerning the overall effort made by the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis on the reform and modernisation of public administration and not just. For me it is very important that it refers mainly to the democracies of Hellenism, because for us - and I think I am talking about most in the New Democracy - Greece is where the Greeks are, where there are people who love their country and want to support it, and they must support it from whatever point of the earth they are. The majority rapporteur, Mr Bogdanos, and the Minister for Foreign Affairs have analysed this bill sufficiently, and I think they have given all the answers that need to be given. For me personally, I think that this bill in the middle of a pandemic, a shocking test that is going through human beings and our country, of course, is part of the reforms that the New Democracy Government is promoting in order to change the way the country operates. And I am not just talking about the economy and society that is, of course, the first priority of Mr Mitsotakis. For me even more, the Prime Minister himself, but also most of the members of the New Democracy, are seeking more than anything: the strengthening of our democracy, which is being tested today. Bad lies. What has happened over the past decade, especially since the economic crisis and now with the pandemic crisis, has weakened the city itself. The political system has lost a large part of public confidence, and that must be restored, because there is no society and organised state without politics and there are no politicians without the support of society itself. Whenever I get up to this step, I feel awesome, thinking of who had gone before me to this Step from the time of Eleftherios Venizelos. But I'm not going that old. I will go from 1974 onwards: Konstantinos Karamanlis, Andreas Papandreou, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Ilias Ilios - to say the faces of the Left -, Charilaos Florakis, Leonidas Kyrkos, Kostas Simitis. I have referred to those who are either not in life or are no longer in politics. All these people, because I have been dealing with politics for many years, I have seen them with awe, and now that I am in the same Step, I feel the same awe, because here we are not talking about ourselves, we do not push our own opinions and our own perceptions alone. Here we serve democracy, the parliamentary system. That is why we must be double and multi-responsible, as those politicians I referred to earlier. There are always disagreements. This is the heart of democracy. Different perceptions exist. This is the heart and the quintousity of democracy. But that is another thing: violence, overcrowding, vulnerability, populism which, unfortunately, have prevailed in the political dialogue and the political debate of the country. This undermines democracy. It does not undermine the New Democracy. It does not undermine SYRIZA or any other party. It undermines the whole democratic culture, that is, it undermines our own state, our own country, our own country. And that's what we have to resist. That's what we have to say here. I'm not hiding you that we've all made mistakes and we've all done excessives. Here and here in the New Democracy overcrowded. And people of New Democracy may have made mistakes. And I don't exclude myself from some excesses I may have done in the past. But today, from this seat, from this step forward, I call on all of us, and the three hundred who participate in it become the politician, to put above our parties, above personal or party purposes, democracy itself, the civilisation itself, so that we do not live again what we have lived in the past. As you know, many forget, because in recent years we have been through all this storm, what Transmigration has offered in the country. For those who do not remember it or have not read history - and I fear that even in this House there are some who do not know history - from 1974 to today is - if I am not mistaken - forty-seven years, democracy in Greece is working with problems - I do not hide it - with up and down, but it works better than ever before. Before 1967, what happened after 1974 did not happen. And then there were too many tensions. Most Members don't know that, but do you know why those closets, in front of the MPs' seat, are locked? They have been locked from the time of 1965, when parliamentarians opened them up and hit them on each other, because they were doing terrible things then in our political system. Since 1974, I have not been saying that it works perfectly, but it works without diversions, without risking the rule of law, as was the case in the past, without interference with independent justice, as was the case in the past. And we must preserve that, not undermine it. But I am very afraid that sometimes in the context of the party rule, which prevails in the minds of many of us, we undermine this. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy is determined to support, support and strengthen our democratic and parliamentary society, strengthen the rule of law and do what Montesquieu said, distinguishing powers even stronger. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] And because I respect time, Mr President, thank you very much for listening to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u274	And we thank Mr. Loverdo. The speaker of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr. George Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u275	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Minister for Foreign Affairs made a key choice in tabling this bill. It has made the choice to leave things as they stand in the administrative structures of the country's diplomacy and foreign policy and not to move on to the necessary areas and changes in the spirit of a long-term horizon. In reply, for example, to the question of what kind of diplomacy the country needs for the next decade, Mr. Dendias has made the choice to leave things as they stand in a field where on the one hand Greece is characterised by the most outdated, the most late structures between the countries of Western Europe - and I will then speak about it - and on the other, even these antiquated structures have suffered a dramatic deterioration in the years of the memorial and economic crisis, when during the period 2010-2014, the king of yours, the governments at the time, have devised criminal cuts, such as the elimination of almost on the ground. SYRIZA Governance in 2015-2019 undoubtedly reorganised our foreign policy in a more strategic targeting and for the first time, after many years, has focused on an active multi-dimensional foreign policy, at a time when the changes around us require precisely an active policy. On the tangible results of that policy, such as upgrading relations with countries in the Eastern Mediterranean region or the United States, the present Mitsotakis Government is "eating from the ready" when the changes around us are even bigger. It is good that Mr Denkias, as Minister for Foreign Affairs, has repeatedly considered the Presidencies' Agreement at least as good, but that is not enough. It is positive that it extends our territorial waters to the Ionian Sea, as we planned and for which we were then strongly attacked by the New Democracy, but that is not enough. It is good that it makes use of the international relations that we have built in the years of our own governance, but that is not enough. Greece has lost points in the face of the threats to its geopolitical status since July 2019 and this is due to the lack of a strategic and active foreign policy. It's not enough to eat from the ready. And I also regret Mr Catherides - he is a university professor - who said that of what he receives from abroad, we are also being congratulated on how well we are doing. To keep us from leaving us in the dark, let us bring what he refers to. SYRIZA Governance in 2015-2019 undoubtedly reorganised our foreign policy that is the major, but has not succeeded in completing the required changes in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and this bill, as in foreign policy issues, prefers to leave things as they are. What should be the country's diplomacy and foreign policy structures in a decade? Which and how many areas of the planet and by what provision of forces in them, as well as in the central agency, with what function? The authors of this bill have not even bothered to answer these key questions. They did not even bother to answer the agonizing questions posed by the associations of foreign officials and de facto raised, especially after the dramatic deterioration of diplomatic services since the 2010-2014 cuts. Mr. Dendias invoked the financial closeness of the DPRK's reduced budget. But the Ministry of National Defence is also faced with economic sluggishness. Apart from the fact that from 2015 until today there has been an increase in defensive expenditure, there is a specific provision of defensive expenditure, given the economic closeness, over a decade. Why is there no equivalent planning for foreign policy, where the cost required is many classes of size less than defence expenditure? Does the government consider foreign policy to be the result of defence policy? But it is the defence that serves foreign policy rather than vice versa. The New Democracy colleagues, the government majority - recently celebrated - for the Rafale market, and at the same time the foreign policy structures and resources available for these structures, which are more important and higher priority areas, more general than defence, are left on a path of deterioration. At a time when the country's extroversion has remained behind the country's major deficits, its economic diplomacy is the most underdeveloped, retarded across Western Europe. It's not an exaggeration. Let the Minister find a country in western Europe - a country! - from which Greece has a better economic diplomacy. He won't find it. It boasts that it is now organized, but the course of things shows exactly the opposite. He put ENTERPRISE GREECE into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - firstly the right move - to oversee the supervised, ENTERPRISE GREECE, the financial services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and not just that. ENTERPRISE GREECE himself is one of the most sinful stories and organizations in our country. It does not promote foreign trade at all, it is very badly organising the investment approach, and it is one of the worst corresponding services throughout the world. Even Latin American countries have better 'ENTERPRISE GREECE' than the one we have in our country. Political diplomacy, most importantly. Sub-financing and sub-delegation. From about 480 million in 2009 we reached 288 in 2014. In order for the world to understand this about 60 million people go practically for the operation of foreign diplomatic services and central service, when the Thirty-three guards serving the university police will cost at least 20 million a year. And we want these 60 million to organise foreign policy. I'll give you an example because I've been to the State Department. Beijing 2017, three OHIMs, three economic diplomacy executives Greece, thirty-seven Italy. And it is not even a question that should have a population ratio, but that is how to do it. This also shows something else, the lack of planning that meets the global displacements, economic and geopolitical power and the corresponding displacements of our own diplomatic interest. In addition, you maintain within the Ministry a rigid counterproductive hierarchy, making the structure of Greek diplomacy one of the most antiquated in the world, not in terms of a progressive perception, but from a purely technological point of view, in terms of efficiency, we are very far behind. The account he says, for many years now, is that it is because we have always had national issues on our agenda. He has national issues on his agenda too. No relationship between the operation of his State Department and ours. The same applies to many other countries. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Mr President, two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u276	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u277	Let me give you an example, respect for the superiors. What other diplomatic service is there in Western Europe? There must be respect for all, from the lower to the upper, from the upper to the lower, to the OHIM and from the OHIM, to the management and so on. Why do you respect the superiors? Why do they invoke it every time, who must silence voices in a different way? Can't the new diplomatic staff take the initiative? This is even more perpetuated by the tests you will put in embolism. If you want an evaluation, Minister, there was first number one thing that you had to do and it was something the PASOK did in the 1980s, that is to say it has no involvement in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but the School of Public Administration in how our diplomats are imported into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It was abolished by Father Mitsotakis in '92, if I remember correctly and since then it has not come back and unfortunately PASOK does not even honour his past. You have not taken into account the views of the Association of Diplomatic Officials at all. I do hear that you accuse her of being restricted to her trade unions. It was not limited to trade union demands, but it saw the issue politically. But that's a wishful job. I wish all associations and trade unions in the public sector were aware of the wider public interest and were not kept limited to their trade union demands. I hope at least, Minister, that there will be no consequences for this from your own policy towards the Association of Diplomatic Officials. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u278	And we thank Mr. Tsipras. Before we move on to the circle of speakers with 'Webex', you will allow me to say a few things about an amendment which is incorporated into today's bill, which is to extend the deadline for statements 'from within', taking advantage of the presidency here today and the chairmanship of the Committee on Budgetary Control. I would like all Members to hear it, and not just all those who are responsible for more general declarations 'from where you were,' that this is the last deadline. Previously, the pandemic was given a period of three months. The normal deadline was terminated under the law of the end of November, 31 November. We have given a three-month extension, and now, with my own recommendation, obviously and always approved by the President of the Parliament, the government is now moving on with the amendment and giving a new deadline of 31 March and everyone who has to know about it. I am not saying 'colleagues' because we are not just the political figures, they are also the judges, who are controlled by this committee and numbered at about five thousand, ministerial officials, government officials, but they are also a number of other controls, which are carried out by other procedures. And I stress it, because I have to tell you that all this time I have received daily calls whether to extend or to extend or not the date of deposit of the declarations 'from where you were.' I have to say to you and I am forced to do this because I have some statistics that say: on 4 March - we are 26 February - the rate of submission was 29.95%, i.e. 30%, to understand. On February 17, the figure is 37.40%, after 12 days. The more the days were approaching the end, the greater the increase in declarations. February 22nd was 42.8%, i.e. 43%, after five days now. On February 23, that is, on one day, it was 45.60%. On 26 February, that is to say today - and we have had a fall, because the communication and the tabling of an amendment took place on 24 February - we have reached 53.65%. I mean, we had a more than doubled in twenty days. What was it earlier? Nothing happened. And I'm just telling you that I counted the two days and we have an hourly fall while we had an hourly 20% increase. Now the hourly change is a 45% reduction in this weekend. Well, because the explanation is the best act, to say something for everyone to know, that 31 March ends the deadline, followed by one month, that is, by the end of April, when all the debtors can make an additional statement. What does that mean? They must have made a statement, but they can fill in or rectify some elements. So, in order to make a further statement, one must have made a statement. I don't know if you understand. Otherwise, it is subject to a fine provided for in the relevant law, Law No. 3213/2003. I considered it very important to intervene on this point in the capacity of the Chairman of the Committee on Statements on Statements Where You have been and to ask all those responsible, that is, all of us, to be consistent by the end of this deadline. In other words, a further period of four months has been given, three to one month from now on, because there is a need to put the statements back on, checks by the vows need to be carried out, and we need to be formal and in line with the law. Thank you very much. These will be written in the Minutes. I will also send a letter to all those responsible for this. And now we go to the first circle of speakers with "Webex" and Mr Savvas Anastasiades, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor. Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor for seven minutes. And please warmly have the clocks all next door, because you don't listen to the time, and please keep the time of seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u279	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we all agree that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs needs a new organisation that can respond to modern and rapidly changing conditions and needs reforms that can serve the political and economic interests of our country, promote the Greek culture and strengthen the relations and cooperation of the family with Greece. There is no doubt that these objectives serve the plan that we are debating today. Through the restructurings, the combinations, the innovations, the simplifications it introduces, it seeks to create a modern, flexible and effective shape that can monitor developments and shape policy in the near term. A fundamental reform of the new bill is the integration of the exercise of public and economic diplomacy into the new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Defence and foreign policy form the security and integrity conditions of our country. That is why I think it is very appropriate and important to set up a Department of Defensive Diplomacy. Here, Minister, I propose that the Office of Defense Diplomacy be co-operated with the High School of Inter-State War, which can also act as a producer of military diplomacy and defence policy. It is a good thing that the achievement of foreign policy objectives is a good diplomatic service, that is, human resources. The provision of continuous training and its evaluation based on its competences is what is needed. I therefore consider the restructuring of the diplomatic academy and the continuing training of diplomatic personnel to be an excellent intervention. I proposed to my committee - and I put it today - that the seat of the academy be transferred to Thessaloniki, and I explained the reasons for that. The best way of fulfilling the mission of the Centre for Foreign Policy Design could also come through its cooperation with the Aymos Peninsula Study Foundation, which has deep knowledge of Balkan issues, excellent infrastructure, staff and archives. We are now going to the interventions for the Greek Democrat, which, over time, is the enormous power of our country. This power, unfortunately, has never been able to incorporate it into the country's planning for the future. With the means and possibilities available to the democrat, it could be a living diplomacy, our foreign policy arm and our supporter of our national interests. The government's will to upgrade our relations with the migrants is given. The introduction of the casting vote, a constant and time-consuming request, was the first step. The creation of a strong General Secretariat, which will include all the actions and functions that serve Greeks abroad, is the second. I believe that all of us agree that the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic in the form, operating since 1985, had exhausted its potential and wanted restructuring, upgrading and adaptation to modern data and requirements. Consultant, religious, cultural, communication issues that concern Greeks abroad I believe that they will be dealt with better and more effectively under a single political principle. There is a reaction and doubt about the effectiveness of the new structure and each of us can have its own perception. However, no one can doubt about the government's intentions to upgrade relations between the family and the homeland through a new creative beginning. Finally, I come to the matter of the Council of Independent Hellenism, the world representation of Greeks abroad. On this subject too, the government shows its intentions to prove itself by resolving the outstandingity of about a decade. They disagree too many circles of the family. I have my thoughts too. I'm presenting them because I think we all need to help the new project. Restricting the powers of the Council of Greece to a purely advisory role, I believe it will limit its capacity for participation and representation. It should also be a pretext for it to be able to participate in financial programmes, create personalities approaches by scientific, economic, political and sport spaces. Article 453, paragraph 2, states that representatives of demilitarised and homogenous Hellenism by region shall be elected through self-organisation processes. Who creates the conditions and processes of self-organization at the beginning? Who's moving them and who's supervising them? Article 455 states that the ESA operates on own resources. And that's a question. However, a transitional period must be set for which the Greek state will bear the basic costs until the CSR starts operating and attracts the migrants. There are several issues that obviously require specialization. That is what I hope will be done through the rules of procedure during the pension period. Ladies and gentlemen, the unsuccessful past of the Greek Council should not and should not be an alibi and an excuse for us. The creation of a modern and powerful network of Greeks abroad, which is essential as ever for our country today and Hellenism in general, is an objective of the government. The government, recognizing the enormous power of the Greek diaspora, which was known as the establishment of the Greek state and played a decisive role in the preparation, launch and support of the revolution - the two hundred years of which we honour and celebrate this year - is taking a bold step towards upgrading and tightening the relations of the mother country with de-democratic Hellenism. Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u280	Thank you too, Mr Anastasiades, and the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Theodores Dritsa, for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u281	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have also heard the speech of the Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Dendia, who, in the well-known consensual way, has tried to retire all rational, seemingly or truly - arguments to defend the draft law which we are discussing at the moment on the reorganisation, organisation and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council from Presidential Hellenism and the regulation of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid. I think that some of Mr Nines' arguments, as I have said, seemingly rational, are actually looking for answers for the future and will be judged in the future, because, for example, it is not possible to think that the absorption of funds is a prerequisite to discussing what money they really need. Nor can we propose the need to reorganise to judge the necessary staffing, when the need for staffing is obvious and has shown the dimensions of the years now and is becoming increasingly acute. Now, of course, these are two examples. The issues are more complex. I think that this bill and this approach to the leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are untrue. It is characteristic and I am impressed: I do not think there is any other bill where the bodies, which were almost all invited to have serious or very serious criticisms. And we are talking about bodies that are factors and participants in the whole field and of the foreign policy structure. They're diplomats, they're specialties critical, they're too many things. As long as it is concealed, as some people are suggesting - I do not accept it like that, but I can accept it - a 'associational approach', to say it in introductory form, I think that would undermine these bodies, diplomats and workers in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and would give them a Priori. We must not approach matters like this. Obviously, they defend trade union demands, but with the same responsibility they come with one, as far as possible, holistic arguments. The Ministry and the ‘final state’ must not be a ‘fair’ state. It is clear that he did not listen to these bodies and did not compose a final product - on the basis of their views. It is a very strong and serious disadvantage in this bill, because these people will be invited to implement it. For the changes that have taken place in the course of the needs of diplomatic and foreign policy - I understand the distinctiveness of the two concepts - many things have changed and the economic sector has been strengthened. It's not new. He's not introducing this bill. More and more in recent decades, since neoliberalism has prevailed everywhere, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Diplomatic Body have become increasingly a negotiator of economic interests. The question is: Is it the public financial interests or the private interests renamed 'national interest'? We have seen too many incidents of this kind and the dignity of the Diplomatic Body must be defined, with the high adequacy that they must have in the economic sector, but in what direction. In the direction of the country's economic development strategy or the promotion of sectoral and individual private business interests? These are crucial issues. From this point of view, I am going forward - because I have no time and I must not exhaust it and go beyond it - to military diplomacy. Obviously, there are military followers, there are at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which is involved in military diplomacy, but, building a separate structure, as much as we wish, they will cooperate with the Ministry of Defence, not be fooled. They will be two different structures that will slowly create - in Greece we live - and they will find it difficult to cooperate when they have different political heads to whom they will be referring. Already the Department of Defence has military diplomacy. It has to be done much better, it has to be trained much more, it has to be developed in much more adequate terms, but it has a beamed military diplomacy between the counterparts, both the Hellenic Navy and the Air Force and the Drought Army and, by extension, the Port House in addition, where between bonds and the top level of the Armed Forces General Staff there is constant communication, which is central to military diplomacy. For this, obviously, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and especially the Minister of Foreign Affairs, together with the Minister of Defence, must have a cooperation, a beam and an interaction and a solution must be found. But building a separate structure is probably the opposite, and that is why we must be very careful. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Speaking from: Ladies and gentlemen, the issue of fraud has, in fact, the dimension of supporting the communities of Greeks, Greeks or Greeks who have recently migrated abroad and communities for their own needs, interests and rights, for relations with their country, for real coexistence in common objectives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u282	You've had enough time, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u283	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, it has another parameter that we have neglected criminally, in my opinion at least: the parameter of civil diplomacy. If we really want a peaceful policy, a development and cooperation with other peoples, with other states, a glorious field, to study terms and to discuss and consult so that from a democratic Hellenism is the ambassadors of peaceful coexistence with other peoples with whom we can now have hostile to cautious relations or anything. The diplomacy of armaments is a huge parameter and, of course, the emigrant Greek community has not looked into this sector so much. Nevertheless, there are groups among them - I've found, I've discussed in the past - who see it as a very good perspective...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u284	Don't open any more topics, Mr. Dritsa. You've had enough time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u285	I'm done, Mr. President. The National Security Council is a key issue. As regards evaluation and the Diplomatic Academy, evaluation criteria and evaluation methods must be defined before we take off and say good words about evaluation, which is generally good, but we are well aware that it is very risky. Clean things: What criteria, by what methods. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u286	Mr Athanasios Davakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the first pages of his memoirs, the then American Foreign Minister and known to us from history, Dean Anderson, characterizes the period from 1941 to 1952 as a period for American foreign policy, where the present, as he says, was just as foggy as the future. In my view, therefore, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is, as always, at the forefront of an attempt to defend our sovereign rights and our national interests. The protection of the country to secure allies is not, however, the only tasks of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The management and cultivation of our relations with the Members of the Dispersion is an equally multidimensional issue, with a key request, ladies and gentlemen, to maintain their contact with their homeland, language and traditions. I think that's a full-fledged thing from all the wings of this House. Many times, when the public debate focuses on the cultivation of relations with the Greek communities abroad, from the back there is one, I would say, working rationale for the leverage of the deceased, in the form of pressure groups to the governments of the countries in which they live. I believe that our country has not avoided this temptation, if you like, the so-called political system. This, however, is, in my view, a very limited - and lasting - concept. Greeks abroad, as we all believe, but also in my view, are a part of our country, which, to a greater or lesser extent, is a living part of a wholeness, a community with traditions, memories, institutions, structures and a sequence, if you like, of historical acts, events and decisions that link those who fall asleep with those who come. It is therefore an obligation for each state to offer to the Greek people the opportunity to maintain and maintain these ties. Based on this perception, it has been a great pleasure for me to see that the issue of relations with our revenues is being upgraded to the new structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as is seen in Articles 215 and 251. I would also like here to congratulate the political leadership, the Minister, Mr Dendia, on this particular decision and I would say a very important decision. However, our economic relations with the outside also play an important role, which I think has become very clear in recent years to all of us. In our country's attempt to get through multiple blows, the extent to which economic diplomacy can strengthen foreign direct investment will be a crucial factor. The new General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extrovert, therefore, as described in Article 159 to Article 214, and the upgrading of the role and strategic importance of economic diplomacy, reflects the Government's will to claim a piece of the pie of international investment, especially in the so-called historically introduced era, after - COVID. On this point, I would like to focus, Mr President, on two particular issues, which I believe it is useful for the political leadership to hear. I read in Articles 70 and 71 of the draft law the forecasts for the establishment and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the Office of Defensive Diplomacy, which will be directly subject to the Minister. Mr Dritsas mentioned earlier. This office, as referred to in Article 70, will act as a link between the Ministry of National Defence and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, while in its particular tasks it will be to draw up information sheets on issues relating to the military situation and security of the wider region. It is obvious, I believe, that the total number of executives mentioned in the next article, 71, is not sufficient for the autonomous collection, processing and analysis of information. I say this from experience, but also from what we experience every time in the relevant committees. In other words, it will be a matter of adapting the already existing information sheets of the OHIM Branch to the needs of the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. In this context, I believe, Minister, that the framework for the staffing of this office should, as a matter of priority, be laid down by officers who have experience in this regard in the Ministry of National Defence and who will have been through the various schools of the Armed Forces. I would also suggest that you consider returning the Hellenic Foundation for Culture to the supervision, as it was, of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. It has been mentioned by a large number of colleagues. This Foundation is the key tool for the promotion of our cultural stock internationally in all states where annexes operate. On the contrary, the mission of the Ministry of Culture, to which the Hellenic Foundation of Culture is currently subject, is located primarily within borders. Comparatively, we could say that the French Institute, which has a great deal of history, is also involved in the empire of France, but also in other such countries, of course, with colonies, etc. It is subject to the French Ministry of Foreign Affairs directly. This is the rule applicable in all similar cases. Ladies and gentlemen, the new body that this bill describes is, in my view, a very important adaptation of the structure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to the modern needs we face in these times, which our generation is facing for the first time. That is why I believe that this is a very good parliamentary exercise, which will convey consensus and I would say a national consensus, to vote in favour of all the wings of this legislative initiative, which the current leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has taken over and introduced for a vote in plenary. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u288	Thank you, Mr Davaki, and the consistency in time. The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. George Francis, has the floor for seven minutes. I would like all my fellow Members to follow the clock, because you are not listening to the sound. To keep the time of seven minutes because, as you know, the Minister for Foreign Affairs is the minister who has to fight for twenty-four hours on our national issues. And we thank him very much because, indeed, all these days are here in the House and it defends the relevant legislation. It is a good request, therefore, that we be consistent in time. Here you go, Mr. Francis, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u289	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a draft law on the organisation and operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Deputies of Hellenism and the arrangements for development cooperation and humanitarian aid. It is a draft law of four hundred eighty articles and three hundred seventeen pages to be precise. It is a piece of legislation that in a negative way contains provisions on matters that are normally regulated by presidential decrees and ministerial decisions. The creation of a new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is a very serious matter because the organization of the Ministry does not change easily. It is no coincidence that from the 1931 Freedom Venizelos Law we arrived in 1977 to change the law. A change must therefore be accompanied by appropriate arrangements and reforms aimed at facilitating and supporting Greek foreign policy. The question, which arises, is whether this bill meets the requirements of our modern and complex times, contributes to the modernisation of the Ministry and gives solutions to problems. This is a bourgeoisie, as I said before, and a very detailed draft law at a point, in fact, describes what the translation note will be, how many are the perfections and positions, etc. Is there any reason to include such details in the new organisation? Includes organograms. This means that every time a change in the establishment plan is required, for example, when an address, which is no longer considered necessary, a change in the law, should be made. How rational is that, and why should the law include organograms? Why can't the Minister decide on this? How does the new agency deal with the problem of subscribing and the Ministry's reduced budget? Establishing new structures with responsibilities, which in many cases are identified? By recommending secretaries and offices, which expel the central agency's wage and operating expenses, rather than strengthening the foreign policy of crucial importance for the representation of the country? Three hundred three diplomatic servants are serving abroad and two hundred at the central office when the proportion, which is internationally recognised as suitable, is four to one. In addition, 2020 did not introduce new diplomats into the academy. At the same time, the diplomats who leave leave behind leave uncovered gaps. You think we don't need diplomats? I would also like to refer to the Ministry's finances, which are tragic. The 2020 budget also provided for 288 million, but also used to cover the expenditure of the Presidency of the Republic, the Prime Minister in terms of customs, as well as to cover contributions to the UN, the European Union and NATO. The budget of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs shall not be sufficient, with any negative effects resulting from the fulfilment of its mission. It is therefore necessary to strengthen it. You are also abolishing the General Secretariat of European Affairs and the Coordination Directorate for European Affairs, which is the responsibility of other ministries. Why are you doing this? Even China's Directorate is being abolished. China is a superpower, which has and will continue to have a decisive role in international developments. We would like to know what led you to the decision that this address was not necessary. Finally, you do not give a solution to the very serious issue of hospital coverage. Greece is the only country in the European Union that does not provide insurance cover for its officials in countries outside the European Union. So the problem is very serious and it must be resolved. It is unacceptable for people to be troubled and for the country's prestige to be affected. The reform would also be the establishment of a permanent State Secretary for Foreign Affairs in a process, of course, which would justify his perpetuality, as our rapporteur, Andreas Loverdes, has proposed, which also mentioned the participation of the Minister for National Defence in the composition of the National Foreign Policy Council. These would be real reforms, which your bill unfortunately does not include. I fear that this bill, in its form and its content, in addition to the absence of reforms, will hamper the exercise of foreign policy, and indeed at such a critical time for the vital interests of our country. For all this, and for these reasons, we are voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr Francisco, and the consistency in time. I urge colleagues to have microphones closed and to open them only when they are given the floor. Mr Emmanuel Konsolas has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u291	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I am very happy today to take part in this debate, a very important draft law by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, which concerns the organization, operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Council of Deputies of Hellenism - those who live in areas where the depopulation is the soul of their region - but also issues relating to the regulation of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid. These issues are included in the bill. I should like to start by congratulating the Minister for Foreign Affairs, Mr Dendia, who has diligently taken care to bring this draft law to debate, which will be reflected in public opinion, but above all will be impressed on the citizens but also on the migrants, on the officials of the Ministry, but above all on the diplomatic staff, on the importance of promoting diplomacy and foreign policy with modern means and tools. Mr President, the exercise of foreign policy, in addition to strategic planning and extroversion, also presupposes the creation of an organic structure, a flexible administrative structure that will operate in support. The bill, as I said in my introduction, is being debated and voted today, and that is precisely what needs to be done and covered. The Treaties, ladies and gentlemen, have changed. We are now in a multipolar and extremely complex international environment. We live throughout the range, not only of the economy through the pandemic or through the social explosion of issues that the planet is working on. However, diplomacy is no longer carried out within the traditional framework that we have known and needed another roadmap and different directions. There are new forms of diplomacy, such as economic diplomacy and defence diplomacy, which are equally important work. There are therefore comparative advantages which we have as a country and we must make use of. And that's what Mr. Dendias has been doing lately. There are countries that have created 'lobing' movements and systems in order to influence political decisions at the level of international relations. We have a unique chapter, the democratic Hellenism, representatives of the family with strong presence and authority. The World Parliamentary Association of Hellenism, PADEEE, made up of Greek-speaking MPs from the countries abroad, is linked to the Special Permanent Committee of Hellenism of the Greek Parliament on the promotion of issues relating to democratic Hellenism. I've had the luck of participating in it for many years, and I know the facts. Mr Anastasiades, as President, in cooperation with Mr. Dendia and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, I am sure they will produce policies in the direction that we have before us. However, Minister, speaking both to you and to the President of the House, but also to other political forces, despite their different possible perceptions of the bill, I would like to say that it should also be linked to the Committee on Foreign and Security to establish a functional link with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And I mean connecting the World Interparliamentary Union of Hellenism, made up of the Members who have told you and we all know. In December of this year the United States imposed substantial sanctions on Turkey for the purchase and testing of the S-400 system from Russia, which poses a threat to the entire Western security system. I am making this reference because in this decision, the awareness and information of the American public about this threat, but above all, in the resolution of the relevant law, they have contributed decisive factors of the family. And that cannot be overcome by Greeks, whether in the territory or outside the territory of the country. This shows the size of the dynamics of the family. This is a size that we must use in coordination, close cooperation and lasting support. In this sense, the reopening of the Greek Council, as provided for by the bill, is an undeniable positive direction and a development that I think is expected of both the relatives and politicians within and outside Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the Foreign Ministry's bill creates a new organisational structure which gives an advantage in the exercise of foreign policy but also in the functioning of the ministry's structures, both internally and abroad. The establishment of a new General Secretariat for International Economic Relations and Extroverty restores distortion, since economic diplomacy must come under the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. And, despite the different voices, you will find that in this direction it will move at a rapid pace and the results will be extremely positive. In the same direction, the establishment of the General Secretariat of Greek Prime Minister and Public Diplomacy is being initiated. In essence, economic diplomacy, public diplomacy and Greekism are areas of activity which are designed and coordinated by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The new establishment plan does not create new structures. On the contrary, it creates a flexible administrative structure, after the addresses are reduced from sixty-five to forty-eight, the sections are reduced from one hundred to sixty-seven, the services are reduced directly to the Minister from nineteen to twelve. The new addresses include the Coordination Directorate and the New Directorate for Strategic and Operational Planning. In this context, innovation, which is the creation of a coordination structure between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Defence, as well as the creation of a Department of Defense Diplomacy. Ladies and gentlemen, defence relations and agreements and armaments are the subject of defence diplomacy and are now linked to foreign policy and foreign policy. Greece must acquire an extroverted defensive diplomacy and dynamical features, which will inspire respect and credibility, will be linked to mutual support for national interests with other countries and will give strong signals to other countries that conclude defensive agreements against the territorial integrity of our country. They all realize exactly what I mean and I don't need to go any further into this report. So the effort of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Mr Treasury to impose a potential arms embargo on Turkey, since it continues its destabilising policy in the Eastern Mediterranean and the threats to the sovereign rights of two countries - members of the European Union, is in the right direction and I would like to congratulate him. They are an expression of the country's defensive diplomacy and every country that wants to enter into defensive agreements with us must take account of this data. That is why we from the Dodecanese, from the last of the Aegean, call on the neighboring country to move towards what is united us and the Aegean to become the sea of peace and cooperation. The Department of Foreign Affairs has worked quite a bit in this direction. Because this bill, as I said in my report and in my introduction, is moving in the direction we want, I believe that all political parties and parties must see the choice to vote consensually and to see these national policy parameters as a national policy. Finally, Mr President, let me make a reference...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Consola, I'm sorry, but I won't allow you to have enough time. Please close with one last paragraph. I said keep time on the clock because we're having trouble with the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u293	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to say that the Treasury has tabled an amendment. It's in the right direction. I would also ask the Ministry of Finance to incorporate into this philosophy and the motorists and professional trucks. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u294	Thank you, Mr. Consola. I will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister of Labour, Mr Tsakloglu, in order to make it clear in relation to Amendment No 766 and number 7 specific. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Labour brings two important regulations to the vote, which support large parts of the workers, their employers and the unemployed during the difficult period of our pandemic. I am referring to Articles 3 and 4 of Amendment 766/7, which the President mentioned earlier. I will start backwards from Article 4 which provides for the extension of insurance capacity, i.e. access to medical care, for one year for all workers and indirect insured members of their families. This article extends their insurance capacity for the following year, i.e. from 1 March to 28 February 2022. This is how we primarily want to cover the workers who within the COVID pandemic -19 joined specific support schemes and for whom insurance contributions were covered by the state budget. I mention, for example, workers who have the right to re-entry into seasonal, tourist, artist and professionals of art and also workers who have been suspended in the areas affected by the 'January' and the Samos earthquake. At the same time, we are prolonging the insurance coverage of the categories that have already been taken care of in previous years by regulation, such as the long-term unemployed and the workers in Scaramaga and the ship repair zone. I would like to stress that the EEA budget will be supported by an exceptional grant for any recent burden caused by an increase in the number of beneficiaries of the Agency's services. Now Article 3 of the amendment concerns the extension until 31 March 2021, that is to say, of the period during which employers' contributions to the insurance of workers who have been included in the Compensation for WORK and enterprises in the tertiary sector and in the air and sea transport sectors are covered by the State budget under the conditions laid down in Article 123 of Law No4714/20. Ladies and gentlemen, through these extensions we continue the support measures for workers. We recognise that the year that passed was a particularly unusual year, which disturbed the work path of all workers and overturned the plans of many businesses. We have already supported in various ways a very large part of the workers and businesses in the country and we are constantly proving our readiness to intervene where necessary. I would remind you that, so far, the total number of beneficiaries of the employment support programmes planned and implemented by the Ministry of Labour exceeds one million and fifty thousand people, that is, the vast majority of private sector employees, but also a significant part of the self-employed. At the same time, the measures to support our unemployed fellow citizens have also been strengthened. For these reasons, I would urge you to vote in favour of the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u296	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the list, with SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenides. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u297	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall start with the amendment, which the Secretary-General has just spoken about. Since, as the Minister himself admitted, the situation we are experiencing has affected all the workers, in my opinion, and the interventions of the Government, in respect of insurance contributions, must cover all the workers. Ladies and gentlemen, since the beginning of the country's governance under this government, an attempt has been made to overconcentrate the powers of the Maximos Mansion. With the famous final state bill, extremely critical political and executive powers were transferred from national security to... (not heard because of bad connection), to a distinct body under Mr. Mitsotakis himself. I note and stand out the choice of the President of the Transparency Authority by the Prime Minister without any guarantee of impartiality, credibility and integrity. I note the opportunity given to the general and special secretaries to set up committees or working groups, including private experts. In fact, there are a few questions: How many committees and how many working groups have secretaries set up to date? Why has Parliament and the public not been informed so far? How much has private experts cost the state? The state's budget bucket was unfolded in the education bill, where 20 million euros per year are planned for special guards at universities, but it did not make a single euro for research into public universities. It is of course enough for all this state to reach the sinful history of the Director of the National Theatre. Why do I quote all this? Because, in my opinion, all the draft laws of the government which come and concern the functioning of the state are aspects of the same currency. They are elements of the same mix of policy, the political choice of the Government of New Democracy. We are talking about a complex and bureaucratic grid of structures which promote a centralism together with the absence of brave funding at the core of the state's public system. Minister, in my opinion this draft law on the organizational chart of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs was unable to escape from this clone, from this direction of government policy. Within a set of four hundred eighty articles you are creating a dysfunctional shape with a strong centralized service - let me express - with carats and mergers of foreign policy criticals and without any substantial change in our diplomatic principles abroad. Of course, in this effort you have not actually taken into account the institutions we have heard, the people, that is, the Ministry itself. Let's give them the floor for a while. What did the diplomatic officers say here in the House? The demonic and massive text of this bill shows ambiguity and it is difficult to implement it. It shall not contain any provision for simplification or digitisation of the external service services provided and shall not be a text of reform and innovation or simplification of economic and administrative procedures and actions. The main thing I would like to note, beyond the point made by the diplomatic staff, is that they did not receive any substantial response or commitment. As far as the addresses are concerned, the officials themselves ask 'how is it possible that the United States Department be in the same direction as Latin American officials?' Furthermore, there can be no strategic planning director at the Ministry of Foreign Affairs because if there is a reasonable question. What is the reason for the political directorates, which by their very nature carry out similar planning? And, of course, the commitment of the government's policy is your direction, Minister. We have no welfare for a National Security Council. We don't want a personal counsel of the Prime Minister. We want an organised structure, a National Security Council, which will institutionalise the area of strategic management. You prefer the National Security Counsellor for the Prime Minister without a structure, without an institutional relationship between the two Ministries of Foreign Affairs and Defence. The debate in the committees, ladies and gentlemen, has raised two issues which I would like to address just before I close my position. The first is the issue of subscribing. I cannot avoid temptation to compare the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and their staffing with the neighbor from the east. Turkey is sixth in terms of the number of diplomatic services and diplomats in the world, and we have five hundred diplomats in total of nine hundred twenty organic positions, that is about half of them and with a special problem of subscribing foreign authorities. And go ahead and bring in this organogram draft law without having solved such a matter. At this point I would point out that I support, of course, the amendment we tabled, the specific amendment tabled by SYRIZA to the hospitalisation of the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, who are serving in the Ministry's external department and the payment of medical expenses to countries which either do not have public health or exist but do not have the transnational relationship or agreement with Greece. The second issue, which was raised in the committee debate, to a certain extent, I would also say in plenary - I have been following the debate since this morning - was the issue of sub-financing. The last budget amounts to 288 million. It took a brave financial support, but above all a different logic. Let's give the floor again to the Ministry's employees. The President of the Association of Officials for Economic and Commercial Affairs stressed: "Each euro invested in supporting and promoting exports and the submission of investments adds 10 euros to the national economy." In other words, a euro adds 10 euros to the national economy. And one question arises as to how to define a policy when, even in this four hundred eighty-eight articles, there is neither provision for the elementary provision of expenditure to promote Greek products and for investment to be made to the officials responsible for them. That is why I am saying - and I stressed this - that we need another logic, another political direction. To stop the public finally shooting his own legs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u298	Finish, Mr. Igoumenides. You're over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u299	I shall conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds. Thank you for your tolerance. Minister, I think that the ideological obsessions of your government for a neoliberal end-of-date state to be established in the country will not let you move into the intersection that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs really needs. In fact, not just keep a ministry, but also its people, who have much more potential, and, in my opinion, also visions of your country's homeland and foreign policy. Your ideological obsession in the final state, as you can imagine, and as you have shown us with all the bills that your Government has brought so far, restricts just the horizons and people of the Ministry and the overall perspective of the country's foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u300	We continue with Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, Member of the New Democracy. Hot to all, keep the time of seven minutes. Because you don't hear the sound from the room, put the clock next to you. Mr. Nicolakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u301	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is extremely important, necessary and essential not only for the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, but above all for our foreign policy, which must be adapted to the new circumstances. External policy with specific strategy and diplomatic planning and with basic pillars of international relations, economic relations, extroversion, from democrat Hellenism and public diplomacy. These pillars are also the strong foundations of the draft law for a modern foreign policy, not only to halt Turkish provocation, which in recent days has been coming back to the fore, since dialogue in the context of the exploratory contacts no longer leaves Turkey the room to raise the claims and is now trying to provoke them. A modern policy must also focus on economic diplomacy. This has been the target of the Prime Minister, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Government. An economic diplomacy in the standards of developed countries, which will create the right framework and pave the way for new investments and at the same time open up new opportunities for Greek traders and entrepreneurs to export their products to foreign markets. This draft law integrates economic diplomacy at the core of the operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and as an integral part of foreign policy. With the reference to ENTERPRISE GREECE, it will play an important and multi-faceted role, not only in attracting investors, but also in coordinating the candidate investors and the public bodies involved. It is institutionally linked to the Greek embassies and economic and commercial affairs offices around the world. With a vehicle, too, a new General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extroversion is being created in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The framework for export trade and the promotion of exports with specific objectives and indicators shall be modernised. The difficulties created by the lack of coordination of many responsibilities are essentially addressed. Cooperation with all the public and private sectors concerned, such as regions and chambers, is widened. Technical assistance is also provided to any undertaking wishing to become export. We can create conditions to highlight the comparative advantages of Greek businesses and to exploit the dynamics of Greek exporters, achieving and increasing in the post-COVID era. A major and critical objective is to increase exports to 48% as a percentage of GDP by 2023, from 37% in 2019 to major strategic investments. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law leads to a restructuring of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. However, I would particularly like to dwell on specific basic provisions. Innovation is the creation of a centre for foreign policy planning. This creates, in cooperation with academic institutions, a pool of thought to provide scientific support and prepare the strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We seek a new scientific and modern diplomacy that will strengthen the Ministry's foreign policy. The Qualified Opposition to date is constantly accusing of a lack of strategy. It does not see the strong alliances that we are concluding, the agreements that have not been resolved for years, such as agreements with Egypt, Italy and Albania, strategic cooperation with strong countries, the gradual expansion of the yacht zone, the clear condemnation of Turkey's behaviour by international organisations, the strengthening of our Armed Forces. Since it does not see all of this, let us at least see the obvious benefit that results in the form of a long-term national strategy since the adoption of these provisions of this draft law. Another point of the draft law, which is of the utmost importance, is the creation of an Office of Defensive Diplomacy. According to Articles 70 and 71, it is the most important coordination structure between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. It is two ministries with a decisive role in defending our national interests, which mutual cooperation is essential. Ladies and gentlemen, I must also refer to the Ministry's soul, the Greek diplomats, the people of the Ministry who over time manipulate the interests, stability and development of our country. That is why we must make a real contribution to their timeless and difficult work. Many times they are called upon to send our foreign policy missions to five continents, which, as you can see, entails many dangers. Covering their expenses from accidents, hospital care and medical care is absolutely essential and necessary, which further strengthens the need to increase the Ministry's budget in order to be able to effectively exercise and respond to this service, as well as to all its new, expanded responsibilities. Another important point of reference for this draft law is this, which concerns the functioning of the de-democratic Hellenism which is placed at the centre of the activities of the Ministry by creating a new powerful Secretariat from the Republic of Hellenism, and the reopening of the Board of Democrat Hellenism provided for in Article 108 of the Constitution, as an advisory body for issues relating to democratic and homogenous culture, which are a strategic priority for our country. We strengthen the role of democratic Hellenism and of the family and strengthen the international image of our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the government, the Prime Minister and the Minister of Foreign Affairs have put foreign policy at the forefront of the reforms. The restructuring of the mechanism and mode of operation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, regulated in this draft law, lead to the modernisation of the organisation, the immediate activation of its tools, the investment in human resources and the faster and more effective diplomacy. The extroversion of our country strengthens and our state is even stronger. I therefore urge you to vote on this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I am so sorry. I would like to take the floor on an important matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u304	Here you go, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u305	This can't go on. Amendments are being tabled at the last minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u306	You're an old parliamentarian. I have the impression you don't see that for the first time. Study a little, Mr. Amanatidis. I will give the floor first to the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Maraveya, and then the Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis, will take the floor in order to put him on the amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u307	Will you accept the amendment from the Ministry of the Interior?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u308	I saw her, too, Mr. Amanatidis. Look at her a little. It's a half a page. I read it. And you can read it and all of us and say after your objections, if you have it. Mr. Maraveya, you have the floor, I remind you for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u309	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the new organization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and about how our country will strengthen its extroversion, how it will see the world better and how the world will have a better picture for Greece itself. This, moreover, is the mission of the Greek Diplomatic Body, which internationally gives the best example with its professionalism. In this effort, not only Greek diplomats and the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs participate. Everyone must make a contribution to the extent of their potential. Of course, we politicians should also contribute to this. What we say here in the House, as well as what is on the Internet about the Greek political scene, is often reproduced in a foreign media, creating impressions. In other words, both the parties and we MPs are responsible for how our country is being projected abroad, that is, if Greece appears as a state of serious, structured and integrated into European political culture or not. I am afraid, Minister, that, unfortunately, the Prime Minister's efforts in this Chamber yesterday to keep political dialogue away from the mud found no response from SYRIZA. And this is seen by the ongoing recycling of the known troll waste water and not just. I am referring, of course, to the Lignadis case and to the party identities not only of the anonymous professionals of mud, but of the surnamed politicians, as Mr Paulakis unfortunately does. The problem of Mr Polakis and Mr SYRIZA was - he says - because he dealt with Mr Mitsotakis with unaccompanied children, because he personally arranged for a special secretariat to be set up at the Ministry of Immigration to protect unaccompanied minors. The Prime Minister's own interest in the most vulnerable, the small immigrants who come to our country is epilepsy, Mr. Paulakis and his own. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] These incredible athletics, unfortunately, now move internationally, harming Greece's image and helping those who want to undermine it. That is why, Minister, I repeat that the promotion of a serious image of Greece abroad is not only the responsibility of the foreign ministry. All of us here must not just abstain from outdated muddler tactics, but we must also contribute to a better public debate and - why not - to help with today's policy of strengthening our country's international representative. This is exactly where the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is moving with this bill. With a view to continuously upgrading the country's international position, the draft law under discussion contributes to modernising the organisation of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its structures. I will stand, Minister, in its sixth part, on the use of global Hellenism through the relaunch of the Board of Dispute Hellenism. After all, its function is a constitutional check. At the same time, this is a particularly topical issue of celebration in a month of the two hundred years since the Greek Revolution, a liberation struggle for the whole of our nation, which I recall began outside the limits of today's Greek territory. Two weeks ago, in the Committee of Presidential Hellenism of the Parliament, we were pleased to welcome the presidencies of the World Confederation of Thessalonica and the World Thessalian Youth. As the representatives of democrat Hellenism said, the need to reopen the CSCE was uncertain. My friends from Thessaly described the difficulties of coordinating Greek organizations abroad when there is a need to mobilise a large scale. A characteristic example is the international campaign to highlight the importance of the Revolution of 1821, on the occasion of the completion of two centuries of national regenerativeism. As we know, in the absence of a global coordination centre, this role has been played by the Commission 'Greece 2021', a worthwhile initiative by civil society. However, despite the valuable efforts made by this committee, the external results were not the expected results. The pandemic, which prevented the organization of many events and information activities, also played a role. However, our relatives' criticism remains strong, especially when it comes to the non-funding of educational events of the diaspora by the Commission "Greece 2021" especially for the Thessaloniki organizations abroad, which are very active and present documented proposals. Mr President, I would like to remind you of a leading, indeed, initiative by the government, which concerns the relatives and is not the vote of the Greeks abroad. The Greek community is an important and often unexploited advantage of our country. But someone to feel part of the joint effort must also be involved in making decisions. This self-evident need to be involved by giving the electoral right was supported by the New Democracy and nothing more. There are, of course, colleagues from SYRIZA who identify this participation with nationalist extreme right-wing networks of the same family. Perhaps one is confusing the electoral procedures with the experience of SYRIZA from working with nationalist extreme right-wing networks, such as the former party of Mr Kammenos. Evidently, a person himself judges the perverse ones and obviously offends the family by assimilating it with extreme right - right structures. But it does not matter, because the bill on these behaviours will come in about two years from now for SYRIZA in the next national election. In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to say very briefly - if you may allow me - that of the Ministry of Finance's amendment to tourist buses, which has once again demonstrated its social reflexes. Relief of the owners of tourist buses by 50% reduction in their traffic charges is important and necessary due to the major economic losses brought by the krone in the tourism sector. I hope that Mr Staikoras will see the requests made by the buses at a later stage for further exemptions, also concerning the other categories of tourist buses. I would like, here, to thank the State Secretary responsible, Mr Kefaliannis, for his direct intervention in favour of businesses, which have special public tourist buses. The option now extended retroactively from 1 January 2021 to 31 May 2021 to temporarily deposit the registration and registration plates of their vehicles permits their temporary immobilisation for both the current six-month period and hence the substantial reduction in traffic charges, which will ultimately be paid by the owners of tourist buses for 2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, too. Mr Vorides has the floor to develop an amendment which he has tabled.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u311	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I should like to justify the delay, which consists of having two deadlines. The two provisions have two deadlines, which expire on 28 February. There is therefore an urgent reason for this regulation so that there is no hindrance to public service.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u312	What article is this? In Article 1?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u313	It's both in Article 1 and Article 2. I'll explain right now, Mr. Amanatidis. Article 1 is an extension of existing rules which expires on 28 February and which gave legal status to the Staff Regulations, mainly for the purpose of their establishment, in order to involve the representatives of the employees. Why is that now? Because workers' representatives cannot be elected because, because of the restrictive measures taken by the pandemic, the assemblies cannot be held. There is, of course, the possibility of an electronic vote, but this is an opportunity for the workers who can exercise it, perhaps not. So in order to be able to choose not to exercise it, if that is what they want for reasons of their own, which have to do with the organisation of their representation, we must extend until 30 June 2021, which is an estimate that we will have a lifting of the restrictive measures. We must prolong workers' representation on the service councils as they stand today. Otherwise, we would have a problem of legal formation of the service councils. So that covers Article 1. In Article 2, what is happening is that, in fact, because I say that it has a deadline - the mobility cycle, which has been opened, is closed on 28 February. We are giving a short deadline by 8 March in order to provide information from bodies which have not yet submitted it. At the same time, however, it has been established by the way in which the current mobility cycle has evolved that there is a significant transfer of staff from small municipalities below twenty-fifths and so this can create operating problems. We are trying to deal with these issues, which have emerged in the current mobility cycle, by increasing the coverage rate, that is, what really needs to be left. There is already an existing provision, which requires 65% to allow for the movement. We are increasing this percentage to the small municipalities to 80%. Therefore, this is also a regulation aimed at the proper functioning of small municipalities. The third article, which also has the deadline until 30-6-2021, obviously enables legal persons governed by public law to hold general meetings and take decisions on rotation based on a reasoned decision of their board of directors. This is something that is essentially called for by chambers. In this regard, the request relates specifically to the Chamber of Economic Affairs. He has to make his assembly. He can't make his assembly because of a coronary. We give him the opportunity, by decision of the board of directors, to meet the assembly and to take a decision on rotation. These are the three provisions without problems and difficulties. I therefore call on the House to approve them. And, of course, I think there is a clear need, the urgent need, which we have to cover here, and that is why we also ask you to justify the late and urgent submission of this amendment. As you know, especially the Ministry of Interior, and especially I, as far as possible, are trying to avoid this, but we had no more bills and we didn't have a bill of our own to regulate these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u314	Mr President, I request the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u315	Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u316	On the amendment, Mr President, I asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. First of all, I think that although there is indeed the expiry of deadlines for Articles 1 and 3, as you said, you should have made sure that the amendment comes earlier, so that we can discuss it more appropriately and with the presence of colleagues who are members of the committee concerned. At least, you could have informed the party leaders that there was no such surprise. I would like to ask you the following questions, and, if necessary, to accept some of the amendments which I am going to put to you, in view of which we can also amend our position, which, first of all, is negative. My first point is in Article 1. The previous extension of the term of office of the constituents was for two months. Now go to a bigger extension, for four. I think it would be more reasonable to repeat the previous two-month extension. Article 2 is a technical issue and I do not have a deep knowledge of the mobility system that you are amending. I note, however, that you do not only introduce regulation for the pandemic period. Insert a general arrangement. My remark would therefore only be to introduce regulation in the light of the pandemic, if you are invoking urgency, rather than a regulation, which concerns the permanent characteristics of this particular mode of mobility. The most problematic, because it seems a little contradictory, is Article 3. In the explanatory memorandum, you say that it relates to collective management bodies, which have more than seven members. There's no mention of the seven members in the adjustment body. Furthermore, while it seems reasonable to me that, at the request of collective legal persons who have a trade union function, they have general assemblies, they have the regulation, as you say, not only of general meetings, but also of administrative boards. As far as the administrative boards are concerned, it will be impossible to apply the regulation for the simple reason that prior decision of the board of directors is needed to implement the regulation. Therefore, by definition, it cannot be applied to management boards. Therefore, my point here is to locate it at the general conventions. I do not think that there is a need for the number of seven for the simple reason that it will not be possible to implement it if a decision of the Management Board is needed to do so. These are my remarks, therefore, and it would be good if such plans were not to be repeated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u317	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u318	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u319	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u320	Yes, of course. On the question of why the extension is until 30 June, it is because there is an assessment - we do not want to see Parliament again again - and it is up to 30 June. Obviously, if there is a possibility, it is also the desire of the trade unions themselves who want to go to the process of raising their representatives to the service councils. It is simply not possible because of the restrictive measures. If the restrictive measures, the trade unions themselves, are to be elected by their representatives at the service councils at any time. We simply do not think that it is right, Mr Katrugale, that we should keep working for Parliament, that we should give two months and then come back and ask you for another two months. So I think that we cover it there and in view of the very fact that this provision is possible. We are not saying that it should be extended. Any time the unions want to be able to choose their representatives. However, we must enable them to meet, to form, to make their assemblies, to process in the way that has to be done. So this is our first approach to this. In the second I would simply call on you - you are absolutely justified - to find that this arrangement applies only to the 2020 cycle. The 2020 mobility cycle is not being introduced here. See paragraph 3 exclusively for the mobility cycle of the year 2020. The 2020 mobility cycle has been closed on 31 December. What we are doing now is actually the rest of the process. So it should have finished February 28th. We are giving a small extension until 8 March, until the next Monday, for those who have not been able to complete the process in order to complete the process. But this excellent regulation, that is, 80%, only reaches for this cycle. It is therefore not a general rule. The cycle that we are going to open now, in the next few days, the 2021 mobility cycle will go with the general regulations, although we may be concerned with legislative improvements in this 2021 cycle, because we need to improve the mobility mechanism. As regards the latter, I have no objection to accepting this legislative intervention. In my opinion, of course, it is only from the reading and the context resulting from this provision that it concerns general meetings. Why am I saying that? Because this requires an administrative board decision. So it is not possible for the board of directors not to come together in person, since this will be missing - let me say so - the rotation of the board. It requires a decision of the Management Board to decide on the general meeting. The Board of Directors may not come together in person in order to decide on his own motion, on the decision of his own. I therefore consider that interpretatively, there is no doubt. But if you're judging that we have to do a piece of legislation to narrow it down, we have to do it. There's no point. I would like to expressly say to you - and this is registered as the will of the legislator, so to speak - that this concerns the general assemblies of legal entities governed by public law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u321	Ladies and gentlemen, we shall continue. We still have four speakers, and then there will be a denunciation of special speakers. Mrs. Jackie has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u322	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debates on the Foreign Ministry's bill on its new agency are being concluded today, which is supposed to try to facilitate and support the more effective exercise of the Ministry's actions and actions, which are aimed solely at promoting our national interests and, indeed, at a time when our national issues have to be high on our agenda. Mr. Minister of Foreign Affairs, after the "ORUC REIS" that dealt with us throughout the summer, TSMEME cuts off walks in the Aegean between Limnos, Skyros and Alonissos, and we are simply watching around. Turkey is, in fact, preparing to launch the large-scale maritime exercise GALAZIA PATRIDA with over eighty Turkish ships in the Aegean Sea. In fact, while the illegal Turkish NAVTEX was issued at a time when our two countries were supposed to have committed themselves to efforts to reduce tensions and strengthen exploratory contacts, Turkey began with the "ORUC REIS" on the Greek continent to have shaped a framework of retaliatory action on its part and continued with TSEME in the Aegean, resulting in the negative climate that had already deteriorated. What is going on in the Aegean, Mr. Dendia? We heard the Turkish President delirium after GALAZIA PATRIDA and the "sea of the islands". We heard about the neighbor's intention to set up artificial islands. The Greek Government, on the other hand, did not oppose Turkey's actions as much as it should. And don't tell me he did a homework with the State Department. How did we not fight them through Twitter? This latter could even appear as a great national victory if Mr Mitsotakis gave some more money to the channels! Minister, events are hailing against our country at all levels and we are simply watching. We're not doing anything. Indeed, Mr Papaioannou, the spokesman of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs told us the day before yesterday that Greece had proposed a date for the next round of the exploratory talks, without even having received a reply from Turkey. We have waited and continue to await the sanctions that the European Union was supposed to impose on Turkey. The diplomatic failure of our country, Mr Dendia, that is to say that the European Union does not penalise Turkey, is because you are pretending to want these sanctions, because if you really wanted them, through a Council of Political Heads or even a consensus of the political parties, you would strongly highlight the Greek positions. Instead, the European Union is deciding sanctions against Russia and Belarus, even with our support. The worst thing is that every time the Turkish President, in introductory words, talks with German Chancellor, the next day something is happening. Instead of being reassured as if nothing were happening, we must react very strongly and our reactions finally bring the desired results. Of course, as if you were the Minister for Foreign Affairs of Switzerland or Luxembourg, you are roaming around the world and incompletely, let me say the way in which our neighbours use all their weapons at all levels. As far as the bill is concerned, I should like to focus on the following: its massive size, which is four hundred eighty articles, the short period of public consultation, the zero consultation with the employees of the Ministry, and indeed all the branches and addresses, the attempted changes in organisational pattern, the mergers of services and the creation of new ones, overlapping of responsibilities, subscribing and funding. Indeed, Minister, you made statements that the 288 million were not enough, but requested from the General Accounting Office of the State, when 90% was added, additional funding, which the Ministry could not absorb. Do you think that with such statements, can you claim greater money for the Ministry's budget from the Ministerial Council? For my part, in the debate in the committees, I have already highlighted the need for the Directorate-General for International Economic and Commercial Policy to be rationalised by the former Ministry of Economy and Development in the Secretariat-General of International Economic Relations and Extroversion. This in practice means the appropriate organisational structure of the Second Directorate-General, so that the responsibilities can be shared in a level playing field and avoid shortcomings and overlaps. However, the incorporation process will ultimately not create the conditions for the development of synergies between the combined services. Furthermore, the aim is to develop and upgrade skilled and human resources from the former Ministry of Economy and Development is also not achieved. The creation of a new branch of the Administrative and Economic Department, which will comprise a very small number of employees, transferred by the former Ministry of Economy and Development, which will numerically declining over time, is a negative development for these people, who will in practice be deprived of the rights they already hold and are treated as new entrants in the workplace, while having valuable work experience. We will have exactly the opposite results of what we would like, namely dissatisfied people who, instead of transferring their valuable expertise, will be looking for a way out. In this respect, we have even proposed legislative improvements to Articles 424 and 449. We want to maintain the self-sufficiency of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic in order to upgrade this public service - a symbol for the remote Greeks. Its intended association with the General Secretariat of Public Diplomacy, even when this organization continues to raise the specific problem of subsistence of the principles of foreign affairs, we cannot understand how it will strengthen democratic Hellenism. Articles 215 to 247 require a review and, in particular, a new design towards the self-sufficiency of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic and with its own organisation of operation. The re-energisation of the Council by the Presidential Hellenism, the SAP, is very important. However, there must also be corrective action here. There has been a lack of consultation, which is also addressed by the whole homogenous formula and by all the homogenous organizations. In Article 453 it was apparent that there was no proportionality between the representatives and the Greeks who live in the geographical compartments around the world. You can understand, Minister, that our consensus has been made available. However, we have in front of us a bill, which in very difficult circumstances will add further problems instead of giving solutions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, too. Mrs Dionysia Agrinopoulou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u324	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill which is of major importance, as it concerns the regulation of the operation of a very important ministry in our country, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs and its human resources are managed - and indeed are at the forefront - by important bilateral and multilateral issues, as well as issues of an important part of Hellenism, the deceased Greeks, and that is why it should be best equipped, impeccablely organised, functional and effective. It must therefore be appropriate to give it the guarantees that it is fully and effectively operated. The first part of the operating regulation provides for the structure of the Ministry in three organisational pillars: international relations, economic relations and extroversion and the issues of a manifestation of Hellenism. International relations are the hard core of the work of the Ministry, which our diplomats and the Ministry's potential serve extremely well. Our country has bilateral issues in the wider region of the Eastern Mediterranean with our neighbours, but also our bilateral relations with countries of national interest. Furthermore, multilateral diplomacy, within the framework of the UN and other international organisations, is of primary importance for our country. With our active and effective involvement, it ensures the international rule of law which safeguards the fairness of all states, small and large. That is why the office should be properly upgraded, but it should also be appropriately deployed to promote national candidates for the election of Greeks to international and supranational organisations, as it does. Furthermore, the addresses are right to organise at regional level and to reduce some of the addresses, which concern only one country, as now in the context of multilateral diplomacy the states are treated as groups, they are placed or they vote on very important issues in the UN and with this organisation we are being better informed and negotiated with them. With the second pillar, with the upgrading of economic diplomacy and its assumption by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the Ministry moves in the right direction. Countries with significant economic growth and a footprint in international economic relations tend to come under the relevant theme in their Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We need to develop high-speed economic diplomacy, especially today when our country is becoming a safe health country, with a minimum of political risk of investment, with areas in its tax system, which has now become attractive, but also a country whose identity is rediscovered by international investors, but also by individual citizens of other states, who are thinking of moving and working for their companies abroad, while staying in Greece through digital passports. In addition, let us bear in mind that an increasing volume of cash flow, which is internationally available, is addressed to the so-called sustainable and responsible investments that our country needs and invites and which aim to promote the environmental and climate agenda. Our country has all the potential and now all the guarantees to attract this type of investment. It is of particular importance, of course, that the re-activation of the Council from the Republic of Greece is also of particular importance. The Greeks are one of the most important and inexhaustible forces of the Greek nation. The Greeks are possessed by great love for their homeland and enthusiastic desire to support this country. In conjunction with the activation of the votes of the deceased Greeks, I would say that this is a subject of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the most important, which must have a broader debate and, in the light of our Parliament, in the coming period. In conclusion, you will allow me as a MEP of the Ilias Prefecture to pass on a consistent request from the local society of Elias and Olympia, which may be heard for the first time in the Greek Parliament, but locally, especially in Olympia, is an epic one. It is a request for the establishment of a regional agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs for the Olympic and international truce, based in ancient Olympia. Alternatively, Minister and ladies and gentlemen, we could only define a diplomat, perhaps from the Department of International Organisations, who oversee issues of olympism and truce and in collaboration with the stakeholders, namely the Municipality of Ancient Olympia, who has in practice an informal diplomatic role during the Olympic Games and during the preparation for the Olympic Games, the Region of Western Greece, which for the first time established a position of Vice-Regional Olympia and Sport, the International Olympic Truce Centre, the Greek and the International Olympic Committee. To assist through this diplomacy and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that the voice of Greece and Olympia, the messages of peace and truce, the noble speech and the well-being, which is the modern concentrated message of sustainable development worldwide, can be heard even more internationally, and this soft, mild, but brilliant power of Greece, the Greek philosophy to reap. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u325	Thank you. Mrs. Olympia Tyloridou from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u326	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the period during which we are confronted with all the states and all the peoples in the face of a new reality, as the health crisis, which is not limited to borders, has shown. At the same time, our country has to deal with the consequences of this pandemic, economic and social, climate change, the refugee crisis and also, lasting and growing challenges on Turkey's part. At a time when geopolitical stability is a matter both at regional and international level, we have to show our own priorities for defending our national security, while always respecting international law, by strengthening the dialogue between cooperation and friendship with the other peoples and by continuing to upgrade our country's role as a force for stability of peace and solidarity in the Mediterranean and in the European Union as well as internationally. In this context, the new Agency of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs should respond to the current challenges and free the country's possibilities by giving those who serve the country's foreign policy, resources, instruments and mechanisms for the successful outcome of this effort. The Agency's change in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is therefore an opportunity to have planning with organisational structure, which will contribute to a more effective administrative function and to the support of the people who serve it. We all know and we all agree that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is the first-line ministry to promote national interests and the image of our country. However, this requires, first of all, the improvement of operation, the improvement of the staff of the general consulates, consular posts and consular authorities, as has been pointed out by the Association of Diplomatic Officials. The reduction in the organic positions of diplomats is not a good development. Instead of at this critical time contributing to the coverage of organic positions, even progressively, the government comes and abolishes a hundred and twenty positions from them, jeopardizing the necessary future staffing. There needs to be an increase in staff and, at the same time, the modernisation of technical and mechanical equipment. It is really very bad in the era of the fourth technological revolution that the services, which support the country's foreign policy, have substantiated equipment. Greek diplomats have knowledge and skills. But they need support, both moral and material, for doing their work. At the same time, people who serve home at all the lengths and backs of the earth must have the support of the Greek state at all levels and, as has been mentioned by other SYRIZA colleagues, especially in their medical care where there is a problem. We believe that the merging of political directions leads to difficulties in developing bilateral relations with very important countries such as Germany, France, Italy and even China. What is needed is the development of extroversion through modern diplomatic structures and instead, we see in this new design that they are being merged. Also, as our rapporteur said, it is very important, in our view, that the National Security Council should be established. We believe that this is necessary to create a coherent strategic planning. The absence of such a collective body from this bill at this critical juncture shows that the Government of New Democracy does not pay due attention to the development of a high-level plan to defend national interests. There are, however, some issues that not only go ahead, but decades back. A characteristic example is the deterioration of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic and its transformation into a general address. We're turning time back to 1983, almost forty years ago. And while, on the one hand, we are giving the right to vote on the people, on the other hand, we remove the possibility of promoting their issues through an autonomous structure in the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I believe that the abolition of the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic is an insult to the Greeks. The General Secretariat wants reinforcement, not degradation. It is a complex point of reference from the Greek Democratic Republic, as it constitutes its institutional link with Greece. By choosing to abolish it, even the systematic work, which had been done over the past few years by the staffing capacity working in it, is deceived. The General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic has contributed a great deal to the strengthening of relations between the endorses with the country, to the implementation of a series of cultural and educational programmes in cooperation with other ministries and has contributed very much to the resolution of issues that concern our relatives in various areas. We believe this regression is wrong and you will understand it very quickly. The Hellenism of the Diaspora and the family are a valuable force for our country and it needs a strong secretariat with its own budget, in other words, economic and administrative self-evidence. I consider this to be a self-evident moral recognition of the Greeks' offer abroad. As far as the Council is concerned, the proposal is in the right direction. However, there was no further processing and the necessary consultation with the members of the family did not take place. When the CSR took place in December 1995, the conditions were different. His structure and aim were in the remote Greeks. Twenty-five years later, things have changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u327	Please, finish it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u328	I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President. The vast majority of Greeks abroad, with the exception of new immigrants, are no longer popular, but resident citizens of other countries. The needs are different today, their relationship with Greece and their perspectives are different to the metropolitan centre. We should therefore give the CSCE the opportunity of being independent in its presence, without administrative dependencies, in order to avoid proper control and to allow him to exercise his role uninterruptedly. I conclude by saying that if we do not do this, its dynamics will be reduced and conditions of suffocation will be created by Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u329	Thank you. Mr Vassiliou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u330	Thank you, Mr President. Dear and dear colleagues, the Government of New Democracy since its taking office in July 2019, has been working methodically towards upgrading the country's position in the international system. We are talking about an international system which is arousing major economic, political, social and environmental problems, with pandemic more recently. The development of this new multi-dimensional and extroverted foreign policy is also considered appropriate in terms of the timing of its implementation, especially if we consider the situation of the revised expansionist foreign policy of neighbouring Turkey, President Erdogan, as well as the instability, which is being observed in the vicinity of our country. So, for the implementation of this vision of the government, a modernised and flexible form is needed, but also a new organisation that will draw from the successful 2007 organization, which has again been proposed by the New Democracy, but adapted to the needs and requirements of our times. As was made clear by the Minister in the relevant Committee on Defence and Foreign Affairs, but today in plenary, the draft law under discussion, although quite massive with more than four hundred eighty articles, is the first of a series of reforms in the way the Ministry operates. His mission is widened and his structure is organised around the three pillars, which the Minister presented to us, namely international relations relating to the traditional political component, economic relations and extrovertism, where the Ministry is now given exclusive competence only after the abolition of the former Ministry of Economy and Development and public diplomacy and the democratic Hellenism, where we see the largest innovation in the bill. First of all, I would like to comment on this enlargement of the Ministry's mission. Ladies and gentlemen, foreign policy is not just national issues. Of course, these are the top priority and are not entitled to any discounts. However, the national interest of Greece in the highly globalised world that we are experiencing, with the global problems that I have mentioned, goes through economic diplomacy, the extroversion of Greek production, humanitarian aid or the exploitation of the huge capital called "democratic Hellenism". In particular, with regard to the third pillar, the development of the foreign policy of the Western democratic states, our allies, goes through public opinion. At a time when public opinion is easily formed and altered by pressure agencies or social media, organised diplomacy is more urgent than ever. In any case, it would be wrong not to make the most of the Greek language, Greek culture and so important for the western Greek tradition. Reconstitution of the Council of Democrat Hellenism is undoubtedly a positive development in this respect. I therefore positively appreciate, Minister, the new organisational structure you are proposing. Mr President, I would like to refer to some of the points in the draft law. I believe that the establishment of an autonomous Office of Defensive Diplomacy will facilitate early and effective cooperation between the neo-Algerian Foreign and National Defence Ministries. I do not think it is at all accident that this is the case at a time when the country has a Minister for Foreign Affairs, who fully understands the importance of the work of the Armed Forces and a Minister for National Defence, who knows that the first 'weapon' - in introductory form - is diplomacy. This new office will ensure that the two Ministries operate synchronously and yet much better than the recent past of unfortunate coexistences over the days of the previous government. It's a reserve for the future. The abolition and merger of addresses and services, combined with the planned digital transition, will reduce bureaucracy, reduce costs, and will in many cases solve the hands of our diplomats. The establishment of the Centre for Foreign Policy Design, the Ministry's official research centre, which will operate as a think tank, will allow methodical cooperation with the academic community and scientific support in matters of its competence. With regard to the abolition of the Translation Service, an institution which in recent years has evolved into a slow and inefficient organisation, especially with regard to citizens' access to it, the proposed House of Certified Translators is a tested model, which has been successfully implemented in most European countries. Finally, Mr President, I left staff matters to the end, precisely because I wanted to stress their importance. The Ministry of Interior is his people. Greeks and Greek diplomats around the globe over time represent our country worthy. It is the first line of defence and the main body serving the national interest, often with exaggerated zeal and subordinated authorities. The Association of Diplomatic Officials has tabled a number of detailed proposals on the draft law. I am sure you share my view that the issues of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are best known by its people and you are examining them. In addition, integration into the structures of the Ministry of Staff, coming from the former Ministry of Economy and Information, will be carried out in a smooth way and I am sure, Mr Minister, that your sensitivity to this issue will also be felt. We expect it to contribute to this as well as to the new innovative evaluation system, which is introduced by the draft law, which provides for measurable objectives and participation of the assessor in the process, as well as the reorganisation of the Diplomatic Academy. In conclusion, I would say that I appreciate the efforts you are making to resolve the important issue of the insurance cover of officials outside the European Union of diplomats. This is a matter of national dignity primarily and I am pleased that it is resolved with the legislative improvements you have put forward. The draft law under discussion is a good principle for modernising the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I believe that when it is complemented by legislation on the external authorities it is necessary to increase the Ministry's budget to the right time to be chosen by the government. I call on the House to vote in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u331	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Apostolos Pana from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u332	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me first of all to make a little mention of the constant challenges that our country is facing from the new Ottoman strategy in Ankara. In particular, our neighbouring country has interrupted our exploratory contacts since 2016, now appeared ready for dialogue, while Turkey is moving clearly and only challengingly. There is no doubt, therefore, that the period, which we have spent in recent years, demonstrates the importance of foreign policy, and that, in accordance with the new needs of the Ministry, the historic Ministry of Foreign Affairs, set up in 1844, has the task of exercising our country's foreign policy on issues relating to our international relations, international cooperation and the international development of our general policy. My above reference is intended to remind all of the principles governing the concept of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and to make us seriously think about whether this draft law aims to create a modern organisational structure which will facilitate the effective exercise of foreign policy and the promotion of our national interests. The majority rapporteur said that the relevant provisions of this bill are part of a broader administrative reform, which also includes the restructuring of the authorities of abroad, the simplification of digitisation and the services provided and, overall, the reorganisation of a diplomat. It's true, though, isn't it? The bill aspires to be a functional framework, which will allow the reorganization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and Greek diplomacy, the even more effective exercise of the neo-Algerial tasks relating to the foreign policy of the Hellenic Republic. However, when we look at it carefully, one can see that only reorganization does not bring about at such a critical moment in our foreign policy. Here, ladies and gentlemen, I am referring not only to the spasmodic and dangerous movements of Turkey, but also to the wider international and uncertain reclassification environment. We have already expressed our views on the relevant committees where we are involved. In particular, in the Committee on European Affairs, where I am a member, I have repeatedly stressed the urgent need to strengthen the most important ministry, foreign affairs. In order not to be long, however, ladies and gentlemen, we must demand - and we say this - a modern and at the same time effective foreign ministry that can stand up to the complexity of the digital age, a functioning body that meets the current needs of diplomacy and does not, instead of solving the major problems that will continue to exist as a result of sub-financing. You are therefore asking for our diplomatic authorities to be supported - tools and capabilities for extroverting actions, and you should provide more strategic instruments and strengthen them. Instead of increasing, according to the financial possibilities that exist, the foreign ministry's budget, what you are doing is the opposite, and that is what is intended to be effectively underestimated, turning it into an introverted permeator. Minister, I think that this strategy cannot bring about the results you want. I mention, in particular, the abolition of the Translation Service, the reduction of the general secretariats or the individual organisational units of the Central Office of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the abolition of the General Secretariat of European Affairs. I would like to stress this: are you asking us to believe that the transfer of this secretariat to the Secretary-General, who already has a huge burden of competence, will not be charged with it? Really, I doubt it. I continue: With the degradation of the General Secretariat of the Greek Protestant, by converting it into an address and going into a general secretariat, a big question arises here, if we wish to support the Greek community, which is beyond the Greek border or simply, we will only be enough to guarantee the right to vote from its permanent type of residence, without having to return to Greece, thus continuing to care for the problems that concern them and trouble them. But there are other topics, such as the area of the CouncU and the Communication Secretaries. Also, in hospitals already the special speaker on this bill, Mr Loverdos, said on Wednesday that our Greek state's constitutional obligation to ensure the health of our citizens, as are diplomats within the European borders. To conclude, Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the mass merger of addresses and parts of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will lead essentially to the organisation's functional decline as a result of the general decline in the expenditures of this Ministry. We, as a Change Movement, demand a dynamic foreign ministry, which will open new embassies to countries where our country is not represented, by expanding its diplomatic relations, as a natural consequence of the new global reality. We therefore call for advanced regulations and additional financial resources for the crucial foreign ministry, so that it can also help in the exercise of national and foreign policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u333	Thank you. Mr. Lutas Athanasios from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u334	Good evening. Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, through the bill before us we see the implementation of a clear strategy aimed at reorganising the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and more effective foreign policy. In the last period we have watched and monitored developments in our geopolitical neighbourhood. These are developments which, especially in the eastern Mediterranean, also took the form of threats and challenges to our national interests. In response to the challenges and always loyal to our national interests, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and, above all, the Prime Minister of the country Kyriakos Mitsotakis, have implemented and implemented a foreign policy aimed at defending our sovereign rights. Our policy has successfully led to the recognition of our country's position internationally as a critical and serious position for our geopolitical region. We have internationally highlighted our national positions, which have been strongly supported abroad, resulting in strong alliances with powerful geopolitical players in our wider region and not just. At the same time, we have succeeded in strengthening our military power through the purchase of equipment, such as Rafale's warships. Of course, there has also been an extension of the seabed to the twelve nautical miles in the Ionian Sea. All of this suggests from now on that the foreign policy that we have planned, implemented and implemented is a policy that achieves great goals. In connection with all the above with the contents of the bill we are discussing today, it can be seen that this bill goes further to strengthen our foreign policy. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs is remodeled in a modern organization, in a form that is being implemented structurally, adapting to all the modern needs that our country is asked to face today, but also in the future. In particular, the total operation of the Ministry is structured in three organisational pillars: in international relations, in economic relations, in extroversion and in matters of democratic Hellenism and in public diplomacy. In a coordinated and clear way, the Ministry of Foreign Affairs strengthens its multifaceted role. The ultimate purpose is to strengthen our overall power internationally. Overall, strengthening the strength of a country involves a total alloy of policies and targets. It includes political power, a dynamic international position and military, economic and cultural power. A country's strength is being strengthened decisively, when it is being strengthened at a total and substantial level. Our country has a strong political leadership, and with every policy we pursue and achieve maximum benefit in every policy area. In particular, we now have clear policy arms that will support all our foreign policy areas. More specifically, it is integrated as an object of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and economic diplomacy. The economic crisis we have experienced as a country has highlighted the need for the growth and deepening of our economic relations European and internationally. The critical economic consequences of the pandemic once again reveal this great need. The creation of a strategy which will work to bloom outwardly on economic development and not only is a crucial objective. At the same time, the crucial pillar of this bill is democrat Greekism and public diplomacy. Public diplomacy is a means of highlighting a country's position on the international stage. At the forefront, then, diplomacy, the forefront and the Greek-democratic. As far as the democratic Hellenism is concerned, our Greek compatriots, who live at every end of the earth, are valuable capital for our country. They have been and constituted a decisive asset for the dissemination of Greek history, culture, values, ideas and positions. They are all strong in other societies and countries, where their enormous love for the country of all of us for our support for Greece leads to their full and continuous support. Support for universal Hellenism has been a key and primary priority for the Government of the New Democracy and our Prime Minister since the first moment. It is a support, which led to the top decision on the right for Greek residents abroad to have the right to vote. In addition, important steps, which confirm this basic care, are under this bill and the reopening of the Board of Deputies of Hellenism and the creation of the new Secretariat of Disciplinary Hellenism and Public Diplomacy. I would also like to focus on the particular importance of the establishment of the Centre for Foreign Policy Design as a pool of thought in cooperation with academic institutions. The objective in particular is to provide scientific support for the preparation of the strategy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The establishment of the Office for Defense Diplomacy, the reorganisation of the Academic Diplomacy and the objectives of rationalisation and modernisation of structures are also of great importance. A crucial part of this bill, the support of the human factor, the Greek diplomat, the man who puts himself in the service of our foreign policy and who has to fight for our national positions. Ladies and gentlemen, the seasons are changing and the states must be shielded against constant and often unforeseen developments. This shield requires vigilance and its foundation are the strong structures. Powerful are those structures based on the history, modern knowledge and the maximum use of a country's human resources and in this regard the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. The whole of this bill lays the foundations and forms a new way of working the Ministry. The multifaceted understanding of international correlations is seen as important, especially in terms of decoding the navigation of the international system at all times and strengthening our position within this system. Our country's governance by the Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis leads and will lead to the strengthening of our national power. It is our main objective which is already being implemented and which will be supported consistently and effectively through the regulations that this draft law brings. We continue firmly and consistently, organized and clearly so as to win battles and strengthen our position. That's how we started, so we keep going, and that's how we're going to keep going. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u335	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Efstathios Constantinidis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u336	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on another important bill is due to be concluded shortly. It does not need to be an expert to understand how crucial it is for our country to optimise the organization and functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, to re-establish the Council of Depopulation, to modernise its structures and to strengthen the institutions responsible for international development cooperation. And while one could reasonably say that the objectives set by the bill to be passed are time-consuming for the Greek state the environment that is formed worldwide because of the pandemic, especially in post-vaccination times, but also in our neighborhood because of Turkey's revision, make it necessary to speed up and intensify this effort. After an exhausting period of instability and uncertainty in our foreign policy with the responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL - we had to re-establish ourselves in the international community after the debris of the previous period had been exposed to us worldwide. One does not need to remember the complaints of the memorials, the cradle of the inappropriate referendum, the title of the worst negotiating tactic for the year 2015, which our country had then conquered on the relevant Harvard ranking. Suffice it to remember the former Prime Minister, Mr Tsipras, on the one hand, to rescind Madour's policy and, on the other, to say that the Trump administration may look evil, but this is done for good. From these unfamiliar days it has not been two years and yet the situation has improved considerably. The measured image of the country has been restored internationally and the Greek Prime Minister is a reliable interlocutor of top leaders, as well as representatives of global business groups and our home destination for the installation of flag investments. It has, of course, been necessary to demonstrate that we have a plan for changing directions and the determination to implement our reform programme. And all of this in very difficult circumstances with the European family being shaken by the departure of the United Kingdom, America experiencing an unprecedented internal political instability, Turkey manifesting an insurmountable aggression from Libya to Nagorno Karabakh and migration flows until Greece shows that it is not the easy path for immigrants' traffickers and the safe haven for all kinds of rights. And yet, in this unstable environment, the country managed to move around the tracks of international law and the conditions to become the stable partner in the region, the predictable partner in unforeseen circumstances. And that's what she got credited for. Greece has strengthened its relations with traditional allies and has built new partnerships, able to highlight the common points of interest, the ones that unite it with each of the interlocutors separately without contradictions and without one partnership to absolve each other. As a result, the country grows on both its territory and its prestige and international influence. They built defensive and armaments alliances that shield our country and peace eventually. For all this, of course, beyond the clear strategy, systematic and organised work was required. Of course, it is a question of building a stable strategy, extroverting diplomacy and a strong presence in international organisations. And in order to do this, we must ensure the organisational infrastructure and the necessary tools at the most competent department, which is not the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. This is an objective, I think, that it should serve the draft law under discussion by modernising its organisational plan, restructuring the services and integrating digital instruments. Each of the three pillars on which the Ministry is now structured is essential to the development of an integrated strategy and all of them can make a significant contribution to the promotion of national affairs. However, I would like to mention the importance of two of them. One is the re-establishment of the Council of De-Democrat Hellenism, provided for in Article 108(2) of the Constitution as an advisory body of the State in matters relating to Greek emigrants and expatriates. The MPs, who have the honour to participate in the Committee of Deputies of Hellenism, often have the pleasure of seeing the passion, enthusiasm and the smallness of the Greeks abroad participate in actions that extend from the preservation of traditions, the promotion of the Greek language, the promotion of our culture, the strengthening of national positions to the interconnection of businesses in the country where they live with their respective nationalities and the attraction of investment to Greece. The Council of Disciplinary Hellenism in close cooperation with the new General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic, through their distinct roles, is therefore called upon to activate the endless forces of the Greeks who live and operate abroad through the implementation of policies to strengthen the links between the diaspora and the country. It is also a policy that follows from the current government's commitment to facilitating election rights for non-resident voters. It is one more decision that raises Greece. The other axis is that of the new General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extrovertance with actions to strengthen economic diplomacy, which it is called upon to develop. With the progress made, with the good of the vaccination process, all the countries will enter a very competitive process in trying to recover the lost land from the economic and development losses caused by the consequences of the pandemic. In this context, economic diplomacy can play a crucial role in strengthening the extroversion of Greek businesses, but also in attracting foreign investment in the country. The Regional Unit of Kozani aspires to be an investment destination for many companies from Greece and abroad as part of the implementation of the fair growth transition plan and incentives, which will incorporate it. That is why we look forward to the promotion of the advantage of the region by the relevant secretariat and its subordinate bodies with which we need to develop close cooperation. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u337	Thank you. We continue with the last speaker, Mr Themistoklis Himara from New Democracy, and we will finish with Mr Haritou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u338	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I speak of today's bill, let me refer to what we see unfolding in the Aegean all these days. We see a Turkey being ambiguous once again to the limits of legality, with a clear intention of creating tension. We see a Turkey adopting again, without logic and substance, a series of challenges, such as the extradition of the irregular NAVTEX. At the same time, we are monitoring reports by the Turkish media about allegedly harassment by the Turkish ship 'TSME'. Greece has proved to be a country that knows how to pick and chat. But she knows how to use all the diplomatic tools she has at her disposal. The strengthening of our position in the Eastern Mediterranean, the strengthening of our armaments systems, the EEZ with Italy and Egypt, our cooperation relations with countries such as Israel make Greece a powerful player in the Mediterranean. They make us the most serious and powerful factor of the West. We will not be challenging at all, but we will not leave any move that offends our national rights. I'm coming to the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the diplomatic and administrative staff of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs all years consistently and effectively serves, and promotes the interests of the country. Often in adverse circumstances, his duty is carried out in a dynamic and consistent manner. The legislation we are debating today increases the function of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, strengthens its effectiveness in matters of defending our national interests and promoting the international image of Greece and Hellenism. It is structured in three main directions: international relations, economic relations and extroversion, as well as the issues of democratic Hellenism and public diplomacy. We reorganise the Diplomatic Academy with the aim of creating a single industry of diplomats with education in all three directions of political, economic and public diplomacy. We're recommending a Department of Defensive Diplomacy which will coordinate the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence. We support the new General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic and Public Diplomacy, which is responsible for coordinating and implementing the actions and functions that serve the needs of the deceased Greeks. We naturally recommend a new General Secretariat of International Economic Relations and Extrovertance aimed at integrating economic diplomacy at the core of the Ministry's operation as a single part of our foreign policy. In this very noteworthy and necessary change I would like to stand without naturally underestimating the rest. Our country is gradually coming out of the health crisis, a crisis which has undoubtedly changed over and above world history. But before that, we have spent a memorial decade with the consequences that we have experienced and experienced. Now Greece needs forward programs and policies, which will lead to an orbit of foreign trade by means of a vehicle. It needs to highlight its comparative advantages, which are really many, to leave behind clipping tactics and implement targeted strategy, a strategy that will enable it to emerge aggressively on the global economic scene and claim candidate investors, a strategy that will enable the infiltration of products produced in our country around the world. I have personal experience with the dynamic extrovert, in particular, of the primary products because of my previous capacity as Vice-President Extroversion and Entrepreneurship of Central Greece. In 2015 we started trying to boost exports of local products with thirty - forty businesses. We participated in exhibitions around the world, we worked backwards with our producers. After a systematic work, the next two years we have managed to make these thirty - forty hundred with eight hundred producers, entrepreneurs, who have standardised their products and have managed, with the help of the region, to enter Greece's markets and, above all, abroad. You can consider the dynamics of export trade under the umbrella of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Today we are bringing the Ministry of Foreign Affairs up to an effective body to promote the country's financial interests. We are also coming to unify our foreign policy with economic diplomacy and extrovertism to have better coordination, which means that our country's contact points around the world, embassies, for example, can become automatically reference points for international economic relations, contact the Agricultural Plants Cooperative in Macrey, in my area, or Molos with proposed buyers in France. Potential investors of Phthotida's thermal sources in the Thermopylae, for example, can see our place, learn how to invest in the country without having to return from minister to ministry. These reports may sound very simple, but there is the "jumble" of the case, link the Greek economy, Greek production, our investment opportunities to global markets. That's growth. Undoubtedly, the most appropriate body to seal this effort is the "ENTERPRISE GREECE" which is now well under the umbrella of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, since it is the most appropriate extrovert to attract investment to Greece, to promote exports so that Greek products can find their way to the shelves of the foreign stores, to support the Greek companies to approach new markets, to identify new partners and finally, to highlight the country as an important strategic partner and, of course, as an investment destination. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece must claim a greater share of foreign investment funds and highlight those areas in which tourism, agrifood, energy, historical and cultural reserves are the most important ones. Today's bill sets the foundations that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs will support in the new, modernised, and certainly more effective times. It asserts our country's outward orientation. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u339	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We now finish with Mr. Dimitrios Charitou from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, our contribution to discussing this draft law is in the same direction as our contribution to creating a national strategy on the major foreign policy issues, first of all to address the Turkish aggression which is now openly questioning our country's sovereign rights. However, the recent provocative moves of the neighbour in the Aegean Sea, which are under way, unfortunately confirm how right we were when we asked for the compass of our strategy to be changed, so that a real framework of sanctions has been ensured before the start of the exploratory talks. It is now understood that it is the only thing that could keep Turkey at the dialogue table with seriousness without threats and blackmails. It is well known, gentlemen, that we have repeatedly advocated dialogue with the neighbour as the only way of resolving the disputes that we have with regard to demarcation of maritime economic zones. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to return to the bill, it has been rightly stressed that such changes in the structures of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are not often made, for this basic question, which we have to answer is whether the new organisation, which you are introducing, sees in the future, if it can promote our country's international position and our foreign policy priorities, if it takes into account the challenges that our country has to face internationally in the new digital age, if it can help to match and actively participate in global issues relating to climate change, migration and refugee flows, the issues of world peace. The rapporteur has clearly given us the signal of whether or not the agency is responding, which you are proposing to all these challenges. As has been noted, despite the cowardice steps and the adoption of many articles in our project, the fact is that the necessary areas are not currently needed, that there are serious issues with provisions that have a crucial impact on the mission of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Indicatively, gentlemen, whether the draft law meets today's needs are the positions of representatives of the institutions and, in particular, of the Union of Diplomatic Officials, a union which, among other things, noted that it was unfortunately not a product of dialogue, that it was done in secret, without the participation of diplomats, that it was a demonstrable and massive text, which was unclear and difficult to implement. You are aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the gravity of all these points, which you had to take into account. Because the major problem of diplomacy is the means at its disposal both in terms of human resources and economic resources. I would like to point out here that with the reduced financial resources available in the 2021 budget it will have a negative impact on the extroversion of diplomacy and possibly make many of the new structures, responsibilities and designs that you introduce. While it is subordinated to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs with the body you deposit, we see a drastic decrease in the organic positions of diplomats from nine hundred to eight hundred today. This will surely lead to the complete reversal of the pyramid and will, unfortunately, add difficulties to the emergence of our national interests, at a very critical time, and it has already been pointed out that the reduction will jeopardise the future staffing of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Obviously, such reductions in other sectors will create additional problems. Ladies and gentlemen, it is certain that these serious deficiencies will be even more pronounced than the irrational way in which you have organised the political directorates in some cases, essentially weakening them. For example, it is extremely problematic that countries with a heavy international role, such as China or the United States, are not an autonomous address, and instead of discussing the upgrading of the administrative representation of Greek-democratics, you are effectively degrading it when you turn it into an address that goes with others, such as public diplomacy, religious and cultural diplomacy in a general secretariat. There are other important points that I will simply highlight, such as the abolition of the Translation Service, the coverage of nursing and pharmaceutical expenditure for officials, a problem that we have tabled. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to take note of a particularly important issue, that of cooperation between the Ministry of Defence and the Ministry of Defence, which, in my opinion, cannot be dealt with with with the Office for Defensive Diplomacy you are recommending. The major institutional deficit in the formation of the National Security Council is urgent to be addressed. You, gentlemen, do something unprecedented, I'd say backwards. You have appointed a national security advisor without there being a corresponding structure, without a National Security Council. It is, gentlemen, another reason why there is a strategy deficit in your policies, policies that we criticise you in order to correct the compass of our strategy as a country, to defend and promote the interests of our country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u341	Thank you. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mr President. To testify to the second, third and fourth legislative packages. The two relate to the Ministry's own legislation and one concerns health issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u343	I would also like to announce the two ministerial amendments, as we discussed this morning: first of all the amendment on hospitals, number 771. Another amendment, concerning an increase in the monthly compensation for a foreign service by the Head of the Tripolis Embassy, which will be reopened by number 769. I would also like to announce that I will also accept Mrs Bakoyannis' parliamentary amendment on the two-member staff of the Foundation from the Greek Democrat Foundation. I therefore think that we have reached agreement this morning and even with a'relative' delay, I think it has been fulfilled. Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a ministerial duty and you will allow me in the vote to be Mr Kostas Vlasis. Thank you very much for understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u344	We are now continuing with Mrs Sacora for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u345	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I will try to be as brief as possible. The issue with the parliamentary procedure and practice, which applies to the amendments tabled by the opposition parties, is very serious and we discussed this at the beginning of the sitting. We believe that it is necessary at last to have a special debate to review our operation on this point. Otherwise we will constantly recycle a problem situation, ladies and gentlemen. The issue is crucial and reflects the quality of our democracy. The parliamentary system cannot function by depriving Members of their right to participate in the legislative process in practice. On the other hand, we have the misuse of the government's ability to table amendments. In this bill you tabled three amendments after the last meeting of the committee, and here there is a question of parliamentary regularity. Even worse, we heard during this sitting that others are coming, as well as they have been tabled. I would like to refer specifically to Mr Loverdos' proposal, the proposal from the Change Movement, to increase the retirement threshold. I must state here our disagreement. This means the ever more long commitment of the superior positions of the hierarchy, with all the negative consequences, in particular, of renewing the potential in positions of responsibility with high-qualified staff. This renovation means more appropriate exploitation of the potential of human resources in the Ministry, but also a renewal of its potential. I would also like to refer to Rule 324 on medical and hospital care. We must testify to our position. The exceptions to the principle of equal treatment are not permitted. It cannot be suggested as an excuse to avoid that time is needed for an international competition. This is an international practice. It is followed by many countries, including Germany, Italy, Portugal, etc. Today really, ladies and gentlemen, it is an opportunity to resolve the problem effectively and not to perpetuate the two-speed protection regime. This is a breach of the State's fundamental obligation to ensure a decent living for the public service operator. Let us not forget here that this is fundamental both for the exercise of his independence and for his impartiality. The Central Office shall also assume responsibility for the payment of hospitals. Each official shall thus grant his entitlement to the EEAS to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Of course, and we are negative in the practice applied with the financial facilities or lending from the Consular Fund. It is neither correct nor rational to impose minimum staff, minimum additional accounting procedures for these circumstances. Let's talk about Article 334. A high number of some fifty-five missions are planned. In essence, a parallel system of opaque transfers is being created that can also have punishable use. We propose a ceiling of twenty-five per year. Let us now come to the proposals for Articles 267, 269 on the secondary disciplinary board. We believe that it is necessary to set limited time limits for the procedures. Let us not forget that the development of the disciplinary procedure is inhibiting the possibility of transferring and promoting. Therefore, these procedures should not be extended to the appropriate extent. There is also the question of the wage simulation of diplomatic and administrative officials. This is a level playing field, which overlooks the real facts and the distinction in terms of qualifications, but also in terms of service responsibilities. It is another matter that the pay treatment of administrative officials is imposed, and that is unjustified assumption. Just one final comment, Mr President, and I am closing. In my first speech I referred to some of the current critical issues of our foreign policy, with reference to the Greek Government's overall perception and attitude. I don't think there was any room for misinterpretation. Obviously I did not even insinuate anything at all, anything that could have been relevant to the face of Mr Teddy, the Minister. But I have to clarify something. I referred to the Minister's communication with Mr Blinken on 15 February. That is what we know. In a way you disproved me, I was disproved by the Minister, especially by referring to me that you had another agreement. I don't know if you had any other secret communication or meeting in that time. If you had, let us know about her. I do not imagine the Minister to mean, of course, his participation in the Council of Ministers of the European Union on 22 February 2021, where Mr Blinken intervened through a teleconferencing conference. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u346	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Mylonakis. Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, what we have heard and today I really did not expect it to happen. The Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Mr. Secretary, Mr. Vlassi, operates as a Ministry of Foreign Affairs in 1960, said the Minister. We heard. He told the truth, but I think that must be embarrassing to all of us here. All these years the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has reported to us in this situation, with the seven buildings, with what we have said and told us the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs themselves, against the warehouses in the basement, with the file without digitisation, with nothing! We need to change mentality. We'll keep saying it. It's not that, you know, complaint or reproach against you. We must all be ashamed of ourselves if we haven't done anything for the State Department for so many years. I'm coming to 288 million. Did you say that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs can't absorb larger funds? Do I understand correctly? Mr. Villard asked. And damn it, he says, from the new budget, he won't be able to absorb it. Why? Because, he says, the financial services are missing. What's this about? A few years ago, if I'm not mistaken, Mr. Amanatidis, he had 480 million. How did he absorb them then? What's missing? We are told here by diplomats and people that they are fighting and they have no money. We have been celebrating this year since the beginning of the Revolution of 1821. Do our diplomats, our embassies, our consulates, have to celebrate as the whole world needs to learn this great anniversary? They don't. Once again, it is not possible for the Ministry of Foreign Affairs to absorb funds and not to have the opportunity to promote them. Translation Service. Listen, the Minister said there are thousands of problems. You put on the inside, he says, and he says, "To keep someone time to translate, etc." Well, I think - of course, the Minister left, obviously he had a job, I don't think he left to hear it - that's not happening, not even in Zimbabwe. Is it possible to blame a translation agency with such easy charges and to want to close it? What excuses are these? One hundred and forty experienced people are there. And that, of course, is well known and understands why you want to pass through the new system. Because every ministry, every contract, it'll have its own people. It will take private translator companies, it will not be controlled by anyone and it will go by saying, to make some 'ours' comfortable. I mean, Minister, and I want you to see, because you are very serious and I appreciate the following: all the branches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs are struggling, because it was not the government's behaviour that had to be. With regard to hospitals, with this amendment, which you have brought us, we have not said that. We did not say that people, consulates and embassies in third countries should be looking for private insurance companies. We said that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, through the EEA, will cover the costs of people who are in third countries and cannot afford to have public security there. You want to serve now only the Embassy in Washington or our diplomats in Australia I think the others will be left to their fate. No, it was wrong, and that shouldn't have come. Like you did nothing for the tuition fees we asked for. It's okay. I think you'll understand. Like you did nothing about the money that these people are asking for and about the staff they are asking for, to be served. You've got them thrown over the diplomats. And not only that, but many fear that there will be vengeance. I do not want to believe that we are going to meet in the 1980s and 1990s, where we military and obviously the diplomats, once the governments have taken over, have changed. I don't want to believe it's going to happen at the Department of Foreign Affairs in 2021. Please don't think about it and do this: revenge against industry or trade unionists. People are doing their job. They do their job and try for the best with the experience they have. Minister, second day today - I would like the House to hear this - in the work of the European Council, Mr Loverdos. The Prime Minister took part in a teleconferencing conference. Its issues were Europe's security and defence. He didn't say anything. And NATO Secretary General was there. The Prime Minister did not talk at all about the problem of GALAZA PATRIDA of the Turks and the "TSME". In conclusion, I would like to say that the Greek Solution is faithful to what it has said since the beginning. The State Department didn't do what he had to bring. His bill is massive, dazzling, and it won't work. More problems create. So he's voting against it at first. In the articles we will now have the opportunity to vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u348	Thank you. We continue with Mr Papapastasis from the Communist Party of Greece. Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u349	Our party has already placed itself on the role of the Foreign Ministry as a key pillar for the implementation of the government's policy in international relations, which is a fundamentally influenced role by the country's commitment to NATO, the European Union, the United States of America's policy. Its policy is not another policy. It is the same policy that the people are experiencing within the country. The lack of any criticism from the other parties in Parliament, other than the Communist Party, against the provisions of the bill and the Foreign Ministry means that they support this policy. From this mechanism of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, we have separated its human resources, which we strongly support. Today, in the positions of all parties - it is understood but a Communist party of course - the criticism of the management of the existing infrastructure of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, as well as of the proposed ones, has prevailed. No party representative in his position expressed any criticism of the political aspect of the Ministry's work. What's that called? It is called consensus, consensus on foreign policy and its implications within the country. For example, a foreign policy was implemented by the then government of SYRIZA - I am referring to 2017 - when, on behalf of the European Union, Article 42 of the Treaty that gave free in France and Britain and others to bomb Syria with thousands of dead and also to create thousands of refugees. The Department of Foreign Affairs handled it. It was foreign policy that SYRIZA's invitation to NATO to settle in the Aegean was also a foreign policy, by misleadingly closing the eye on the people then, that it was allegedly with this presence that our maritime borders would be guaranteed. It was also foreign policy and was implemented by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in the PASOK government during the Yugoslav bombings - and I quote that, in order to show that the policy of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is not what was expressed today, generally, a national policy, implying that it is also good for the people - when the military representative on this wolf alliance took a note signed by the then Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Papandreou, who approved one toward the bombings, which made naval aircraft against hospitals, television stations and civilians. Finally, it is foreign policy that our country's participation in the giant naval exercise that is already under way, the 'DEFENDER EUROPE 2021' that has evolved in northern Greece, at the port of Alexandroupolis since the 24th of the month. This exercise shows the almost unanimous demand for closer cooperation between the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and the Ministry of National Defence, which was also expressed today. So let each party be searched for, to find the patriotic parameter in support of NATO's aggressive plans against Russia's threat to the Balkan region, the Black Sea and the Baltic countries. So let each party, which leaves to the unavoidable policy pursued by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and explain to the Greek people how patriotic it is when it tolerates the conversion of the port of Alexandroupolis into a death hub for the peoples of the Baltic, central and eastern Europe, which are already turning into death theatres of the Natali companies. All this is Greek foreign policy. You all accept it. None of you criticised the role of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. We are already in place and have voted against the bill in principle. We have also placed ourselves in the main articles and we will now conclude with the vote, which will follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u350	Thank you, too. Mr. Andreas Loverdos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u351	Thank you, Mr President, Mr Constantinople. Ladies and gentlemen, my five-minute seconds will be devoted to the amendments. And allow me to begin with an amendment from our own, from the PASOK - a change movement, which concerns leaving the service, retiring and which we have not heard, even though we have constantly stressed that there should be no different treatment of branches of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the pension threshold. Because I have the honour as Minister of Labour in 2010 to have proposed to the House and Parliament to have voted for the discretionary right to remain with the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, the diplomats, but also the remaining officials up to the sixty-seventh year of their age, I proposed from the first day to see it again, I transferred my experience from the Ministry of Health and Education, my negative experience, not want the stay of doctors in the body of the ESS, the teachers, the diplomats, the experts, our economic and commercial followers who see their stay as an obstacle to promoting their own career. It is wrong, at the same time, not to hire, not to do introductory tests in 2020 at the Diplomatic Academy and at the same time to allow the dismissal of very important, very experienced people who can help the country at these difficult times. We have tabled an amendment. I do not like to be a Member of Parliament for tabling amendments, because I see many times through them the attempt of a politician to be associated with ministries, with special electorate bodies. I don't do it or at least I don't take initiatives to do this. But here, I am entitled to it. I've done it when I could. And I don't understand why you can't. Mr. Dendia's speech was absolutely unconvincing when he asked us how many foreign ministers have called us to ask us to stay. Only one of me. However, all the bodies who have put forward a relevant opinion on this matter by the Ministry, namely most of your officials and the most important, have said the opposite to what the Minister says, to unblock difficulties, difficulties, difficult situations. It is a minister not to obey what some within their subordinates want. So we insist on the sixty - seventh year. Now, with regard to the very big issue of a staff member who has a disciplinary problem and is asking for a quick trial of his disciplinary officer, we have proposed that, in particular, for secondary school to set time limits, limits should be set for the delay. And because you formulate, as the Minister promised, these limits by reading the rules, I understand that these limits are not binding. I am aware of the problem with the exclusive deadlines and I am not tempting you. But the wording had to be different. It shall be convened at secondary level within four months, but shall be due within four months. Here, the wording is lighter. You could say 'without an exclusive deadline' and end. Do the institutions of the administration respect the exclusive deadlines? Oh, no. The legislator, however, says so, and the employee can insist. That is why we are not going to vote on this amendment. On the question of mobility, we say 'no' in the first regulation, in Article 2. We want to vote on the rotation of the collective bodies, on the grounds of the special circumstances, but, as is part of an amendment, the content of which we refuse, we also vote against. And, finally, for reasons that may be understandable for someone who exercises management, such as the Minister, the Deputy Minister and you and his colleagues, it may be understandable why the coverage of their staff with regard to their hospitals, their care, comes fully from 1-1-2022, I can understand the bureaucratic problem, I can understand the bureaucratic difficulty, I can get into your clothes, but it is not possible for a politician, who says "here and now you will resolve this, because it is a question of Constitution, because it is a matter of protecting the health of the Greek state" to monitor the difficulties, as the Greek public service tells. Although there is an attempt to do so after all of us are under pressure, because you did not have this regulation from the outset, despite the fact that we are seeing some positive steps, we are not going to take part in the position of being out of protection for ten more months than the officials of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u352	Thank you. Mr Amanatidis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u353	Ladies and gentlemen, by reaching the end of today's plenary session and after the committees, I think that there has been a good debate in committees and in plenary. However, it did not have the effect that we would like. In response to this bill, we have been critical, but with proposals and arguments, which have been developed in both committees and in the debate during the plenary and with legislative improvements, which we have tabled to committees from the outset, and with the amendment we have tabled on health insurance, the medicine of officials serving abroad as a whole. I shall be speaking on the amendments, Mr President. However, you will allow me to comment on one or two points. The first point is this: it is a contradiction which the Minister for Foreign Affairs had. Of course, Mr Denkias is missing, but of course he is quite right. But I want to put it for the story. What changed from the first meeting of the House, and with Mrs Bakoyannis and other colleagues and the Minister himself, said that there is a problem of sub-financing for the Ministry of the Interior and, indeed, that she will make special moves, and in 2021 she will get extra money into the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What has changed so far since the Minister came and said this amazing - I do not know if any other Minister said it - that: 'I return money, I cannot use the money that they give me'? They can't happen both, and you can't be underfunded and you can't use the money. That is a great contradiction. So what changed from that position to today? And how are you going to ask then, to go as Minister and as State Department, to ask for extra money? On the one hand, you are complaining that you cannot spend it and, on the other, you are not going to solve the basic problem of insurance, to which we have given you a concrete solution. The solution, which you give, enables there to be two speeds and three speeds of employees to be insured abroad. And, on the other hand, you don't do anything about tuition. And you say you have money. These are contradictions, which must be resolved and the answers must be given by the Minister himself. So, in the face of the amendment brought by the Ministry of Health and Safety abroad, we are opposite and will vote 'in favour'. It is Amendment 771/12, brought by Mr Denkias. Our amendment is in completely different philosophy and contrast. He said, "We have now brought her into nine pages, you in thirty-two." But, of course, you brought her into nine pages after you abolished her. What would you bring? And other details about how you're going to remove it? Our pages on translation were talking about a certain model of operation, which, of course, needed to be changed. As far as the General Secretariat of the Hellenic Republic is concerned, there are dozens of protests from last year in connection with the merger. Minister, how many watermelons can you put in a pillow? They put three and four together in the same Directorate-General. It can't be done. Two watermelons in one arm - says our people - do not fit and you cannot carry them either. All the areas you merge and the results will be seen in front of you very soon. For the ESA, we agree. I would like to tell you here about the amendments. There are amendments, Mr President, and it will obviously also be my position on this - which cannot be voted on in writing. They've got articles inside. However, there are articles in the amendments, which we agree to vote on, but they also have one or two articles with which we do not agree. So, as a whole, the amendment cannot be placed with a pure'super' or a'superior' or a'superior' net'. That is why we are in place for the general number 764 and the number 5, which is for the time limits of what you had to say, 'in favour'. In Amendment No 769, with a special number of 10, and I will give it to you electronically, we are 'in favour'. Amendments Nos 765 and 6, and 766, and number 766, with a special number of seven, are'represents' because we are negative in extending the operation of all retail shops and on Sundays by ministerial decision. We are, of course, positive in extending the discount period. But that is in the articles of the amendment. We cannot vote on one 'in favour' and the other 'in against'. So in this amendment we are voting 'the present'. In addition, the amendment I said, which says on the issue of suspending the deadlines for the expiry of tourist buses, etc., is positive, but it also has negative aspects, so we cannot vote in favour of this amendment, and that is why we will be going to'represents'. We shall also vote on Mr Vorides' amendment to the general number 770 and on a special number 11. There is a positive first article, for example. We are in the second article and the third article of the amendment, which deals with the surroundings, creates strong concerns for us and we are voting 'in favour'. In all, however, we cannot have anything clear, so we will go to the'substances' in this amendment. Of course, in the amendment tabled by the Minister, and to which we are positive, we would vote 'yes' in Mrs Bakoyannis'''s amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems that this bill does not just take a moment's steps, but we will have to see how it runs on its feet in positive provisions, to move forward. The CSR won't go any further if you let it go. That is why we have called for separate meetings and there must be cross-party consultation. Mr President, on the one hand it is sub-financing, sub-delegation. This draft law does not meet the expectations and needs of both national interests and foreign policy as a whole. So at the outset and on all of the articles we place 'in the against', and in the motion for a resolution, Mr President, we shall vote on the articles according to 'in favour', 'in favour' or 'insurance'. We are therefore voting against the bill, Mr President. Be well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u354	Thank you, too. Mr. Bogdanos has the floor to complete the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u355	I have the impression that Mr. Blasis wants to speak after me. I say it because you said that with me the process would be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u356	No one has asked me to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u357	I will need the floor for two minutes later, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u358	Okay. Mr. Bogdano, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u359	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I put aside my notes, which I had in mind guided me during dentistry, and I take two or three minutes to speak to you from boobs and from hearts. I've been reading a book lately. It is Kostas Papadopoulos' publications "INDIKTO". It refers to the period 1943-1944, specifications, murders, cleansing, ditching, civil unrest, passions, something we never want to know that our people could relapse. I think we all agree on that. Having spent a very difficult decade in total, I thought that in some ways the West, but also in Europe and us, we have never really overcome the crisis in 2008. Over the last two weeks, with COVID over the entire memorial period, which succeeded in the period of the international economic crisis in a country where things have never been working exactly a clock, general social and political tensions are recorded very well. As long as one opens the TV, sees broadcasts, read the Internet - I am not talking about trolls, fake profiles, anonymous flaws, I am talking about branded comments under journalistic articles - to hire what? This very heavy climate, this morbidity, which unfortunately recently characterises public debate. We disagree on a lot of things, and that is good, since our disagreement can be achieved in dialectically in the way that this committee has done last week, since last Friday at five meetings, which ends in the marathon today. I have heard many things that are personally outrageous to me, that the feudal system has been overturned by the French Revolution. It was lost in 1668, the American Revolution was lost. I heard the French Revolution brought capitalism. Adam Smith was lost, the conditions of the bourgeoisie were practically two centuries ago. I have heard that Iran is for some reason preferable to Saudi Arabia. I say again that all this is of no importance and has no meaning, because the prisoner with the liberal will never agree. The internationalist with the patriot, the nationalist, if you wish, will never agree, perhaps neither the Christian with the atheist nor perhaps the rightful one with the conservative. But in the course of this week - and I am thus closing my second-guessment - I thank the ladies and gentlemen who have created the committee's dialogue body - to the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence, discussing this draft law on the reorganization of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Greek diplomacy and the integration of predictions, which are necessary for universal Hellenism, for economic diplomacy, for a thousand two beneficial and useful, we have taken down a cliché, a cliché which is populous and which the House generally wants to be the bad mirror of this society. This week, Mr Katrugale, Mr Amanatidis, Mr Marino, Mrs Sacora, Mr Loverdo, Mr Mylonakis, Minister, the Committee on Foreign Affairs and Defence was not the bad mirror of society, it was a good version of how we can really operate, finding that we disagree, but deciding that our disagreement will be directed at the dialogue until we find or do not find common ground. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. I also thank as rapporteur for the bill, in my first parliamentary report, for the atmosphere and the environment that we have created this week. I would personally like it to be voted on by a more extensive majority. I would like at least instead of 'no' to have 'the present'. For many reasons this is not possible, but, Mr Katrugale, I say again that it does not matter. After a week, as the evil was happening around us, we were able to come to an understanding and get to the point where we are today. I propose again that we all vote in favour of this, but in any case, I thank you personally for this process of a legal parliamentary dialectical culture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u360	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u361	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two clarifications, which have been heard lately. Mr Amanatidis, because you have also raised her issue - in introductory words - 'contradictory' about economics by Mr Tindemans, I would simply say that there is no contradiction in what she has said. We do indeed think that the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is being supported. But what he said is that there is a need and there really is a need for the creation of the new DU to strengthen economic directions. That is why it really seems that 89% of the money that is available and available to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs is approved. So what Mr Dendias said is that, yes, we need more funding, but we need to find the way and with more staff and with a better-formed financial service to be able to exploit all the financial data we have. Now, with regard to the second point that my dear colleague, Mr Loverdos, has said concerning the coverage of all hospitals, I would like you to think about it again. Mr Loverdos, the draft law laid down first of all - to be clear and understandable - from the outset to cover all hospitals in countries outside the European Union and all emergencies. In other words, any diplomat or employee has now had an emergency abroad, where he needed to cover about 20%, at the moment, since the very beginning of the law we have deposited, we cover it in full. What we are talking about in addition - and what you said about what will apply from 1 to 20222 concerns some other incidents, not exceptional ones, which, as a result of budgetary problems, we say will be covered in a few months' time now. I think that, since we all come together to solve problems more than thirty years old, that is really small. I will close by saying what the rapporteur of the New Democracy has said. I really think the climate today and all the previous days have been excellent. Proof that today that we're here, we're really here to unite the orders. You saw that many proposals from both SYRIZA and the Change Movement and from the Greek Solution were accepted by the government. I'm sure we disagree on too much. However, I think that the bills of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs and other ministries can unite us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u362	Thank you. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: "Organization and functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of the Greek Democratic Republic and the settlement of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid" is hereby concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u363	The rapporteurs and special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u364	Therefore, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: ‘Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of the Greek Democratic Republic, regulation of issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u365	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u366	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-26-S1-commons.u367	With the consent of the House at 21.38 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, March 1st, 2021 and at 12.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a topical and urgent debate.
