ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICE: According to Parliament's approval from 3-6-2021, PLST's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its meetings of Thursday 3 June 2021, with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 1) ‘Standardisation of the Agreement on Science and Technology Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America and (b) the Amendment Protocol to the Agreement on Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation and Educational Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States’ and 2) ‘Following Annex XVIII to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of the Specialized Organisations with regard to the World Tourism Organisation and related issues’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday, 7 June 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Management and protection of the area of Thessaloniki, Seich - Sou". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 809/28-5-2021 by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Work exploitation of workers according to direct awards". 3. The Question No 814/30-5-2021 by MP Argolidas of Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Return of hospitals to normality with problems and suffering for the citizens". 4. The Question No 803/24-5-2021 by MP Aitolokarnania of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papastastasis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The dangerous situation created by shortcomings in the Centre for Health (KY) Katounas Ietokarnania". 5. The Question No 816/31-5-2021, by MERA25, by Mr. Konstantina Adamos to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Turkish training programs in the tour profession". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Implementation of school halls in the area of western Thessaloniki". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question under number 810/28-5-2021 of the Western Athens Department of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The state mechanism for dealing with forest fires". 3. The question asked by MP Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Exequation of age limits for men and women for a pension with a minor child (25 years/2010). 4. The Question No 805/25-5-2021 by Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct restoration and comprehensive protection of the forest area destroyed by the recent fire in Schino Corinthia". 5. Under number 822/31-5-2021, a topical question by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “The fire in Corinthia, West Attica - Gerania, is the most destructive, in terms of burnt forest area, of the last decade.” 6. The 811/28-5-2021 topical question by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The government has also left Thessaloniki sanitaryly. Neither central operational plan nor any new recruitment of medical and nursing personnel’. 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The Question No 818/31-5-2021 by the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "How will the functioning of the Heart Surgery Clinic be strengthened at the University Hospital (PGN) Ryu for the benefit of the citizens of Elias and Western Greece?". 8. The Question No 806/26-5-2021 by MP of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The OAED professional schools." 9. The question, under number 824/31-5-2021, by MP B2' Western - Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The positions of beekeeping associations, cooperatives, National Interprofessional Organisation of Honey and the Greek Scientific Society for Beekeeping are ignored in the decision on the functioning of the National Electronic Apiculture Register". 10. The Question No 813/28-5-2021 by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Zouraris to the Minister of Culture and Sports, on the subject: "Honey, positive opinion of the Central Archaeological Board on the request of the DIOR House for its demonstrations on 14, 15 and 17 June 2021". 11. The question by No 830/31-5-2021 of Mr Kegeroglou, Member of the Heracian Movement of Change, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The immediate declaration of the Classical Association of Hotels as compulsory". 12. The Question No 819/31-5-2021 by F' Vice President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The problem that has arisen with foreign workers in the primary sector". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice Under No 820/31-5-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Pieria - Progressive Alliance Mr Elizabeth (Bettis) Scooter to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The financial support of our country's cultural clubs is necessary". 14. Observed. The question by No. 832/31-5-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary I of the Movement of Change Mr. Charalambos Kastanides to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Due to the maintenance of the antiquities of the Venizelos Station". 15. The question by number 821/31-5-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP Iraklios Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "To strengthen the fire structures in the Municipality of Sitia Lassithi of Crete". 16. Observations of the Committee of the Regions The question by number 831/31-5-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of the Movement of Change Mr.Charalambos Kastanides to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Assignation of immediate measures to protect the Sea of Shah-Su". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 2551/10-12-2020 question by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Institution of a labelling system for food products with marks such as Nutri - Score'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Laconia of SYRIZA under number 5972/14-2021 - Progressive Alliance Mr.Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘The risk of reaping twenty-five irrigation projects under Measure 4.3.1 and the loss of almost 350 million euro from the Agricultural Development Programme (EAGG) 2014-2020’. 3. The question, under number 388/101/12-10-2020, and the request for the submission of SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance of Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "For two years, the delay in the award of pensions by the OGA." Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 15/13/23-2-2021 will be debated on the topical and urgent question by the Members of the Radical Left- Progressive Alliance, by Mr Ephremidis. Theophilos Xanthopopoulou, Christos Spirtzi, Dionysios - Charalambos Kalamatianos, Ioannis Giolas, Sultana Eleftheriadou, Spyridona Lappa, Konstantinos Markos, Eleftherios Avramaki, Ireni - Helen Agathopoulos, Tryphoon Alexiadis, Athanastopoulou, Alexandros - Christos Aylonitis, Vasilios, Kalliopis Vetta, Theodourou Dratis, Ephremidis, Ephremidus (Frossias) Karasarlidou, Irene - Ninas Kasimatis, Vasilios Kokalaki, Malama (Charavlou) Maleucosios, Astantoulousou, Athanasiakoulousias Palou, Athanasios Paloulou (Calisiasia), Athanasios Paloulis Palos Palou (Calioutou, Istan) The reason for the first questionable Member of SYRIZA Drama Law - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Theophilos Xanthiopoulos for 10 minutes. Of the other colleagues who are asking, because in the prototypes there is very little time, you will tell me, with an elastic interpretation of the Rules of Procedure, and secondaryity, that you may have more time to develop your views. One by one that's going up, I'm gonna ask him to tell me. Mr. Blondopoulos, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning, everyone. First of all, there is a technical difficulty and through 'Webex', our colleague Mr Lappas will intervene.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u3	It's written, Mr. Blondopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u4	It's written, however, it doesn't communicate. And there's a technical issue, that's what I'm saying. Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, today's debate is an exclusive matter of the situation of the penitentiary system and, when we say penitentiary, our thoughts go to Mrs Nicholas, in which we wish to successfully address her health problem, and I imagine that I am interpreting the feelings of the entire SYRIZA parliamentary group and of the entire House, for health and for it to succeed at this difficult time. Two. I begin with an abstention by Giannis Panousis, a professor of forensics, who also honoured the seat of the House, saying that "in prison you are entering because you have been punished, not to be punished." Therefore, this - in our view - is the lid with which we approach the operation of the penitentiary system. Unfortunately, however, the government's policy on the penitentiary system has strong elements and authoritarianism and one-sidedness. The doctrine of "law and order" is applied without mercy to the prisoners, without a strategic plan and knowledge, but in terms of television show. The right-wing policy includes'separatist' - in introductory terms - treatment, stricterization of everything, reduction of the licenses of the prisoners, curtailment of agricultural prisons, abandonment of social reintegration, neglect of education and employment, opacity, inefficiency, inactivity of controls and, of course, ignorance or ignorance of the international consequences that this may have in our country. In the same spirit, the degradation of collective scientific bodies, such as the Central Scientific Board of Guards and the expulsion from it, the removal of academic and judicial officials, is part of the same spirit. A bypass of collective bodies, for example the Central Transport Committee, and only one person, the Secretary-General for Criminal Policy, is observed. At the same time, neoliberal obsessions are also invading here, with a peak in privatising the penitentiary system. The business starts at the beginning of the 'project' - in introductory words - of the 'new' - in introductory terms - Korydallos designed by PPP, and in fact, in secret, without informing Parliament. The government sees prisons as an opportunity for state-owned entrepreneurship and distribution of public money and not as a means of implementing justice. Overall, government policy is summed up in a mix of authoritarianism and neoliberalism. So from the SYRIZA government's tripartite security, humanism, reintegration, go to a new model of zero tolerance, repression, security. Regression to a penitentiary model that has obviously been abandoned, for a long time, is also evident, and problems with the Council of Europe are expected, with incalculable consequences, indeed, of moral, political and economic. This policy has been hampered by recent Law 4760/2020 on the reduction of prisoners' permits, the shrinking of agricultural prisons and the substantial conversion of the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy to the “Ministry of Guards”. The Government of New Democracy has arranged for the General Secretariat to have its own financial service, its own technical service, its own Directorate-General for Personnel and Electronic Governance, by way of derogation from any other General Secretariat, with Minister of Ms Nicholas. This is an agency that has about 50 employees. And we see Mrs Nicholas' speeches and actions every day. This unfolds the political direction of the government for more imprisonment, more authoritarianism, increased restriction of rights, police operations and, above all, communication tricks. On the other hand, there is no organised plan, except for opportunistic communication movements and constant communications for police operations. It is worth noting that, while a few days ago, the three-year strategic plan for the penitentiary system of 2018-2020 was completed, but also implemented by the SYRIZA Government after consulting the Council of Europe has not been presented by the New Democracy Government for the next few years, as required by the European institutions. The political leadership of the Ministry of Citizen Protection, while verbally not rejecting the previous plan, is clear from its options that it has been put in the fridge, not to say that it has been thrown into the trash. An exceptionally serious problem in the penitentiary system is the transfer of authority from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. It is a problem of ideology, therefore, and also of function, a problem created by the New Democracy with the ideology of security, after the proper image of the friendly media has been cultivated. By Presidential Decree 81/9-7-2019, that is, on the next day of the elections, the General Secretariat for Criminal Policy was transferred from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. In this way, justice policy became a case solely of security belonging to the police, and responsibility was transferred with a pan-European originality to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Although scientifically prevailing at European level wants detention shops to be completely distinguished by the mechanisms of prosecuting, the government is deaf and original. It is a European originality, except for Hungary, Orban and half Spain, that is, but Catalonia, since prisons in all other countries fall under the Ministry of Justice. It is expressly stated by the Citizens' Counsel in the House in December 2019 that this transfer contradicts the principle of a distinction between police and penitentiary service that should exist. The second chapter is the overpopulation of detention stores. Based on the figures of January 1, 2021, ten thousand seventy - five places were then eleven thousand thirty - seventy - nine inmates. So there's 111% completeness. However, the picture is clearer, as it is the main volume of closed prisons, where overfill reaches 130% in some prisons, while in some it exceeds 150%. ........................................ But now, in some new prisons that have only cells and not chambers, overpaid means that overnumbered prisoners do not have a bed, but sleep on the floor. We have a hundred and fifty-four people in Nigrita, a hundred forty-four in Trikala, a hundred-four in Domokos, sixty-nine in Chania, while some of the so-called "old" have been placed after years of three-storey beds, in Alikarnassos and Tripoli. At the same time, authoritarian and hostile to the reintegration of a government policy has emptyd agricultural prisons. Thus, in the four rural prisons of the country, Agia, Kassandra, Kassaveteia and Tirynthas, completeness is only 66%. This situation will worsen following the adoption of the recent law that clarifies the conditions for switching to them. With Law No.4322, the Law of Friday, which was slandered and made a front in the political confrontation of the previous period, attempted by the SYRIZA government to dismantle prisons. It was a law incision because he faced the problem by looking into it in the eyes. All the deflational policies of the previous periods failed because they aimed only at the defects. While it is known that about 85% of the prisoners in Greek prisons are being held for felony acts, with its application this law decongested and dismantled the huge problem of over-accumulating prisoners. They were fired from prisons of about two thousand people, using the benefit of n.4322. And, of course, this was a snitch in the eye of the conservative view of the New Democracy, which, with the vipers in it, started attacking: "The prisons opened. The criminals are coming out." The results of this policy are being monitored today. With this outbreak of crime in the last few days when the country is in danger of becoming a province of America in the beginning of the previous century, the novel of the Law of Friday is returning, while we still have not seen who the killers are, who are involved, who are involved, whether or not they have previous violations and why legal or not they are outside the detention stores. But it seems that in the New Democracy logic, the major thing is to denounce a policy of decongestion of prisons in the world. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: there is a very serious problem, as we all understand it, and the quality of prisons and the number of prisoners. Today the New Democracy comes back with announcements and promises to every part of Greece new prisons without any planning and no sense of responsibility, just for the impressions. However, without a reformed spatial planning plan, i.e. a specific framework for spatial planning and sustainable development of detention shops for the preparation of which it is completely indifferent, every announcement is a firework and a simple propaganda. It is trying - and I would like to point out - to introduce the model of private prisons. Initially, the government spoke about the construction of the "new" villages of Korydallo by private individuals. Later, the maintenance and operation of the prisons entered, and it is an option for an anti-constitutional regime after being assigned to private state function belonging to the hard core of the state. The government treats prisons as business and not as a means of implementing justice. However, PPP has been announced for the new prisons of Chalkida and Korydallos. Finally, with regard to infrastructure, the government's action in the 'new' mattresses is being used away from Parliament, without any transparency. The Ministry of Citizen Protection, shaking the criticism of Antipopulation and the scam of the scientific community, hides the conclusion of the Relocation Commission of Korydallos because it is allegedly a military secret. It attempts to build the so-called "new" Korydallos with the exception of the rules applicable to public procurement and environmental protection, i.e. a fast track prison. Indeed, a bulldoz show with the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection is being photographed with the so-called military secret, i.e. the ruins of the former NATO base. While there is a state entity - CIS. - with great expertise in the reconstruction of public works and especially in the construction of prisons, it is bypassed to waste public money on various consultants or bodies. At the same time, the government is organizing an inauguration parade at the new detention store in Drama without starting its operation, but a training building, the cancellation of which had already been launched. I have just mentioned some of the topical and urgent questions that will be discussed. Our view is that the government must give adequate explanation. The rest of the chapters will develop my interlocutors in a row as they have been recorded. However, our criticism is constant because it is human beings who are detained and, apart from their right to free movement, enjoy all other constitutional prerogatives and rights. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u5	The second honourable Member, Mr Dionysius - Charalambos Kalamatianos, has the floor. Would you like your dentistry, Mr. Comrade?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u6	No, I don't think I need to, maybe I'll take a minute more, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u7	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it has, unfortunately, been three months before this topical question was discussed. We testified to February, now we have June. Of course, you have shown them your attitude to penitentiary policy as soon as you have taken over the country's rule the very next day. By Presidential Decree 81/2019 you transferred the entire penitentiary, anti-criminal policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection, i.e. you cut it off from its natural space, which is justice. You have overlooked even the fact that this choice is contrary to all European practice. Rule 71 of the recommendation of the Committee of Ministers of the Member States of the European Union, on European penitentiary rules, which explicitly stipulates that prisons fall under the responsibility of public authorities, independent of military, police or investigation services. You have overlooked all this and proceeded with your obsessed attitude to the penitentiary system and anti-crime policy. We are now coming to the heart of the issues. Two of the main problems of our penitentiary system are the overcrowding of prisoners and the lack of staff. These two problems, of course, are interlinked because the lack of staff also limits the rights of prisoners. Today the total number of prisoners is ten thousand, seventy-five - so many positions - and more than eleven thousand, eleven thousand, thirty-one in prison. Several prisons have exceeded 100% of totality, even 150% more. At the same time, we have the problem of the acute subsistence of officials in detention stores, which is giggled by the overpopulation of the detainees. The grim working reality experienced by detention shop employees and their complete abandonment now seems clear in the pandemic. Unfortunately, you have not received any provision for vulnerable groups of both detainees and workers. You have not taken any organised initiative to get the staff of detention centres and prisoners to a priori, despite the recommendations at European level. Abandoned, therefore, both the workers and the prisoners. The work of the staff of detention stores is understood to be a particularly important and demanding public service. The officials of these services - penitentiary and external guards - in addition to keeping detention stores help to protect the life and integrity of the detainees, to their penitentiary and to assist in the reintegration process, to be ready when the release time comes and to join society. Your policy on detention stores has caused very great shortages in staff. The service needs are enormous and the safety of both the workers and the detainees is a burden. The overworking of workers is increasing daily, unpaid overtime, due to a constant accumulation of days. The staff of all the sectors and specialties currently working in detention stores are really squeezing below the weight of the deficiencies. If you do not understand, Minister, the tolerances of all these people - officials, prisoners, health, administrative and external guards - are constantly being tested. They try to offer work in an increasingly burdensome professional environment. Do you really realize the daily elimination of personnel due to substation and serious gaps in organic positions? Admit, finally, the huge problem and tell us what your plan is and your plan to deal with this grim situation, because so far what you are doing is to cancel the full plan for the penitentiary policy that was drawn up and implemented by the SYRIZA government, which included, of course, the staff. The latest report by the Council of Europe shows once again the serious deficit and one of the serious diseases of the Greek penitentiary system, which is lack of staff and, indeed, the lack of first-line staff in the guards. Our policy in the penitentiary system promotes the security of prisoners and officials, humanism, reintegration and transparency. The SYRIZA government, despite the budgetary commitments imposed by the lenders, legislated to increase the organic staff seats of the detention shops by five hundred eighty. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, it ensured significant reinforcement of the staff in detention stores by notice 6K/2018 for more than five hundred posts, while ensuring the recruitment of a further six hundred and ninety employees for prisons, for example in the new Drama store. However, as far as two years have elapsed since your administration, there has been no completion of this notice. It is now clear that you do not have a structured policy on the penitentiary system and staff support. On the other hand, you are neutralising existing staff, maintaining in a working "host" those who have been recruited with the provisional tables and are not looking to issue the results of this notice. Your indifference and undermining the extradition of definitive results also appears to have not even started the training school for the ICU. That's something you haven't done yet they're waiting for. When are you going to take care of this? At the same time, you are ruling two years and you have done nothing about the necessary recruitment of personnel that the SYRIZA government has secured. Of course, they are people, too, and they have exceeded their limits. In fact, recently, fifty-two employees with fixed-term contracts with temporary results in the warehousing industry will be made redundant without their immediate and simultaneous replacement. Also, despite the crisis, you did no attempt to strengthen nursing homes with medical and nursing personnel. You had a great opportunity to do it, but you chose not to do it despite the health crisis. Furthermore, another question, Minister, is what you will do with the operation of the Penitentiary Academy. Since June 2019, you have been handed over a study on the operation of the academy, but you have probably misunderstood it, as for a lot of other things we have delivered to you. In fact, start with new working groups to have a new study. There is! Apply it and don't delay it! We have given particular importance to the issues of education and staff, and it is our intention to extend the training of staff and training programmes to all sectors and to all specialities. In conclusion - and I am closing down, Mr President - it is a provocative and unsuccessful policy that you follow in the penitentiary system, and of course you do not care about its penis, which is the staff who serves in prisons. With your policy you have the full responsibility of abandoning the basic components of the penitentiary system: personnel exhausted with continuous services and unpaid overtime lies within the limits of labour overcompensation, "burn out", if it has not already overcome them, and there is a huge delay in staffing and the completion of notice 6K/2018. You have no design specifically for the development of the Penitentiary Academy. Your general positions for the future are now enough. Citizens, officials and prisoners need immediate answers, direct commitments, immediate solutions and actions. We can hear you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u9	As you can see, I was right. None of you can complete in five minutes. Mr. Kalamatiano has already overhauled his denology. He spoke nine and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u10	I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u11	No, wait a minute. But I see the clock in front of me and you spoke nine and a half minutes. So I'm gonna put you in dentistry, and anyone who doesn't use it, will have it. The third honourable Member of SYRIZA, my colleague, Mr Ioannis Gollias, now has the floor. Here, Mr. Giola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take my dentistry time as well. I will quickly begin with the seven-sealed secret of the search for the transfer of parts of the Korydallos Booking Store, Ministers. The way in which you handle the matter personally, Mr Economou, was unprecedentedly contemptuous and insulting for parliamentary control. It has even been unfolded in sad continuations: two repeated documents to explain to us if there is any conclusion, to whom it was assigned, if there was sufficient scientific staffing, because we did not exploit the S.A. S.C., which also has citymen with completeness and adequacy, could indicate to you. Your trivial answer was that "we cannot report you and present you with the finding, because it is a document containing elements of military facilities". A major secret that the cats knew, the NATO ruin facilities since 1970 in Aspropyrgos could photograph them, film screenshots and often appear in the media in every detail! These were accessible to everyone and recommended the country’s great military secret! Even more recently, in the last request for documents we made since 19 November 2020, you responded as if you were answering Lieutenant B of Ljuy - I say it because it happens and is in my region - that "we have no added, we have no more to point out what has been said in an earlier reply". Mercy! The fairy tale, that is, is still on the supposedly classified military secret! If the sirial is not the definition of opacity and the crown of impartiality, then these words have lost their meaning. In any case, your attitude, Mr Economou, is offensive to parliamentary morals, but at the same time betrays the obscene contempt and disgrace to the citizens of the Egyptian region, the penitentiaries, the lawyers who visit, the guests, and in any case the relatives of the prisoners. The transfer, another major issue that was immediately launched by the New Democracy government, the power of penitentiary policy by the Ministry of Justice to the Protection of Citizens, proves that it was accompanied by a police perception of anti-crime policy and related actions. It seems your acquired speed for allegedly invasion and lawlessness in prisons that your media and your party had made your flag and front over the days of SYRIZA's governance to implement the doctrine "law and order" translated by you into hell and fight against human rights in prisons is constantly on track. You have reached the point where you have discovered a firearm, which I think is the fear of every minister in your chair, in the prisons of Corfu, and yet triumph, you who are supposed to take care and protection measures. There and in all other cases where you also made them public, and with praise, that you understood weapons, lamps, etc., why didn't the police guard and the zero tolerance you wanted to show to the insanity? We are also going to another topic on the prison scientific board, the eleventh power until then of which you have disembodied the members and the formation, mainly by flying out and in the basket of unusable scientific prestiges, academics, lawyers, psychologists, social workers. And you confined it to a five-member, who may be vulnerable to pressure from the Secretary-General or the Secretary-General, who chose to form two simple lawyers. In fact, when he was asked in the committee responsible for anti-crime policy by us he dared to confirm that one of them is a partner, so he knows him - probably also a best man from what the media writes - and to justify his choice because he was in the mood and mood of work and because he knew his who and his adequacy from previous co-operation. These respond, in the judgment of all those who understand. Who decided on all this by conferring overpower and responsibilities to an uncontrolled and personal body? Do you want to abolish democracy without limits of control and rules? Who will ultimately do the control, who will take the guard against what is going on in prisons of fair and unjust, mainly unjust, I mean prisoners. Anxiety, the removal of objective evaluation criteria is now a way of your chosen secretary who has replaced himself without any assessment and justification of almost half the potential of prisoners. It was a party instrument. A party bay of indebtedness and vengeance of your Government, relentlessly, unnecessarily and without any hindrance you removed seventeen booking shop managers from thirty-four, that is 50%. In fact, the twelve of them you snatched a monocodium. Sixteen sergeants were also removed arbitrarily without assessment, simply because they would not be pleasurable. Nearly all the directors who ceased were subjected to simple employees or were transferred, although many of them had more than twenty or thirty years of pre-service and, of course, AEI degrees, postgraduate and wealthy CVs. You have clearly violated fundamental constitutional principles of equality and dignity in covering a position of responsibility, free careers in public posts in the light of the personal value and competence of each employee. Is that the rule of law? What are your answers, Minister, to all of what the half-SYRIZA Parliamentary Group pointed out in our question on 13-7-2020? You have indirectly proclaimed the Secretary-General as the only director of the respective secretariat, but most importantly, I have checked the conditions for detaining the safety measures of detention stores. I mean, how? After you have awarded the only mechanism against corruption and lawlessness, the Bureau of Inspection and Control of Reservation Stores. What was the reasoning for the one-and-a-half-year delayed and you probably don't care to place him? It was supposed to be your intention to promote a relevant legislation to define the qualifications of selecting heads of this body. Mercy now. For a year and a half we've been looking for evidence to see what the boss's qualifications are? Rather, in your intentions, it is, as I said, the inactivation of any control over detention in detention stores with pretext and pragmatic reasons. Who will control the behaviour of infraction, the brutal acts of violence carried out in prison by guardians and prisoners among themselves? What do you have to say about the history of Deuce? You have made man a hunger strike and broke any record of inhumane and punishment policy. Who will control the beating conditions of Dimitrakis recently in Domos, student at the National Technical University that you're punishing him there? The man was found in the hell of these prisons and he dared to stand up and protect some of his colleagues. He's already in the hospital. And what happened? Has the SAD been ordered? The right actions have been taken to see in any case what happened? What about the press reports submitted recently by the three SYRIZA leaders, Mrs Gerovasilis, Mr. Xanthopoulos and Paul Paulakis, against Sofia Nikolaos and everyone in charge? Were you, Mr. Spirtzi? I'm sorry. Twenty-three categories for service contracts whose prices well exceeded not only the prices at which the like services of the other public bodies, including detention stores, were supplied for goods during the same period in autonomous contracts, but even the relevant retail prices on the free market. You've got over this indulgingly, too. And we're talking about decontamination, homicides, supplies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u13	Hang up, Mr. Giola.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u14	I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't need a minute. It is EUR 2.190.561 the surplus that the public has to pay for them on the basis of comparative tables available and accessible to everyone. Are you going to check all this or are they well burned? And one last thing, as I see the chairman of the Committee on Penitentiary and Anti-criminal Policy. Mr President, we have delayed the meeting. When is this finally going to happen? Last and last: once again an inconsistency, an act which does not honor the committees and parliamentaryism, was that in the report you wrote, it was not included in it and, as is the customary conclusion drawn up by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group. What's the point? So that's how much we have to hide our actions? What are we? Shadowedly presenting themselves? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u15	Dear Mr Giola, the last Conference of Presidents began sitting after the pandemic was interrupted by the special standing committees. It was not a question of the President who did not invite you, it was a decision following a health report from the Conference of Presidents. I hear you'll have next week. We're moving on with my colleague, Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. The SYRIZA government's policy on prisons was based on the three-fold security - humanism - reintegration. On the contrary, the policy of the Government of New Democracy has strong characteristics of authoritarianism and monotony. The “Law and Order” doctrine is implemented without any strategic plan, but in terms of television show. Right-wing policy involves a deterioration in the conditions of detention, a reduction in the rights of detainees and an abandonment of social reintegration, a deterioration in the education and employment of detainees, a general decline in rural prisons, a blockade of social benefits and the institution of semi-liberal living provided for in 1989. In education you have stopped all institutions involved in extroversion, you have done no new school, either learning a foreign language or a second chance, and no OAED program for art learning. Everything that SYRIZA had been able to finish is completely downgraded and everything that hadn't been ahead of you, everything that was on the stools you've stopped. With Law 4760/2020 you're totally downgrading the agricultural prisons. A large number of prisoners were excluded from the possibility of serving their sentence in rural prisons. This, of course, has already shown its results. Already the four rural prisons have 45% totalitarianity, while similarly in closed detention shops there is overpopulation, resulting in three-storey beds being returned to sleep on the floor. The conditions for living in closed shops are therefore deteriorating as a result of the inability to carry out their sentences in agricultural prisons, and that is why the prisoners themselves do not benefit from the agricultural prisons, which maintain farms and farms, but above all do not help to reinstate the prisoners in their society and their professional reintegration. For the institution of the semi-liberal living, which is provided for in Articles 56 and 62 of the Penitentiary Code and is provided, of course, as I said before, from 1989 on SYRIZA in 2017, a committee of officials from the Ministry of Justice was set up, which prepared a special study on the application of the institution in the central warehouse of Korydallos prison material. At the same time, it was sought and found a building from SYRIZA to host the institution. EUR 72,000 was provided for repair of the building, the project was auctioned by the Region of Attica and it was settled. At the same time, a step has been taken in Cyprus in order to be informed and trained on this institution. And of course, a draft ministerial decision was drawn up, which was handed over to the Minister of Justice, Mr. Tsiara, during the 2019 government change. What did you do? Absolutely nothing. In a question tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group you replied in July 2020 that you have informed and forwarded to the Secretariat of the Central Watchdog Scientific Council this study and all the pre-process that SYRIZA has done and expects to deliver an opinion from it. We'd like an update on what's happened. I shall now refer to social work. As you know, the foundation of social work has existed in our country since 1991. The Criminal Code, which was passed on to SYRIZA, predicted that prison sentences from three to five years are now being performed and their sentence is not suspended and are not being converted into money and at the same time necessary development of this arrangement was foreseen that social work is now a major penalty. And what did you do? You came and effectively abolished public service work. You are now making money for whatever penalties are carried out by public service workers. So whoever has money is paying. Whoever doesn't have money doesn't pay. There is no choice for socially beneficial work, which of course also helped to reinstate the punished, but it also helped to tackle the overcrowding of prisons. The New Democracy's conception of prisons is therefore purely punishable, in no way penalistic. So everything that could lead to the confiscation you do not accept and you are trying to change it for criminal prisoners, for political prisoners and for anyone else. What else are you doing? You make public relations and direct assignments and I come to Mrs Nicholas, whom I wish to see passing through. We requested in July 2020 a copy of an international economic relations and international criminal law degree from the University of France, Nicholas. You replied to us on 25 August 2020 that you have taken all the necessary steps to get the degree and that you are in the process between the consulate of Greece and France, in order to obtain the necessary documents. Please provide us with the degree. It's been almost a year. In the meantime, and while you have in no way targeted the reintegration and proper functioning of the penitentiary shops for the benefit of both the prisoners and the society itself, Mrs Nicholas has dealt with topicality through direct assignments. My colleague said before that we were forced as a parliamentary group to file complaints against her and to provide direct transparent assumptions to companies which have nothing to do with the subject of the award. Unfortunately, the activity of your government official, your chosen official, is so dense that I could not mention in a few minutes all her spectacular work. I would therefore mention, for example, the direct assignment of EUR 500,000 for cleaning services to a congress organisation company, the direct assignment of EUR 232,000 for the purchase of personal protective equipment to a company set up on 29 March 2020 to bid a day after 30 March 2020, the direct assignment of EUR 300,000 for the purchase of personal protective equipment and for the needs of the country's detention facilities to a food and beverage company, the direct assignment of EUR 47,000 for the supply of sanitary equipment to cover the needs of all booking stores in a automobile manufacturing company, the direct assignment of EUR 229 000 for the supply of masks to a company of seasonal ornamental goods and carnival clothes, and, finally, the direct assignment of approximately EUR 147 000 for the supply of nitrite for the needs of the detention stores with a price of EUR 17,5 at the same time as other services of your Ministry of Commerce were provided with exactly EUR 8,85 and, again, for the supply of EUR 144,000 for the supply of detergents in three months prior to the country. I will not talk about Mrs Nikolau's travel to Kos, the recreational trips for which you did not give us adequate answers to a question we tabled last year and I will not talk about the people she hired for her private, personal communication and promotion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u17	Are you going to tell us about the political prisoners?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u18	From what I said, Mr. Pleari, you kept...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Floris, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u20	You said there are political prisoners in Greek prisons. Who are they? Are you going to say their names?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u21	Don't you mind what I said about Mrs. Nicholas' direct assignments?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u22	When the time comes to talk, you'll ask what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u23	You're a lawyer, Mr. Pleari and a congressman...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u24	And I'm saying there are no political prisoners...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u25	...and you must ensure the interests of the Greek people...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u26	Don't answer that, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u27	Did you hear what I read before?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u28	Who's the political prisoner?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Flouris, did anyone tell you that you could do whatever you want in the Chamber?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u30	Are you interested in where the public money goes, and how does your government get the bracelet?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u31	When you talk, ask what you want. Close, colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u32	I'm sorry, but he interrupted me without having the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u33	Yes, but you've overcompleted your time. You see the clock in front of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u34	Well, I'm not interrupted by Mr. Plearis and just think about what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u35	Who is it? Kufontinas?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Flouris, for the last time I've noticed before I get up. It's over! Close, colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u37	In view of the above, Mr Minister, does the government finally intend to abolish agricultural prisons? They have been subordinated and very soon there will be a very important problem as opposed to closed detention facilities. Are you going to reinstate the institution of social work and activate the institution of semi-free life? What other steps are you going to take to strengthen the institutions of extroversion and education of detainees in order to achieve the primary objective of the penitentiary system, which is their reintegration? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Lappas has the floor. I'm giving you your denture, so you have the floor for eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to you, the Ministers and the dear colleagues and colleagues. Mr President, I have started with something that has been known throughout the country's legal world for decades. We knew from the conferences of lawyers, we knew from the legal schools, we knew from the associations of judges and prosecutors, we knew from the practice in our audiences and all the lawyers throughout Greece that for the paths, shortcomings and this image of reversal and despair, which stemmed from the way in which penitentiary policy had been exercised for decades, the main reason was in the way of awarding criminal justice. The result of the criminal justice system even ended up dirty in the penitentiary system. We've had extermination sentences for minor and middle-injurious offences. In fact, the Greek state in a strange way - not only in Europe, but in the world as a whole - abused offenses, always on the basis of news. And now the country is in danger of going into the same practice. We are listening to the Minister of Justice coming out in public and saying that he will restore the notion of atrocious crime, a concept that is now extraordinarial. There is no such thing as criminal law, criminal law and substantive criminal law, because it was abolished together with the abolition of the death penalty. And there comes a doctrine of strictness, which will lead the country back to a hell, the hell of Dante. This is the hell of the penitentiary system. That's the one I'm pointing out. The second point, Mr President, is that of you. You are experienced and president and MP. And I'm telling you something about the question of the transfer of penitentiary policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Priority. You know, Mr President, you better than anyone - and the ministers - Article 47(1) of the Constitution. The Minister of Justice and the Minister of Finance are the only ministers - and their ministries - that the Greek state cannot abolish. Everything else can be abolished, and the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of PDO, etc., merged them, transformed them. So there are two top ministers, the Minister of Finance and Justice. And now imagine this. He transfers the penitentiary policy to the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I ask them straight away. When there will be a case of grace, in accordance with Article 47 of the Constitution, which is solely the responsibility and responsibility of the Minister for proposing to the President of the Republic this graceful measure - a gift, a gift, a conversion, a moderation, the removal of the consequences of a penalty - who will exercise it? I ask in public and I expect an answer from the relevant ministers present: will the Minister of Justice exercise it, or will you, Mr Ministers, who do not have the power of the Constitution? I also ask, which as a question has already been transferred from Members of Parliament to the European Parliament: is it possible in one country for penitentiary policy, the management of prisons and prisoners to belong to the Ministry of Civil Protection and the leading act and choice of a penitentiary, which is the proposal to grant grace, moderation, the lifting of the consequences of a sentence with Article 47 of the Constitution, to belong to the Minister of Justice? This division is constitutionally tolerated? Mr President, I would remind you a few days ago of Kostas Javara's position as an experienced lawyer and politician. It was precisely in the same context and in the same sense it made its observations. And I think, if I remember correctly, Mrs Giannakou, who is here. I don't know if I'm wrong. I say this with one reservation. Third. That is what I am now developing, Mr President. The New Democracy, as opposition, has invested everything as an anti-political belligerent ram on the issue of security, and on the issues of detention stores in prison policy, namely, and society in general. There was a deposition of reports of terrible crime, that Chicago has become a member of SYRIZA, and even on the basis of the Law of Friday, for which in 1917 and 18 Mr Mitsotakis said he would be abolished, but which had already been abolished, because he had only been valid for a year. Such were the accounts and the burning of public speech. Not to say for scientific reasons, because scientists in the legal community know how to choose calmly, calmly, with soberness and precision, Mr President, something that has never described New Democracy since Mr Mitsotakis was elected. So he proposed the issue of security, with this he terrified the world. He told them infinite falsehood about a huge and multifactorial issue such as security and crime, that when New Democracy comes to govern, it will automatically allow Greek citizens to sleep with open windows. In fact, I have here in front of me and a statement from Mr. Mitsotakis, which scared me back then, in '18 and '17. He said: "Will you finally solve the hands of the police?". And he asked Mr. Tsipras: "Are you Prime Minister or a provocator of the criminals?" I reverse the question, Mr President, today to Mr Mitsotakis and to Mr Ministers: are you also provocators, Prime Minister and Minister? But I don't want to ask that question. It's mostly rhetorical. You shouldn't. Because Mr Chrysochoidis in his general rhetoric yesterday said something right, that we are all sitting on the same branch, and if we saw it with such narratives and arguments, it will be shattered, not only the Ministry and the parliamentary system, but also the whole country as a democracy. I'm just saying. However, Mr President, the Ministers must decide what they will do in the field of security, which is a huge issue, which, if they cut it off from any country and see it as a fragment outside of issues of freedom and justice, will become an authoritarian, police-type state. So we have to make a choice in our country what we are going to do and see it as a political system and we are helping. And we also helped the Commission, Mr President, with a comprehensive text of many pages on what is going on in Europe, what is going on in every European country, what is the results, what is the results, so that we can finally see what is best to do at the level of society, but also at the level of detention stores. Mostly the ministers, who are the representatives of the government today, must tell us: Have they decided to move the government into a consistent European process, or will you go on with the obsessions and ideas of security? What security? Today - the newspapers say it every day, I do not want to watch them - the roads have become Chicago at the time of prohibition. Every 24 hours and a murder, shots, in detention stores, infinite acts of violence. They never reveal them, of course, the "cut-off" media. And on SYRIZA every day headlines. Remember the "Bam and down" for the '18's Act of Paradise when its power was over in the early '16s. And Mr. Mitsotakis and you, Mr. Ministers themselves, said that the first thing you would do as soon as you came to power would be to abolish the Act of Friday, which had been abolished, because it was a single period of time. And not to say that decongestive laws have a long tradition in the country. And it is not a long tradition only because there is a need for the overpopulation and the condemnation of the country by the European Court of Justice. It is also because there is a directive to seafarers from the European Court of Justice, Mr President, from the EDPS, which says that no rule of law in Europe can provide for a limited period of imprisonment. Because the longer the prison time is reduced, the easier the prisoner's reinstatement is. On the contrary, the longer a prisoner's detention sentence is the more the relapse rate. For example, in America, which has very limited the underlying dismissal procedure, 75% of the detainees have been released. In Greece it is about 50%. The average in Europe is less, 20% -35%. In any case, I have to tell you, Mr Ministers, on the issue of security, particularly at the level of detention stores, if you do not see the causes that trigger the problem, you will never solve it. Because you will not solve a disease by stressing and investing only in the medicine. You need to see the disease. The disease is the general situation in the penitentiary system. At the last meeting of the committee, the New Democracy MP and forensicist, Mr Tsigris, raised the big questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u40	And that's what you'll close, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u41	Yes, Mr. President. In fact, to see that we have no obsession, SYRIZA also voted for Mr Tsigri's proposal saying: 'We want punishment or reintegration prisons? Do we want prisons of extermination or a second chance?'. And here, Mr President, he said: 'According to the answer we are going to give to these questions, the country's progress on the penitentiary system will also be drawn up'. I shall close, Mr President, with one wish. Listen, Mr Ministers, the findings of all associations, reasonings and bodies of the legal community. We have a lot of experience at the criminal audiences, and we know that the illness needs treatment. It's multifactorous, so he wants you to see it in a lot of ways. You cannot say that I am concerned only with safety and I am going to tighten the sentences. It doesn't work. He didn't pay off anywhere. Look at the European reality. See Scandinavia, which in twenty years has steadily reduced the number of booking shops by 70%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u42	Come on, Mr. Lappa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u43	So, Mr President, security without justice and without freedom will never be achieved. So it needs reintegration and humanism, with humanitarian criteria. Look at the issues and problems of the detainees because that only leads to solutions. Otherwise, we go to Dante's hell. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u44	We're closing with Mr. Marcos and Mrs. Agathopoulos. Then I will give Mrs Eleftheriadou the floor for a minute to clarify what Mr Ploris has said, and of course, if she wishes, I will give Mr Ploris a minute. Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, I hope that my intervention will not wake up to the abstract, abstractly far-right perception in this Chamber, as before. Mr Ministers, I personally address you, Mr Economou and Mr Chrysochoidis, and address your conscience. And I ask you: How can you sleep with quiet conscience, when based on the figures of January 2021, 110,000 three hundred and seventy-nine prisoners are hosted in ten thousand seventy-five positions, which means 111% completeness? And in some, in adults, the rate exceeds 150% and reaches 200%, as in Volos, Tripoli, Ioannina, Komotini, Kos. Mr Ministers, how can you sleep with quiet conscience when in some new prisons, as predicted, the super-numbered prisoners do not have a bed, but sleep on the floor, such as Nigrita, Trikala, Domokos, Chania, while in some of the old ones they have been placed after years of three-storey beds, such as Alikarnassos and Tripoli? Mr Ministers, how can you sleep with quiet conscience when, according to information already known, there are already three deaths and hundreds of prison cases in prisons of prisoners and officials, such as Diavata, Larissa, Patras, whose number is not exactly known why it is not made public? Mr. Ministers, how can you sleep with quiet consciousness when the way you chose to deal with the pandemic was limited to the distribution of public money with suspected direct assignments to “loomers” to insufficient health material and disinfections and to the taking of inadequate measures within prisons that essentially concerned limiting their rights to permits, visits, clothing, food, etc.Huh? Mr Ministers, how can you and sleep quietly when the workers themselves, their federation, ask for prevention measures such as vaccinations - for flu, as has always been done - which should have been carried out, segregating patients in vulnerable groups, carrying out detection tests for all, workers and detainees on a weekly basis, supplying all prison doctors with the necessary equipment and means of protection as provided for in the relevant legislation, carrying out recruitment of medical and nursing staff? It's a tragic situation. Also, a serious examination of the possibility of emergency decongestion measures - not even in these tragic sixteen months of pandemic - and the commission of special infectiouss in the design and treatment of pandemic in prisons. Instead, it is a given fact that vulnerable groups from prison and prison staff, including prison health personnel, have not yet joined the planning and vaccination. Mr Ministers, how can you sleep with quiet conscience when at the committee meeting on 1-10-2019 you yourself, Mr Economou, have explicitly recognised the acute problem of providing health care services to prisoners? You promised to take the necessary legislative, administrative initiatives to staff detention stores with medical and nursing staff and to cover the costs caused by medical expenses. You said that you were considering providing financial incentives in order to increase doctors' persecutors and to increase their interest. You assured that you are studying the use of rural doctors and saying that you are planning targeted interventions to improve and implement the medical coverage to non-AMKA prisoners. You didn't do anything. Mr Ministers, how can you sleep with a quiet conscience when at the same meeting of our committee we replied that the integration of healthcare providers of the penitentiary stores in the RIS is beneficial? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not be late, Mr President. We've already joined the prison store in SYRIZA. And at least he has an elementary adequacy of doctors because he has joined the ERC and is stemmed by ERC doctors. Why don't you move on to the rest of the stores to include health services and even to become autonomous directorates and to be able to function? You didn't do anything. Finally, how can you sleep with quiet conscience when you declared at the same meeting, Mr Economou, a allegedly promoted legislation on incentives for nurses, doctors, to avoid mass withdrawals, to lower pay limits? You referred to 700 euros in Korydalos special center, 500 euros on visits and 300 euros nurses. You didn't do anything. Finally, Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, within the prestige and anxieties which have been heard, a month ago, I told Patras that you have changed your administration and put director and sergeant controlled by the disciplinary board. You have noted this kindly and said that you will answer me. I haven't seen your answer yet. For the strategic planning that SYRIZA had made for the period 2017-2020 with one word, the Secretary-General said he had a security problem and was ignored. New strategic planning! With good intentions toward you, I do not think you are unconscious. I think, however, that what a modern American writer says might be true: 'clean conscience is a sign of bad memory'. I hope, at best for you, that you have a bad memory. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u46	The last question I asked, Mrs Irene - Eleni Agathopoulos. I'm putting you guys the time of dentistry, because in three minutes what to say. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President-in-Office, it has been said before that our policies, yours and ours, as far as prison institutions and penitentiary policy are concerned. SYRIZA's policy was characterised by the three-fold "security - humanism - reintegration", and your policy is characterised by the three-fold "zero tolerance - repression - punishment". This explains your complete indifference and inertia of your Government for education policy within prisons. You know, the establishment and operation of schools in prisons is and has always been the task of the state, so that there can be a smoother reintegration of the detainees into society, which, in the end, is also a question. It is therefore an institution in many European countries and in Greece as a means of combating illiteracy and social exclusion that schools should be set up within prisons. Moreover, the existence of these schools certainly requires stable staff and structures so that their operation does not depend on the will of the government concerned. It was in this direction that SYRIZA government Law 4521/2018, which provided a booking for the establishment of primary and secondary school units, as well as public IEKs and educational departments for foreigners, as well as for the place of advisers and training coordinators for the organization of educational programmes. After the change of government, after July 2019, the application of this law was referred to the bells. No educational structure has started to function since the New Democracy is in the government. On the contrary, those who already existed are in a lasting struggle for survival. Furthermore, a number of technical training programmes and actions, designed in cooperation with the OAED and other bodies, are not supported, as are the programmes for Greek-Russian prisoners, too, which have been launched for foreign prisoners, do not continue. And of course, as in 2014, your government had stopped building a school building at Drama Hotel Center - so that the government of SYRIZA would then come and complete it - so you did now in prison in Chania, where you stopped building that was meant for educational processes. But your anti-education policy does not stop here. You are undermining, not to say "fly into the cart of the useless", and other SYRIZA interventions to educate the detainees, such as the possibility of attending higher education institutions by electronic surveillance. Impossible the case of the prisoner Vassilis Diikis, in which, among other things, you showed strength a year ago, leading him to a hunger strike at the risk of his life. Why? Because he wanted to study. And why else? Because he reacted to the detention conditions and health conditions in the midst of a pandemic and you said to punish him for that because he reclaimed his rights. Instead, as is appropriate in a modern democratic state to reward a man who struggled, to be educated, in difficult conditions, who ended the school in prisons and managed to pass through a pan-Hellenic second across Greece at a university school, you went on to his arbitrary and punishing transition, depriving him of his right to education and, of course, to normal reintegration, when the time comes. You transported him violently and without any legitimate reason in the Grevena prisons from Korydallus, without any possibility of contacting his university and school. So instead of taking advantage of this man as a model of a struggling man who claims, studies and improves the extremely unfavorable conditions and depriving his freedom, he became another victim of your vengeance. In a stubborn sense, however, Mr Ministers and ladies and gentlemen, your destructive policies for our penitentiary system will always be there for people with thirst for learning, claiming better reintegration conditions and there will always be "Teachers" with capital delta, struggling with every means to help them, such as in the prisons of Alonas, who, in the midst of a pandemic - you know, I imagine - and while all children in the country have had lessons on line, the children there have not had that possibility, since the Internet is forbidden in their chambers and that is why they have no education. So their "Teacher", with a delta capital, Peter Damianos, moved earth and heaven to create a closed course channel, so that children would not lose a whole school year and did it, but the state should have taken care of it. And the question is, I close, Mr President. Did you learn lessons from these people, did you learn lessons from the pandemic? Will you use them to improve conditions from now on? We know, ladies and gentlemen, that prisoners and prisoners are only deprived of their freedom. It is time, then, to stop spending unnecessary money from here and there by direct assignments, to support health structures within prisons, to shield staff and prisoners and to arrange for training in all detention stores. Because you know the saying 'where a school opens, it closes a prison'. And I think we are in agreement with this, and it just remains for your government to prove it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too. Mrs. Eleftheriadou, you can take the floor for a minute to give clarification and if Mr. Ploris then wishes. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Plouri, you are a lawyer and I am a lawyer, apart from Members of Parliament, and we both know that there are prisoners and criminal prisoners and political prisoners who are in prison on the basis of a ruling of political courts and I am referring to the detention of articles 1047 next Code of Civil Procedure and that would be my only answer - I will continue to give you an answer to what you are saying - if we were not in this Chamber. I feel, however, that I must answer you politically. We also know, in our fellow Members' capacity, that there are many prisoners in Greek prisons - and we know who they are - who define themselves as political prisoners, invoking political motives. In no case do I or SYRIZA accept that designation, but every human has the right to self-determination. So I tell you, and I hope to cover you, that I meant the political prisoners, who are detained on the basis of a political court ruling, but I think I have given you an adequate answer to what you have considered. In any case, a little respect when someone talks, it's not bad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u50	That is a matter for the Bureau and I have protected you sufficiently.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u51	I would also like you to give me an answer on Mrs Nicholas' direct assignments, as a lawyer and as a politician.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u52	Thank you. Mr. Floris will answer you for the clearance you have had, for the rest when he speaks as a Parliamentary representative, he will say what he thinks. There you go, Mr. Plearis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u53	It would be very pleasant for the Members of Parliament to support what we are saying from the Step to defend it. Political prisoner does not exist as a term. Personality is not mentioned as a political prisoner anywhere. Whose prisoners are the prisoners, the detention you say is not a political prisoner. And if you meant that, when I interrupted and told you that there were political prisoners in Greek prisons and if Koufantinas is a political prisoner, you would answer from Stepa that you didn't mean that. But to cover, because you understood and after you came down and talked about it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u54	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u55	...what a problem this party creates in your party, because your party has to stand up and say if he thinks they're political prisoners. You have given your explanation, however, so as not to disappoint you say and how each individual determines himself. No, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, the right to self-determination exists in everything. The reason you're serving the sentence is a criminal reason. And from all the speeches here, it seems that since Kufontina's project did not work well, its alleged rights fell both in the Council of State and in the criminal courts, now, you are adopting Dean, which you are once again referring to things that will be judged in the courts. At last, take a clear position. Political prisoners are in Greek prisons? Do you recognize them? Mr. Spirtzi, you're the parliamentary representative. Get up and say that Kufontina is a criminal prisoner. You've had enough of him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u56	Now, listen, how do we keep going. It will take the floor and will be answered by the Undersecretary, Mr. Economou, to whom, mainly because of your responsibility, your question is directed. The Minister will remain in the Chamber and will listen to you all, as he has told me, and he will judge at the end whether or not he will take the floor. I think he'll take him. I just want your consent, because all the questions and all the positions you have made were on matters of responsibility for Mr Economou and now the Minister, who takes the long time, on the basis of the Rules of Procedure, has only ten minutes - in ten minutes the man cannot answer - to allow me to put 15 minutes to him so that he can reply. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, under Rules 135, 136 and 138 of the Rules of Procedure, the Government, and in particular the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, has to provide information and clarification on the planning and implementation of the anti-criminal and penal policy. This is a process which is taking place at a time when it has completed almost two years since the country's responsibility for governance has been given sufficient time to see the government's target in the critical area of penitentiary and to be able to draw the first complete safe conclusions. However, while carefully studying the contents of this topical question, it lacks essential accuracy, correctness and completeness, despite the fact that it refers to the whole of the exercise to date as an anti-criminist and penitentiary policy. It returns to questions which have been answered, reproduces inaccurate cases which have either been written or oral in this Chamber restored and repeats arbitrary findings and kilograms of formulated patterns, rich political ideas. However, today's parliamentary scrutiny is an opportunity to highlight the keys and essentials of the government's choices, which are not chosen to be followed by Equatorial Anti-Policy, and to choose, with a characteristic political priority, the early assessment and public drafting of conclusions, which were then disproved by the facts alone. The examples are enough. However, the timescales of the parliamentary control process insist that we focus on the main points that make up the position of Major Representation, as reflected in the timely question under discussion. There is no doubt that overpopulation that occurs over time in detention stores is a pathetic nature of our penitentiary system, which requires bold and complete solutions. The positions of Officer Opposition focus on solutions that have been tested and which have failed to have a serious impact on the level of public security, but also on a fact-finding factually, as it has been shown, declining overpopulation in the penitentiary shops. Decongestion for you is equal to the possibility of early release. For the current government decongestion is an objective that we are guided by a grid of successive initiatives every day. A central role in this is the decisions taken on improving, modernising existing detention shops and the creation of new ones that follow the most modern European standards and good practices. Beyond the relocation of Korydallos to Aspropyrgos, as well as the store of Dramas, whose start-up is imminent, we take all necessary steps to complete the general booking store "Crete II" in Kournas Lassithi, the relocation of the Chalkida detention store, the relocation of the Ioannina detention store, the creation of a new booking store in Megalopolis, as well as the creation of new places in the already existing detention stores of Nigritas and Chania. In particular, as regards ‘Crete II’, this is a project which has been frozen since 2017 depriving more than six hundred positions in the country’s entire penitentiary network. Since September 2019, the accelerated process of creating new stores has already become an absolute government priority in order to achieve the desired decongestion. In November 2020, the construction site of ‘Crete II’ was reopened after a multiannual interruption. In December 2020, outstanding payments were repaid that had led to the suspension of work and now as a number of weeks ago, the work was intensified by the date of receipt to be identified for June 2022. With regard to the new penitentiary store of Chalkida we are now at the stage where we are expected to start work on testing in one of the properties in question, which is located in part of the former sphere of firing of Chalkida. Equally important are steps towards the implementation of the relocation of the Ioannina detention store. It was submitted by the Committee for the Evaluation of Adequacy a comprehensive proposal for a suitable place in the area of Concica of the Municipality of Ioannites. The municipality in question has made a decision to grant a donation of the appropriate area and the relevant procedures will soon be completed. A relevant programme contract has also been signed between the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy and the Ministry of National Defence, which provides for the implementation of the next steps to carry out the transfer of the Ioannina detention store to new facilities that meet the most modern European standards of detention and good practice. Also, initiatives to strengthen the capacity of penitentiary shops of Nigrita and Chania have already been taken. Two new wings of a total capacity of 20 are already in operation in Nigrita. Similar actions have also been taken at the detention store in Chania, where a hundred and twenty new posts have been added, thus contributing to the dilution of the detainees in the penitentiary and, more generally, to the declining of the overpopulation phenomenon. In other words, we have already added two hundred forty new posts to the penitentiary. Several executives of the Grand World, and also of the Eleanos Anti-Population, have repeatedly attempted all this time to correlate the pandemic of COVID -19 with the urgent need to dismantle by exerting pressure on their positions so that the government can draw on a proven failed solution such as the one adopted by the previous government with the pretext of protecting the health of detainees and workers this time. And while no one doubts the need for overcrowding initiatives in the penitentiary shops, I assure you that it will be implemented through the above-mentioned grid of actions and not at the expense of public security. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Government assistance to infrastructures has not only been limited to the design and implementation of the construction of new detention shops. Particular attention has been paid to the necessary preparation through legislative initiatives that we have adopted with a view to making it possible to implement acts of upgrading and modernising the already existing network of penitentiary shops. Thus, Article 84 of Law 4759/2020 of the Ministry of Environment and Energy has been legalised for the first time for twenty-six arbitrary detention shops in order to address the problems of many decades in their facilities and to allow repairs, maintenance and technical checks to be carried out. In addition, in accordance with Article 33 of Law 4786/2021, the transfer of ownership of all the real estate of the FIFG, in which the detention stores are housed, as well as of the property of that fund intended to build prisons, with a view to their complete ownership, integrity and ownership by the Ministry of Civil Protection. We are now in the last stage, where the competent department of the Ministry of Justice will adopt the relevant instruments. Our actions around the building infrastructures are not only limited to upgrading and improving them. We are particularly focused on the possibility of accessibility of people with some form of disability, whether they are prisoners or visitors. Within the framework of the National Plan on the Rights of Persons with Disabilities we are attempting to improve the living conditions of disabled persons in detention stores, as well as their accessibility from guests of AMEs. At the same time, we also aim to strengthen the operational readiness of the guardian's system in cases of critical conditions. A working group has already been set up since the end of 2020 by the General Secretariat of Crime Policy, which is framed by qualified scientific staff from the Centre for Security Studies. An examination of the existing status of infrastructure in detention stores has already been completed in the light of the criterion of accessibility and of ensuring respect for human dignity, and will be followed by specialisation of accessibility improvement projects in those infrastructures. These are serious initiatives of respect for human dignity which neither as self-evident nor as data should be dealt with by some of us who managed the penitentiary policy of the previous period. The improvement and modernisation of existing infrastructures without the necessary capacity and training of human resources would be an effort without essential content. In the field of human resources, too, very important steps have been taken. Progress is essential, taking into account the situation in July 2019 and the unprecedented conditions imposed by the pandemic to date. Let's see, then, what you did deliver in July 2019: You delivered a competition - the famous 6K/2018 - which one year after his promotion had not been completed. And while one would recognize through this initiative your sincere interest in strengthening the human resources that he serves in the penitentiary shops, you are only two months after the notice and Article 278 and you strip the services, allowing the five hundred and three former municipal policemen, who have already been working on them as guardian and external guardian - thirty-seven guardian and forty-six foreign guardian - to be transferred again through mobility to municipal police services. This has led to a targeted weakenment of these sectors of neuro-algal importance for the proper functioning of the penitentiary shops. The result? Subsequent to the transfer of two forty-two employees to the Municipal Police by June 2019. Of the remaining three hundred forty-one left, seventy-seven more were transferred to the second mobility cycle of 2018 and fifty-five more with the first mobility cycle of 2019, dramatically weakening the strength of the Safeguard and External Guard services. The outflow of personnel due to this conscious governmental selection of yours on the basis of the above provision continues gradually for the remaining former municipal police officers in the penitentiary. Therefore, any interest you allegedly display on staffing matters is purely pretextary, as the political legacy you have left and accompanying you as a government in this matter is linked to conscious stripping and weakening of security and external guarding services. We have tried repeatedly to bridge the gap that you left through legislative initiatives. We have worked out a legislative initiative, which has been passed and allows the AACC to forward provisional lists of successful candidates of notice 6K/2018 and to be recruited under a fixed-term private law contract of 12 months, within which it is estimated that the procedures of notice 6K/2018 will have been completed. So at this stage, I would like to inform you that we are at the final stage of consultations with the Ministry of the Interior and Finance for the adoption of the necessary joint ministerial decision, as set out in the relevant Article 72 of Law No 4795/2021. Already within the next few days, the relevant dossier with the OSH will have been sent to these relevant ministries. With regard to further human resources support initiatives, I would like to inform you that the procedures have already begun in cooperation with the Higher Council for Personnel Selection to call three hundred and eighty-one seats in all detention stores in the country, and in particular, the fifty-two positions of scientific and administrative staff have already been opened and the necessary rest will be followed up to cover all of the fifty-eight staff. Government initiatives on staffing issues are not limited to actions to strengthen it. The issues of his education and lifelong learning are of paramount importance. So we move fast in the stages of creating a penitentiary academy. It will operate in specially designed facilities for training and accommodation at the Women's Olive Oil Tree Penitentiary under the supervision of the Directorate-General for Reservation and Crisis Management. The necessary technical work and the supply of the necessary computer and graphic equipment have already been completed. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance for a while. Two schools will operate at the Academy: School of Penitentiary Officers and School of Foreign Guards. The academy will include basic introductory and lifelong education, training and retraining programmes. To this end, cooperation will be developed with the relevant educational and scientific bodies in the preparation of the curriculum and the organisation of seminars, conferences and workshops with a view to appropriate further training of staff for the reform and modernisation of the penitentiary system. In this direction, a working group was set up as early as December 2020 for the study, preparation and development of a curriculum of the penitentiary academy, taking into account, inter alia, the submitted proposal of the programme of introductory and continuing education of the Sanctions Academy of Austrian Technical Assistance, to which you referred. A proposal for an introductory training programme has already been submitted for officials of the secondary and secondary education branches to be appointed, in accordance with the final tables of AACC notice 6K/2018. The work of the working party shall continue in order to complete the relevant proposals for both basic and post-training programmes for all staff of the detention shops in the country. At the same time, a significant number of targeted training programmes have been implemented in the context of upgrading education and training for penitentiary staff. Relative table with more information about them I submit to the Minutes. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, proposals for actions have already been drawn up under the National Action Plan to address the phenomenon of sexual harassment and abuse with a view to promoting equal opportunities in workplaces and other places to prevent and tackle the phenomenon of sexual harassment and abuse. The planning, development and implementation of government initiatives in the field of education do not know any sort of separation. The main priority of the described penitentiary policy is the safeguarding of the right of detainees to education and the upgrading of the services provided in relation to it, with a view to strengthening the individual and social skills of detainees and preparing their social reintegration after release. At the beginning of the school year 2020-2021 educational structures were recorded in the “Customs Education Institution for minors of Male Volos”, as well as in twenty of the thirty-four detention stores, i.e. students and students detainees. These structures are recorded as follows: typical primary or secondary in nine detention shops; second-time schools in thirteen detention shops; public institutions in three detention shops. At the same time, there is also the significant number of private students of prisoners in penitentiary establishments where secondary education structures are not in operation, as well as students detained in university institutions. We have also taken all necessary steps to the competent services of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs with a view to continuing the operation of existing structures and creating new ones. These actions stem from the Government's sincere conviction that the urgent need to upgrade the level of education for detainees as a means of facilitating their reintegration into society as a whole, but also as an important parameter to avoid relapsing them and rescinding their freedom. Therefore, not only does it raise no question of interrupting the educational processes, but we have given a good timely opinion and we have taken every action to the co-authorised ministry with a view to relaunching the training process as quickly and safely as possible in the country's penitentiary. We also documented and informed of the facilities available in detention stores that do not operate structures and had not been placed with advisers - training coordinators in the context of upgrading and extending training structures in detention stores, in close cooperation with the relevant services of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. I am also tabling relevant documents in the Minutes, which highlight the whole of these initiatives. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Particular attention has been paid to the planning, development and implementation of training, employment and training programmes for detainees. For example, I would like to mention some of the points that these actions are more detailed in one more document I present today in the Minutes of the Greek Parliament. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In the context of highlighting these initiatives for the training of detainees, special attention is paid to their programmes for Agricultural Control. The partnership with ELGO - DIMITRA in the form of a Memorandum of Cooperation provides for the vocational training of detainees in modern cultivation practices and techniques. A curriculum has already been drawn up for detainees of rural detention centres, including theoretical education and practical section 12 and seventy-two hours respectively. Following the successful completion of the whole programme, a certificate of training in plant production will be issued by ELGO - DIMITRA. The aim of this cooperation is to make more efficient use of the agricultural areas and buildings situated close to the rural detention shops, as well as to explore the possibility of creating new agricultural detention complexes, as well as the vocational training of those detained in them. The entire project will start piloting from the Agia Chania Agricultural Store in collaboration with the Institute for the Olives of Subtropical Plants and Vine with the aim of extending this initiative to other rural detention shops. Finally, I would like to make a special reference to an action that is being developed in the context of the support and training of the detainees. The aim is to incorporate the action "Academy of Parents" into the European Programme "ERASMUS" and to activate it as a funded project called "Nessor", with a body co-ordinator of the Centre for Security Studies of three years. Its aim is to strengthen the parental role of parents of detainees, creating a network of thirty schools of parents in twenty detention stores. At this stage of implementation, we are currently conducting the research stage to imprint the needs of intervention and develop the relevant action plan, defining detention shops, as well as the objectives of this project. It is expected that the investigation stage for these issues will be completed by the end of August 2021. Government care for detainees is not exhausted in their support only for the period of deprivation of freedom. It extends through a set of initiatives and actions and during their release to the reintegration plan. For the government, upgrading its institutions of post- penitentiary care is a priority and, therefore, initiatives at legislative level - and not only - are aimed at appropriate staffing, but also at expanding the return which is the main body responsible for developing post- penitentiary care both within and outside detention centres. These initiatives respond to the limited potential of the return in relation to the demand for the turnover of the structure in question. This is because already the limited repatriation services, which can potentially have significant benefits for the integration of detainees into society, are confined to the capital where the only post- penitentiary care structure is currently in operation. At the same time, the aim is to provide an effective link between the training of detainees and the labour market. All this has led us to conclude that new structures are needed perfectly staffed so that they can implement the necessary extroversion actions. This is why, through Law 4760/2020, there is provision for the establishment of annexes to the home of every penitentiary store in the country. The aim of vocational training, rehabilitation, financial support, preparation and promotion of the general reintegration of detainees and detainees. We are planning the organization and operation of annexes to Thessaloniki, Chania, Patras Komotini, Chalkida and Volos, and will soon be given a ministerial decision. It has already been granted real estate for five years by the Regional Unit of Magnesia and Sporades for this purpose. Such actions will take place for the other areas where the establishment of Annexes is housed. At the same time, we have increased to twenty-three the organic positions of the return staff, and we are already taking the necessary initiatives to start their work in cooperation with the Ministry of the Interior and Economics. In addition, the operation of the Repatriation Offices at the Korydalos 1 Reservation Shop has already begun and the establishment of corresponding offices is being considered throughout the country's detention stores. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all these initiatives, the actions which have been presented briefly under the closest control of parliamentary control, have not been implemented in a vacant manner. We have survived and continue to experience a situation which is particularly dynamic by overturning, booming, with data that is constantly changing under unprecedented uncertainty which partly justifies some who are asking for solutions here and now to the timeless pathogens that characterise the country's penitentiary system. The friction of the pandemic of the deadly CIVID virus -19 on a global scale was admittedly fierce. State's duty throughout this period remains to ensure public health, with particular emphasis on all those belonging to vulnerable population groups. These include the population living and working in the penitentiary stores in our country. All this time I have had the opportunity to inform in writing and orally members of the National Representation tens of times about the course of the management of the pandemic and about the many initiatives, measures and actions that we have taken during the first and second waves of the pandemic. In the face of all those who have chosen to work politically on such a crucial issue, we with a high sense of duty have drawn up an integrated plan for the pandemic in the network of detention stores in the country, which is summarised in health protection measures, measures to avoid confrontation and contact with possible cases, measures to prevent health, supply and distribution of health material, the design and coordination of measures to prevent, inform and avoid the spread of viruses in detention stores. Cooperation with services of the Ministry of Health, with EGE and the Red Cross has been uninterrupted and intensive. So, from the beginning of the pandemic to June 3, 2021, sixty - sixty - three diagnostic controls of antibodies have been carried out, of which twenty - seven thousand four hundred fifty five have employees and thirty - eight six hundred thirty - eight in prisoners. Officials in parallel with recent provisions will carry out self-diagnostic checks, self-tests. At the same time, the uninterrupted disposal of protective and disinfection equipment has continued in all detainees and workers throughout the country's penitentiary structures. Particularly high social value and symbolism was the donation of the Greek shipowners to the critical battle against the pandemic. Faithful to the long-term high sense of social responsibility and solidarity with vulnerable population groups that characterize it, it ensured the free replacement of types of clothing and insight for all detainees. Thanks to her direct reflexes and her noble support we managed to change everything. Through this act of solidarity, eleven thousand four hundred eighty-nine layers were available, eleven thousand four hundred nineteen blankets, eleven thousand five hundred cushions, eleven thousand five hundred white bath towels, eleven thousand five hundred white face towels, eleven thousand five hundred white cushions, twenty-three white beds. The provision of implementing directives that have been constantly updated special health protocols for suspected or confirmed cases, as well as measures to prevent cases from occurring in detention stores. As is clear from the evidence available to you and what I have developed to you regarding the management of the pandemic in the area of penitentiary, we have done all this time every human effort possible to protect detainees and workers in prison. The data are clear and disprove those who predicted with characteristic political irresponsibleness thousands of cases, dozens of dead, who have invested politically in a vicious scenario, above all for the health and life of those who live and work in the confiscation structures of the country, with only a view to lure the government into a tested and failed political choice of decongestion in an inner-party balance. Ladies and gentlemen, this pandemic reality that we all experience is now difficult to describe in words. But one thing is for sure. A pandemic that costs health and the lives of thousands of citizens cannot be declared by fundamental political decency and respect for human life to understand and describe it as an opportunity to promote its political perceptions and positions. The horn pandemic for all of us is an accelerator of developments and initiatives on chronic issues that we have identified as requiring solutions, such as technological digital evolution in the field of prison structures and how it works. So during the health crisis we placed particular emphasis on the institution of telematics. The use has been intensified. All the necessary procedures were carried out to obtain the necessary equipment to make the detainees' access to the teaching process uninterrupted and to ensure as far as possible the continuation of their studies. A similar care took place the institution of the online visit. We have taken all these steps towards the rapid expansion and implementation of this institution in all the penitentiary stores, understanding the value of uninterrupted and uninterrupted contact with the community as a whole, especially under the unfavourable conditions created by the COVID pandemic -19. We created in collaboration with the Greek Red Cross a line of psychological support for penitentiaries and external guards as well as a COVID-19 mental management guide for prisoners in collaboration with the “Aegean” hospital, which was a useful tool for informing the detainees. The detention shops despite the pitiful predictions of some have been up to now through a plan, methodicity, hard work and persuasiveness of all of us, but above all of those who work in them, as well as through understanding and spirit of cooperation at the critical times of those who lived there, as well as of their families. All those who have attempted and continue to do so to date opt for the politicisation of a health crisis, especially in the extremely sensitive area of detention stores, a need to remember. When you conflict with reality itself, you'll eventually be defeated. Government initiatives in the field of providing healthcare services for prisoners in prisons to protect against the spread of pandemic and other broader targeting continue to focus on the priorities of the leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection. They're moving on three main axes. Firstly, reinforcement of the health staff who manage detention shops. Secondly, planning, development and implementation with co-responsible ministries and programme agencies and actions towards more complete health coverage of those living within prison structures. Thirdly, planning and supply of the necessary modern medical equipment to expand the medical and nursing services provided within detention stores. In this direction, already in June 2020, the Special Centre for the Health of Korydalou detainees has been equipped with modern medical equipment, in cooperation with the Piraeus and Aegean Health Region, which includes a modern biochemical analyst, as well as a cardiogram. The next period is planned to implement the installation of ultrasonic machinery as well as ophthalmological equipment. Particular reference is to be made to the intensive effort made to extend the telemedicine system, with priority to the structures of island Greece. We move quickly towards the necessary steps to launch the telemedicine system at Kos Booking Shop, as well as the creation of new telemedicine stations for the Korydalou complex and the Special Youth Volos Booking Shop and their interconnection with the National Telemedicine Network, always in close and continuous collaboration with the Ministries of Digital Governance and Health. We promote and develop partnerships with bodies such as the Hellenic Hepatitis Study Society and the Patients Association "Prometheus" for the design and implementation of a medical protocol for the eradication of viral diseases - already applied to Trikali and Larissa structures and are planned to extend further -, the Hellenic Red Cross through a three-year first aid training programme for prisoners and workers, the Scientific Mastological Support Society and other voluntary bodies to carry out examinations of breast cancer, as well as ottometric, endocrine, and liver elastography for chronic hepatitis b and c patients. Thus, the sanitary support actions also extend to the major question of combating drug addiction. In cooperation with the Center of Extended Persons and the Agency against Drugs, programmes are being implemented in twenty-four detention shops and plans to extend them to all detention stores. An important action is the Health Without Barriers programme, implemented in five detention shops, in collaboration with the Association of Patient Hepats of Greece "Prometheas" and the Sovereigns of Greece "Theoretical Voice". The purpose of the very important action of particular symbolism is to highlight the value of the right of detainees to health, to ensure uninterrupted access to diagnosis and treatment, to eliminate the post with infectious diseases and to train, raise awareness of detainees, and also to combat health-related phenomena and exclusions. Finally, I would like to point out that efforts regarding the necessary staffing of detention stores, with the relevant medical and nursing staff, are going on all this time. All necessary steps have been taken to recruit and serve prison structures by visiting doctors of various specialties. Following calls for expressions of interest from detention stores, thirty - eight doctors were interested. All the measures provided for in the Act will be followed for the completion of this procedure. Having toured among some of the most important government actions in the context of anti-criminal and penitentiary policy, it becomes clear even to the most skeptical that the government has a structured and carefully structured programme for the area of penitentiary. Every day we implement an integrated action plan, 'Action Plan', with clear targeting. At the same time, a working group has been set up to prepare the new strategic plan for the period 2021-2023, which will reflect the strategic objectives and priorities of the penitentiary system for this period. The new strategic objectives will be based on the following pillars: administrative reorganisation, security, infrastructure, staffing, education, training of officials, education, training, training, prisoners, cultural activities, social reintegration of detainees, extension of the use of alternative detention measures. Initiatives have also been taken to revise the penitentiary code. There was an urgent need for such action, so that the new code would be more fully in line with modern European standards, international conventions in the directions and good practices of international organizations. For this reason, a joint working group of Coreper Ministries for Civil Protection and Justice was set up, which will draw up the relevant report, which will mark the start of the procedures required for the legislative initiative. The action of this working party is scheduled to start immediately. With the needs of the country's penitentiary system to multiply and in the light of the more effective implementation of the above '21-23' strategy, we have taken the necessary initiatives in time to lead to a comprehensive structure and staffing of a central agency, which is able to carry out its mission by ensuring the proper functioning of the network of the country's penitentiary structures on a daily basis. At the same time, collective bodies such as the Booking Store Inspection and Control Body are strengthened at the level of competence, but also staffing as a modern control and supervisory mechanism that will effectively assist the state's difficult task in ensuring the proper functioning of the country's penitentiary stores in accordance with the increased demands of a modern European penitentiary system. In fact, a hearing was concluded by the competent special standing committee of the Parliament, which gave a favourable opinion on the appointment of the Head and alternate to that institution. Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude my initial position I hope that the completeness of this content, as well as the number of items I have tabled in the Minutes, will be a useful source of further information. I hope it will be a tool for highlighting, suggesting or even critical. In addition, as I have already pointed out, it is necessary and always welcome when it is held on the basis of elements, political positions and always on terms of parliamentary decency. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too, Minister. We shall now proceed to the parliamentary representatives. Mr Spirtzis has the floor from SYRIZA, Member of the Eastern Attica Region.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, transfer our sincere passers and our wishes to Mrs Nicholas. It is neither a pretext nor a formal one, nor a wish is sincere. Secondly, Mr Plouris, I have received the reply from Mrs Eleftheriadou. There are no political prisoners. There are, however, political courts in Greece today, but you are on a very good path and I will then explain it if you carry on like this. And if anyone gets bored if there were political prisoners in our country, it's your side. Don't be looking to find a counterweight to this, you have a heavy legacy on it. Take your policy otherwise, because what you have been implementing in the last few months is in this direction. Ladies and gentlemen, colleagues and fellow SYRIZA Members have developed the disastrous consequences of government policy in the most euphemistic penitentiary system. The system that we now have is a punishing system, it provides for another logic than that which is not SYRIZA, but European culture and international conventions define in relation to security, humanism, the reintegration of the citizens who are inside the penitentiary. They developed the issues of overpopulation. The Minister replied that new prisons would be built. They responded and raised questions of zero prevention for pandemic, unfortunately. For the staff and the adequacy we didn't get a reply, Mr. Economou. How did you change those responsible in the penitentiary? On what criteria? Of course we know why we meet with the trade unions and the penitentiaries and the police and external guards, the abandonment to which you have left the staff and the police and the penitentiary system, the total abandonment and equipment, to those who need workers, who are in closed structures and to the frontline of the battle, particularly now in the battle against pandemic. You don't even cover the self test. They ran through the EHR, when half the prisoners in the stores and all the penitentiary officials in Drama and Patras and everywhere. Of course there's a hypotension. And here I want to make a report, because Mr. Economous has already accused us of taking the executives, he says, the City Police and we took them to the municipalities. Mr. Economou, again the New Democracy government with the Minister of Public Administration, if I remember correctly, Mr. Mitsotakis who wanted to close the structures and fire public officials, annulled the Municipal Police. You took the people and took them as sheep to slaughter, where they saw a civilian parking, treating and keeping penitentiary stores. And you're foreseeing us for re-establishing the Municipal Police? Retire it! And turn them back into zero-education. Did we leave a gap? Apparently not. Just what didn't we do? We have left no gap, because these positions have been covered, over five hundred seats have been supplemented by eight-month contracts, by the provisional lists of 6K - and you know that - in other words, from the provisional lists of the AACC, not the planned competitions that you have made. We didn't get any answers about all these complaints made by Mr. Economou, really no response. Mr Chrysochoidis, the Minister, has served in other ministries. He has experience of public procurement, he has experience of emergencies, when you need to do a short process, as the law stipulates, to heal, whether at the procurement level or at the project level, some emergency. Listen to some companies - I will just say and wait for your comment - that have been recommended to meet these needs. They're fourteen companies. One was set up without having offices and employees, as soon as an offer was made. He had no other business. The other was only set up two months before the assignment. Also, there was no offices and employees, no commercial activity until the assignment by the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy. Four companies amended their statutes a few days before, on a case-by-case basis, the assignments of the General Secretariat to include the subject-matter to their final purposes. Four companies did not have any activity in this sector, as they were mainly engaged in a profession with completely irrelevant objects such as the sale of automotive windmobiles, seasonal and Christmas articles, grocery store, household equipment. One company did not have an entirely earlier or later participation in any public procurement procedure with homogeneous goods. Three companies appeared, at the same time as the awards, to offer on their websites or as participants in other competitions the items at much lower prices. And we're asking, are we going to get an answer for them? We will get an answer why you have, in an alibi sense, introduced pandemic, while European legislation has been in place in the national legislation that was harmonized in SYRIZA for such situations, why have you been by pas, why have you bypassed the Court of Auditors, EACHS, all the independent authorities? Mr Economou, in reply to you on 24 August 2020, because the debate is about detention stores, you replied to us for seventy-one deaths of prisoners in the penitentiary, for most of which - you have answered us - you did not give the cause, because there had been no forensic reports, necropsies, morgues. We ask: How many people have the dead arrived today in the penitentiary and why? Will you tell us? You've done a great analysis, in your view, of what you've planned, what plans you've got around doctors and programs with various hospitals and health structures in the country. I imagine you should tell the Department of Health and do something there too. But you didn't hire a doctor in the penitentiary. One, that's for the eyes of the world! Not even in the public health system the ones they should have. And here we'll testify. They're contractions and injuries lately in prisons, showing what happens. You have another philosophy, another direction than ours. But, for God's sake, look at the results. You're not looking for penitentiary and reintegration. Although I was at the Ministry of Infrastructure, we sat in the courtrooms with Peter, the prison teacher, and we looked at how we could enrich the curriculum, the studies of prisoners, prisoners. Take them, for example, to the modern headmaster of the Plaka Bridge to become rocks, to do music lessons, to get into society changed. You're not in that logic, I get it. But don't let the prisoners be in another logic. People enter for robbery and come out with a "doctoral" in murder and drug trafficking. The media, which, as far as you know, we do not control, police officers - we all know police officers - all those who are involved with either the Greek police or the penitentiary are told that these stores are full of drugs, prisons are full of drugs. And we ask: How many checks were made? Why did you stop the checks from the outside guard? Why? They say most death contracts are organised through prisons. And we ask, what are your services doing, and the Greek police and the NSA? Is she okay? What have you done with the supercorns? One of the U.S.A., one of the army, one of the police, watching "VIBER", "WHAT'S UP" and I don't know anything else. And this outsourcing? In a closed space they can't watch who's talking to and who? Are we serious? Let's go down a little bit, let's see how the New Democracy works. That's why I told you, Mr. Pluri, that you're on a very good road to having political prisoners if you keep going. For the young man who was beaten unnecessarily in New Smyrna, you knew everything and your MPs had no paper. You knew where he was going, who he was hanging out with, what political beliefs he had, what breakfast he was eating, what dinner he was eating. You knew everything. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Madam President, as the Secretary-General had.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u60	You're welcome, Your Honour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u61	So what about the personal data of certain people and what about the surveillance of these people associated with organised crime? We should not normally speak, Minister, and ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. We should play the videos here from what you have said before and after the elections, for prisons and for civil safety. I'm going to read some of what was heard by Mr. Mitsotakis to figure out one end of what's going on in the country, and if anything else to do with your self-criticism. On 17-2-2017 he said: "The organized state has an obligation to guarantee the security, dignity and freedom of citizens. The new Government of New Democracy will not only restore economic normality, it will also restore the sense of security and confidence of Greek citizens." After the elections and in the programming statements: "Greeks and Greeks will feel safe again. Slowly, but firmly, the law and order are restored. We have solved the hands of the police." That was what the "pads" who play trade unionists. But, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you also have a great political responsibility in this respect, Mr Chrysochide and Mr Economou, because your course should be dictating to the ultimate state of Mitsotakis barriers to this catastrophe. Because I'm reading your interviews. He'd have to put a stop to this downhill. It is a fait accompli of this categorization. The final state of Mitsotakis, therefore, either from political feasibility or dogmatism, identified its crime and its fight against modern social issues and expressions. He put heavy crime in the same box, in the same tank of problems, with the demonstrations, refugees, immigrants and the occupations they made with the reactions of part of the new generation and the robbery. All together, squirt. And you're giving up on us now. It identified in its well-known communication campaign the incidents that took place decades on two roads in the University's anniversary and other days with the security of the citizen. And it faced the different conception of the entire progressive world, European culture and SYRIZA in these matters in the context of a gebelist propaganda and tactical which said that SYRIZA tolerates violations and even terrorism. What we've lived today. For God's sake! You also put special guards' associations - not to read it now, when the Levenders called it back - to swear the former Prime Minister, me and Yannis Ragosi for Kufontina. So this popular iso-democratic concept also has political destiny - and you are responsible for it - and a strategic plan. As Mr. Mitsotakis and New Democracy officials said, you did not want to defeat SYRIZA for what he did, but for what he believes. And that's the basis of the fascist perception and the policy you've been up against all this time. I will not go into the three and a half thousand recruits of special guards with the procedures we all know and we will show them to another parliamentary control. I will not go into the too many of the services you have done in the sense of repression. I will not go into subscribing the services and penitentiary and anti-crime services, how do you get people from the police departments from all over Greece to serve the units and services of repression. But when you get three and a half thousand special guards with these procedures outside the pan-Hellenic, outside the ADP, out of committees that have the presumption of independence instantly, when we still have the universities closed down and on the day that in twelve hours we have two murders and two attempts to kidnap minors, at the same time the Prime Minister himself comes out to the Ministerial Council and announces the terrible statement by the university police - which is not four hundred people, if you read it, plus six hundred, that is, a thousand - again with the same procedures and with amazing criteria! So the person who's going to serve the university police not to have a tattoo, is entitled to have a height of one metre and seventy centimeters, to have served in the special forces and special units of the army. Is that what we want for the university police? That's what you want, we don't want her at all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u62	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u63	No, no. For God's sake and for God's sake! Is it a prerequisite for you to do the university police to open up the Greek universities? Why don't you open them? Why are you afraid of youth? Why do you want to manipulate both youth and Greek society? And at the same time after you do this, you have let organized crime act undisturbed and in prisons and out of penitentiary stores. I will not talk about the murder of the journalist Karaivaz and all the ruptures, about any murder that crosses the country internationally. But I'll say one thing. The only thing you have as an account of two years is the fear and insecurity of the citizen for his own life, the exercise of his democratic rights, and it is also the complete breakthrough of our country every week in every incident of unprovoked police violence, in every rupture and in every murder. Minister, I know you'll talk. You made a very serious complaint in one of your interviews. I'm not going to talk about these communications that the end state of Mitsotakis uses, that he ordered you to catch the perpetrators quickly, the police to detect, cooperate with the various police departments between them and all the rest. But you gave an interview and spoke - and you will know something - about the risk of organised crime affecting the functioning of the institutions. What institutions? We are asking because, in my opinion, if we let such a peak occur at this level for the institutions of the country, that helps to cultivate the fear and insecurity of the citizen and the deterioration of our democracy. And when the Minister responsible says so, he must even name which institutions, who serve these institutions and where they are. They're in the political system, they're in the Greek Police, they're in justice, they're in the control mechanisms? Who are these institutions and who serve them? And I think you have the freeness to do it. Finally, I believe that the only organized one that has been in existence for so many months with the final state of Mitsotakis, all you have left standing up to be organized, is crime. And please overthrow this policy and this line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. You've already exhausted your tritology. Mr Ploris, MP from Athens, has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u65	I will try to respond to various chapters that have been put forward, starting with the sensitivity that most of you refer to here through SYRIZA, with regard to the second opportunity schools. When you say "second chance school", you will look from this side and look at Mrs. Marietta Giannaku in here. Because in 2005, with the government of Costas Karamanlis, Minister of Justice, Mr Papalegura and Minister of Education, Ms Giannaku became the two schools in the prisons of Korydalou, women and men, and since then the entire programme of the second opportunity began. Each side shows its sensitivity to these issues not by saying and speaking and raging, but by what it does at the moment of power, and then, in fact, we have demonstrated and laid the foundations for the second opportunity of prison. This, however, is quite a different thing from what Mr Xanthopoulou mentioned very well, but also Mr Lappas, in what he has to do with the Law of Friday and how he has been implemented or more generally for the term of dismissal. It can't be a serious talk at this time that, because there's a lot of people in prison, we'll dismantle prisons without conditions. What was it that made Paradise Law contrary to all other decongestion laws? That while all the previous ones had two criteria, a quantitative one - we did not go to prison sentences of more than ten years, namely heavy felonies - and a qualitative one - we automatically exempted a number of offences that we thought were of such a deceptive nature and had to go to the normal terms of dismissal - Mr. Paraparapopoulos and you, the SYRIZA government, Alexis Tsipras - were your choice - you said that, without any criterion, nor quantifiable nor qualitative, you would allow some to come out before prisons. That's not what it's called decongestion. And yes, we have to say it directly. If we have more people who for some reason shouldn't come out, because they don't qualify, the answer isn't that we're gonna get him out, just to say we're in the number we have to. The answer is, if necessary, they'll become more wings, if necessary, they'll become more guardians. It is right that there should be a condition of dismissal, but that the condition of dismissal be fulfilled. And as for what Mr Lappas said about the European Court of Human Rights, he is obviously not referring to disarmament reasons, he says that there should always be a possibility of reviewing the existing dismissal for all offences. That is what exists and, in my view, it should be tightened, because at the moment the only thing that is currently under control is whether and since the treatment of the prisoner is not such as to prevent him from coming out of prison. Other criteria should be in place, that is to say, to have a positive contribution, a positive conduct, the judiciary should have had a wider decision-making process. Because today we have an industrialized process, which, once a particular way has been completed, without any other criterion, the world is being released. Mr. Spirtzis referred to the subject of investigations into Greek prisons. Of course there are investigations. From the second half of 2019, when we took over the country's government until today, until March 2021, sixteen thousand checks have been carried out and, attributes, four pounds of hashish, six hundred grams of heroin, two hundred grams of cocaine. Obviously, I don't know whether it was, as the former Prime Minister's former Prime Minister's advisor, any left-wing people who wanted to try the consequences of heroin and cocaine. And at some point we'll say it straight away. It is not possible for a person who has an institutional position on television to go out and say "because I was left, I tried drugs safely". Let's say from this Stepma that there's no safe way to try drugs, and you don't have to youth listen to this man and say "I'll go and I'll try, to see the consequences." I was waiting for SYRIZA to get out and be placed. The former Prime Minister's former advisor turns and says he's had heroin and cocaine to try as a left. What are you doing there on the left? Can you text the world that he can test these substances to see if it has the consequences? I expected SYRIZA's announcement to condemn and say, "This is not the case. Do not try drugs at all.’ These, however, came out: eight hundred knives, five hundred lots, a thousand eight hundred cell phones. Sixteen thousand investigations were carried out, Mr. Spirtzi, in a year and a half. Let's see what investigations you've been doing in this space. (RG) You have raised a word of criticism in the penitentiary system, in the part of the supplies made in the middle of COVID and with a targeting on Mrs Nicholas's face. Apart from the fact that for all those who have been answered, it was with the three offers that the lowest offer has been selected, you do not go into the essence of things many times. In Nafplio, in prison, three thousand mice were found. There was a murder. These mice were there, they weren't suddenly found. What have you done all this time in terms of your sensitivity to the conditions of human detention? There have been homicides in all the penitentiaries in the country and there have been misinformation, all the procedures have been carried out to get material and prevent the COVID pandemic, and you have been consumed in a "frogation", - as we remember the satirical text of approximately hostages, it is a little later, but it refers to a criticism of Iliad and Odyssey - every day here questions. You filed press reports. Does it mean that your month's report is insane? Your monthly report will be judged. Go up here and say: we also filed reports. Write a series of awards made in a way that was the lowest bid, in the pandemic, so that there is the speed of organizing prisons quickly. And you're not saying that in these prisons, this world, the great, has endured so far and we're saying to bear the pandemic, that we've managed with the tests that are saying here that we've been able to control this whole situation, but also with the measures that have been taken. I come to this part - and I will be brief, Madam President, a little more time, I will need - for the special guards who have been said. The special guards first of all, for the universities, the main criterion is to have a university degree. What Mr Spirtzis said about the special guards - the first one was PASOK - is true of all the notices made and especially the last ones to come out of Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Economou, the university degree comes as a key element. The others are strong. And because you refer to crime: ladies and gentlemen, at this time you do not know what to support, you were the ones who said you did not want the special guards. And then you accused us of not recruiting the police. And you come and you say that the recruitments would be done through the pan-Hellenics. The pan-Hellenics mean that, at three and a half years, you'd have people on the road. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] A process chosen over time by different governments has been chosen, strong teams of Direct Action that are primarily the one that comes in contact with crime reductions, quantitative figures are much lower than your own governance, and especially in my region, which I know, in the center of Athens, is over 30% reductions in both the robbery and thefts. Obviously there is a qualitative upgrade of crime, at least in the last fifteen years, and we have seen a terrible violent crime, which, unfortunately, is also linked to the easy way people have been released and we are now catching it or with the lowest penalties that you have brought, which has again been an indirect release. Because someone who had a 20-year sentence and then went to court with the changes that were made came out faster, came out with the beneficial provisions that were in place, so, yes, there is a qualitative upgrade that we have to deal with, and that is what we are actually doing, with a plan to strengthen the Greek Police, and at the same time with a strong presence, with a better framework in the part of the sentences that we will have. But you can no longer insult the special guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u67	You're telling them untrained. They're the same, the ones we see out at DIAH are special guards. The ACTION is special guards. In New Smyrna, there was also a man who got caught and went to kill him, a special guard. The arrests they're making are from the special guards. Rente's were special guards. Thanks to these people on the road, we have succeeded in winning a very great victory against crime. Finally - and thank you very much, Madam President - you have tried to give your answers to the political prisoners. Only the names you mention here and the interest of the people you had at times, whether that is Kufontinas, before, now you do not have much choice after decisions such as Dimitris, you mentioned, self-determined, are what you say they define themselves as political prisoners. Let's get this over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u68	There are individual rights.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u69	Of course, but I'm saying it's randomly identified as political prisoners. In Greek prisons there are criminal prisoners. They've criminalized on the basis of the Criminal Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Comrade, please, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u71	Anyone who considers himself a political prisoner may consider him - whatever else he wants - but it is not possible for Members to imply that in Greek prisons those who are for political reasons are the ones who are. And those in particular, whose rights you often support, unfortunately, are the worst of the criminal prisoners there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. I would ask you to try to keep our time, because there are also time-consuming questions. He now has the floor, Mr Kamines, Member of the State of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Madam President. I have been tempted to address only one issue, just to highlight how important it is and to express the question, because there is an unacceptable inaction in this matter in the state. In 2020, thirty-five new judgments of the European Court of Human Rights were added to execution by the Greek State and the vast majority of these judgments concerned appeals by prisoners for detention in prison conditions. In the same year, in 2020, EUR 2.131000 was paid for compensation, while the corresponding amount for the year 2019 was to a lesser extent EUR 1,562,000. In total, the Greek state paid over the two years 3,700,000 euros. And the Deputy Minister comes here and talks to us about donations for Greek prisons with towels and sheets and dusters, while the state comes and spends these millions. The Legal Council notes that Greece has been convicted in recent years and pays these great sums, because no national legal remedy has been introduced which the detainees could exercise and thus avoid recourse to the European Court of Justice and payment of damages. This is an indifference of the government to memorialize. The Legal Council of the State has submitted a draft provision and explanatory statement. The members of the Special Standing Committee for the Monitoring of the Judgments of the European Court of Justice, our committee here in Parliament, has tabled a proposal for a law on this subject. The issue I personally raised in September 2020 in my question. I put it back in April 2021. Nothing. The country keeps paying. In France, where the country was convicted, in the next quarter the law was passed both by the National Assembly and by the Senate. The Commission's 30th annual report on torture has recently been published and concerns the previous government. It is about a little progress in the penitentiary system, but it highlights the chronic problems, overpopulation, and a constant lack of staff. It urges the Greek authorities to draw up a strategic plan for 2021 to 2025, following the previous one. This plan is awaiting it, because the commitments of the political leaders responsible for implementing the previous plan - so Mrs Nicholas had assured us at the first appearance before our committee on penitentiary - proved to be lame. What has happened with regard to the CPT recommendations from the European Commission against Torture? Overpopulation has made its reappearance since the end of 2018. Now in pandemic conditions of up to three prisoners live in cells of less than eight square meters, while making their reappearance and the beds in a three - story order in some prisons. It is a common assumption that overpopulation is not solved by building new prisons, it is said in the relevant Council of Europe White Paper and the Council of Europe, of course, focuses on alternative detention measures. That's another shock here, too. The Government almost just came to power in August 2019 has suspended the application of its social benefits institution. No measures have been taken to extend the application of the measure of electronic surveillance. You have improved the conditions for granting regular permits and the conditions for switching to a rural prison. The rural prisons are also devastated by the overcrowded closed prisons. You weakened the Central Scientific Council. You have not invested in the training of staff, in vocational training and in the education of detainees. Even the brief and simple commitments you made to the Commission against the tortures, even in these you are not talking about the issue of social reintegration. The infrastructure has been prepared for the relocation of the Korydallos complex. On 5 September 2019, I asked you a question on the construction of the new prison, referring to the question of assessing or amending it since 2001 for the spatial context of prisons, I asked for a copy of the study that was supposed to have been carried out. The study was never given to me or the other opposition MPs who asked for it. And the ready prison Nikiforos Dramas is still closed. For health: especially during the pandemic, since March 2020 we have stressed the need to take measures to protect detainees and officials. Then, in the outbreak of the pandemic, there were only seven permanent doctors in the country’s prisons. We had, at the time, stressed the need to dismantle with very specific criteria. We haven't heard. In March there were four hundred detainees with a coronary and a hundred forty employees, three deaths of prisoners and one employee and few vaccinations in Korydall. For security: in the last two years we have had suicides of employees and prisoners, the murder of prisoners, the deaths of prisoners. You have placed managers and architects with opaque criteria without the legal evaluation and crisis procedure. You have published press releases depleted in notices on invasions and surprise checks. I wonder, do you think these press releases which keep revealing that prisoners have knives, drugs and other things, somehow reward your policy at the penitentiary stores? You're almost two years of government! No checks are carried out by the Inspection and Control Body. One of the objectives you have set and your commitments to the Council of Europe are one to one. And we see lately, with the outbreak of organised crime, that our prisons are practically working as if they were prison schools. Just a few words and I shall end, Madam President, on the sad issue of municipal police officers. The local police from all the municipalities of the country were taken over to the Ministry of Civil Protection overnight. He made fun of me personally. Athens, with its problems, suddenly stayed without a municipal police officer and remained this way in two years. Police officers were supposed to be assigned with local police officers who would be trained to deal with the common crime as well. None of this happened. I had to go to the first Minister of Citizen Protection of SYRIZA, Giannis Panoussi, to explain the situation to him, to tell him that here we know that neither the Ministry wants them nor they want to stay at the Ministry. And so we managed to bring back to Athens just 1/3 of municipal police officers. To those who had gone to the penitentiary, their mothers went and weeped to the ministers and the whole thing was a fiasco with the issue of Municipal Police, which the capital paid for very expensively. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u74	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ms Konnaka, Member of the Lesvos Parliament, now has the floor from the JRC. Here, Ms. Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Madam President. Today's debate on the penitentiary system takes place at the expense of the fact that - in our opinion - a disorientated confrontation which has been opened up these days in the wake of the brutal criminal acts that have taken place in recent times. And we believe that this debate works disorientatedly mainly because it hides the social causes of the outbreak of crime in the whole debate to run out on the issues of tightening up or not of the penalties, but also on the way in which they are built, strengthening a repressive logic of justice as a whole, but also on this very penal law. Indeed, they have not been missing from the public debate and reactionary racist concepts which completely unscientificly render racial characteristics of crime. However, as much as you try to hide the true guilty person, there is, in fact, a greater demonstration of the deep sepsis emerging from the inner parts of the capitalist system, when the clearing of accounts linked to parasitic social phenomena becomes an element of everyday life, and when you still confess to their connection to various state institutions? The cynicism of the journalist's phrase - known as the government propaganda - which is a temptation in the world, because mafias know from a good sign, it also reveals the size of familiarity. At the same time, even the possibility of preventing and dealing with criminal offences is being undermined by the fact that these operational arms of police involved in the repression of the working people's movement - recently and by the creation of the University Police Departments - have, of course, been strengthened by the current government, but have also been maintained by the previous governments, while, on the contrary, its role in dealing with criminal acts of the common criminal law and those of organised crime is diminished. This repressive concept of the very operation of the penitentiary system was, of course, symbolically reflected in the Government's decision to transfer the power of penitentiary policy from the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Most of all, however, it finds practical expression in the very treatment of detainees, which leads to the deprivation of their individual rights, but also the prospect of their real reintegration into society, that is, not only reactive, but mainly deadlocked, because it eventually exacerbates and recycles the problem. This view was expressed by the recent changes in the Penitentiary Code by Law 4760/2020, which introduced horizontal restrictions on the exercise of the right to authorisation of detainees, an institution with undeniably beneficial effects for both detainees and the functioning of the penitentiary system, as well as the possibility of switching to rural prisons on the basis of criteria which conflict with any scientific evidence and which are, above all, the greatest acceptance of the failure of the penitentiary system, when it is linked to the gravity of the criminal act or horizontal restrictions that should be attributed to the individual judgment of the state of conduct of the prisoner in prison, that is to say, in which case the state must ensure that it is in prison and its proper reintegration into society. You are critical of the problematic measures of the horizontal decongestion of prisons, with which the JRC has disagreed with all the times that have come to Parliament, but you are not saying that these horizontal measures are also in line with the principle of limiting the individual rights of detainees. But how can this really be done at the end of the day, that is, the individual crisis based on the behaviour of the prisoner, when the chronic suffocating conditions of overpopulation of prisons do not even allow the decent living of the prisoners, how much more so to ensure that they have the necessary, even elementary, creative employment, education, vocational training, which is essential to enable us to actually speak about a hope of conscientious people "storage" eventually in prisons? How, in other words, does the prisons not become a'storeys' of souls at best, if not a 'incubators' of crime, when the great lack of scientific staff that is necessary, such as social workers, psychologists, teachers, and even personal security, is maintained at the moment when you are closing down to all reductions in prison safety as a medicine for all diseases, which the JRC has repeatedly reinstated with questions and interventions in the House, but which are still unanswered? How, in other words, does the prisons not become a'storey' when there are no permanent educational, cultural and sporting activities in prisons, and when not only are there no incentive to start or continue students of prisoners at all levels of education, but are those who are finally being treated and punished by those who claim to ensure their access to education? The conditions of the pandemic have shown that in particular, in conditions of intense confrontation, the protection of the health of the detainees and of workers in them cannot be carried out without the permanent specialist medical staff who are able to take immediate care of the detainees who, of course, need help. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, it cannot be left to the various voluntary donations - a merciful sponsorship of the shipowners who have been analysed by the Minister for an hour - and to bedcloths and others. How, then, could the health of detainees be fundamentally guaranteed when today in the thirty-four detention stores throughout the country they are working only sixty-seven permanent nurses and seven permanent doctors? And, of course, even the necessary construction and maintenance of new modern prison buildings is done "closing the eye" in business interests in a logic of privatisation through PPPs, which, of course, is not the only sensitive public sector in which such forms are exploited. However, in the face of all this, SYRIZA's interest was also expressed today as a new discovery of explosive subscribing and defects, especially with regard to qualified scientific staff. It is no coincidence, moreover, that both SYRIZA and the Change Movement proclaim, in a allegedly intersection for the penitentiary system, the institution of socially beneficial work, when before today's suspension was essentially problematic, and it is more likely that it will eventually be used not to contribute to the education and reintegration of the detainees, but to fill gaps, mainly in local government, with free and unqualified labour force. However, it is mainly because, over time, the anti-crime policy of the bourgeois governments, both the New Democracy and the SYRIZA and the PASOK, is deliberately confined to the intensity of repression and criminal treatment, depriving the non-violent unity to be observed in the three-fold prevention - penalisation and reintegration, as the JRC constantly points out. When you leave them to the mercy of unemployment of the same or more acute social problems, how will reintegration eventually work and how will they not return to crime? Of course, you are also undermining what would be the real issue, the deterrence of crime, when it is deliberately overshadowing its real causes, the social causes created by class exploitation society, which not only are you facing, but are further exacerbated by your overall anti-grass policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u76	Thank you. He now has the floor, Mr. Vassiliourdos, Member of the State of the Hellenic Solution. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Madam President. However, the one who publicly stated that he tried drugs, cocaine heroin, or whatever else he was accused of, by the colleague of the New Democracy, Mr. Plearis, his government with the Minister of Development called for "apologies". Let us not forget this nor the resolution of the hemp bill by New Democracy alone, and we hope that this colleague, Mr Thucydides, will not invoke the unjustified justification. Now, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by saying that the sector does not open up in my own cognitive field. Unfortunately, however, my colleague, Mr Mylonis, is missing on a tour of this subject, so I will be content with just a few points. Before all, we were impressed by SYRIZA's charges. On the basis of the fact that - as we will be tabling in the Minutes - the Council of Europe Commission which visited prisons and police departments in Greece from 28 March to 9 April 2019, pointed out that the reform of the penitentiary system should be an urgent priority for Greece, and the relevant report states that although the Ministry of Justice has taken steps in relation to its previous visit in 2015, the Greek penitentiary system remains in a bad state, while the measures taken to deal with the prison crisis were inadequate, so the Greek state should take a more decisive action. The problems recorded by the European Commission included the mistreatment of detainees who remain frequent throughout Greece, as well as the ineffective system of investigation of abuse complaints, in addition to the overpopulation in the Korydalou and Thessaloniki prisons, since both operate at more than 140% of their capacity, the use of dirty bedsides and the existence of mold cells in most of the wings of the men's Korydalos prisons, as well as in the prisons of Nigrita. Furthermore, the conditions of detention in most police stations visited were inappropriate, while more and more high levels of violence among detainees were found. In all the prisons they went, they heard complaints of gang threats to staff members, while the sense of lawlessness with many prisoners was diffused to possess improvised knives for self-protecting, because prison personnel could not protect them. In addition, there have been reports of chronic lack of staff, as well as concerns about serious deficiencies in healthcare services. At that time, of course, SYRIZA ruled, so we don't understand the meaning of his charges against the New Democracy, despite the fact that they are right, in the sense that SYRIZA did the same. The same committee, however, in March 2011, made a public statement on the state of the detention shops in Greece, noting that there has been a steady deterioration in the conditions of living and treatment of the detainees over the last decade, as we will also present in the Minutes, along with a serious 11-page analysis on the subject. In conclusion, as in many other cases, from economy to foreign policy, Greece is constantly walking from evil to worse, with the responsibility of all three Memorandum governments that are actually running informally, as we have recently established. In fact, they agree on all the main themes, from the memorials and mortgages of Greece for nine nine years until the scorpion, cannabis and the Greek one. So these kinds of conflicts are just a theater for people's eyes. Continuing, something similar to the penitentiary system also happens with crime, since as early as 2018 it has been denounced that 69% of citizens lived in fear of crime, as we will also testify in the Minutes, which has deteriorated today obviously because the present government is not doing its job properly. As far as New Democracy is concerned, as far as we know, Law 4760/2020 has in fact changed nothing, and we have said many times that it is not enough for a government to legislate, since the law is the most important one. In particular, with regard to the very serious issue of small and medium-sized enterprises raised during the debate on the draft law with the intervention of the ESDC on the penitentiary system, which we will be tabling in the Minutes, there seems to be no significant change. Recalling that there are not even the necessary means of transferring these people and helping them, even by their fellow believers. With regard to direct awards by the Secretariat-General, my colleague mentioned during the debate of the bill, among other things, the example of imprisonment by a company that included them in its statute one day after the contract by collecting on 19 March 2020 the sum of EUR 145,161 euros, on 23 March 2020 with a new EUR 118,500 contract and on 23 April for the third time EUR 145,000. All this plus VAT, almost half a million, i.e. within just one month. Isn't it too much for the government to invoke pandemic? In conclusion, we hope that the construction of PPPs mentioned in the question does not apply, knowing very well that the PPPs have profitability clauses for private individuals too high that ultimately cost the taxpayer much more expensive. We hope that the privatization of prisons will not be the case, bearing in mind the sad example of the United States, where in various ways prisoners are attempted to keep prisoners as much as possible in prison for private individuals to earn the money that the state provides to them per prisoner. Something like that happens to the nursing homes. In any case, the implementation of the new bankruptcy law - an abortion, the auctions, the criminal policies of the tax collectors, unemployment and all other things will intensify the problem of the imminent penitentiary system of our country, in addition to illegal immigration, on the basis of what is happening in other countries, with worse Sweden, a state that, from the safest to Europe, is today the second most dangerous after Croatia, as we will testify in the Minutes. We hope this will not happen in Greece, but we are very afraid of it. Finally, we have a question to the Minister: what exactly does his visit to the prosecutor mean and the delivery of the file, which, among other things, contained many cases of criminals who, instead of being in prison, move freely, for example for health reasons? Does it mean that organised crime has now exceeded its limits and found ways to exert a serious influence on the institutions of the state? Which institutions? Shouldn't he reveal them to us? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u78	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ms. Apatzidis, Member of the Eastern Attica Region of Mera25. (BS)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Madam President. The policy pursued by the current government in the penitentiary system can only be seen in the light of its general perception of all matters. Why not make a mistake about the question of the penitentiary of anti-crime policy and justice are deeply social issues and should be dealt with as such. Instead, what do we see? We see the same repressive, vengeful logic that neoliberals, who ostracize any sociological analysis and blows individualism and revenge while speaking of possible gains for PPP prisons. In the cosmopolitan of New Democracy, penitentiary and penitentiary are losing their meaning. Instead of a step of justice and resocialization, they become a vehicle of vengeance and a definitive collapse of the convicted. You do not want reintegration, Minister. You want to keep them on the margin forever. The New Democracy is obsessed with penitentiary as a matter of public security alone. With the government's usual practice of speculation and enrichment, of course. The first act of the government was the transfer of powers for the penitentiary system and the operation of prisons by the Ministry of Justice to that of Civil Protection. Also, the appointment of the Secretary-General for Crime Policy, Mrs Nicholas, is undocumented. Symbolically and essentially the role of the penitentiary is transferred from the efforts to co-ordinate and resocialise offenders, as well as from that of justice, to a punishing vengeance mechanism for example. In this role, of course, we must admit that the government failed and fails to do so every day. The role of society and the penitentiary system must be to re-socialise offenders and not to punish them in itself and to exclude them from society. In the context of the penitentiary we have seen from you only to stumble and deprivate rights to prisoners. It is about access to studies, licenses, health rights. And why not in life itself? What is the truth about the prisoners during the pandemic period? How did the penitentiary system work out of you at this time? No real provision for all those who are disgraceful to you and are unworthy of every welfare and every right that all modern states finally provide. You have certainly not shown the same frustration, denial and ideological blindness in the intention of speculation. They gave and received direct assignments throughout the pandemic from the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy, the same secretariat that if it does not deal with depriving the detainees of rights and violating the laws, it deals with sharing public money as if it were its own. It would be really nice to be able to discuss methods and ways of having true penitentiary in the country. We call for a policy that responds effectively to all three levels and to prevention and repression and reintegration. Because it is a successful criminal policy that prevents any criminal offender from committing criminal offences. And when we say that it does not leave us in no way talking about repression and the fear of punishment through the application of formal social control. Another issue is prevention. Another issue is repression, and another is reintegration. However, it seems to you that only repression can have the desired results, and that is why we see in your policy a conception of sheriffs, as if we were in the wild west. Can't you see that this concept does not lead anywhere? As much as you declare the doctrine "law and order" reality keeps denying you. It disproves you because you have neither an anti-crime policy nor a penitentiary. You don't care or have, after all. That's the thing, and that's the bad thing. In conclusion, I should like to point out this. It is not enough to whine about the bad texts and to reproach others in particular when they have gone through the positions of responsibility and the governance of the country. It is not enough that no one has done the worst of what they have found to have the right to be the honorer. You're all responsible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, my colleague. The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Members questioned very thoroughly, some of whom were not answered by Mr Economou at all and some were obviously answered on the basis of an insistence on the government's policy followed. Of these, Mr Kamines has done an excellent - because of his experience, not only as mayor, but also as citizen's lawyer - a reduction in European data and issues relating to the Convention on Human Rights. Other party representatives have also raised matters in a very good way. I cannot include Mr Ploris among them, not in the sense of completeness of his opinion, but of absolute obsession and perseverance on the line and in the view that you, as government, have on this matter. I shall start with two points which we have to clarify in today's debate and which do not fit into any different interpretation. They are issues that we all have experience and should not stay dark, because I have heard you say for the second time about lower crime in 2019 and 2020 in relation to the past, low crime. And the day before yesterday, you read us a list of thefts, etc. We would very much welcome this development. - I'm not talking about big organized crime - if we didn't all know that we're in the pandemic where the world was at his house. Excuse me! And fewer accidents occurred on the streets because of the pandemic's restrictive measures. So not to mention elements, I repeat, which do not give a quality in this debate. I think that should be absolutely cleared up. Secondly, it was not entirely clear, even by Mr Kamine who had the experience, but it was not his role to make it clear, the issue of municipal police and the staffing of penitentiary stores. According to Mr Economou - and I do not question it - there has been this leak and the gaps have remained and this has been blamed on the SYRIZA Government. Who doesn't remember in this Chamber that people were fired? I then, in the first half of the year, was the Minister of Home Affairs and Citizens' Protection, with the initiative of being four Ministries in a shell, with the Deputy Minister, Mr Panoussis, who, of course, had the first responsibility, but I know them well. You're talking about fired. Mr. Mitsotakis then with the government of Samara - Venizelos, among the lists he gave with teachers, cleaners, had given the whole of the Municipal Police. I don't remember how many they were. Possibly, two thousand. These fired in the first half of the year, in total - and you know that - we brought them back to their service. It was not possible to return to their service as municipal policemen, the ladies and gentlemen who were fired. Because there was 60% reduction in the CAP, it was not possible for the municipalities to cope with it. There's a question about who they want and who don't want to raise the City Police. And in this way - from there on - Mr Kamine correctly raises the issues - the solution to their survival has been found to go to the Ministry of Civil Protection. They obviously did not have the education, but some were integrated there and for others a mobilization of memorial mediators to the penitentiary system that had the greatest needs and was considered a relative, a neighbouring area that could work. Not to insist more, Mr. Kamine said so. So, to God, will SYRIZA come out, the SYRIZA government with broken sides and on this matter? You fired them from being there at all. The Municipal Police were not there and then, nor were you reinstated in the large gaps in the organic positions that existed in the penitentiary. So don't use any arguments we were here, here's the Greek society, here are the people who are listening to us now, the local police officers. They're familiar. Find other arguments, find other weapons, possibly have, to turn us into criticism of the strictness that is being exercised. I come to the essence of your policy on which we have spoken at times and in the individual bills, which have come here. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have a clear policy in which some ministers in the debates that we have done here quite clearly are mentioned. Mr. Tindemans, however, clearly referred to this. Decongestion no, new prisons for those extra prisoners emerge in this social group that is demographically reduced. That's your policy. It is against all the policies of the New Democracy, PASOK, very much before SYRIZA. It's not an invention of SYRIZA and Friday's view of decongestion. See the order of the legislations of the last thirty years, of the successive legislation, see what has been said before, and of the Member of Mera25 and of Mr Kamine how European law and the European legal order are pushing towards decongestion, of course, through clauses, through provisions, through provisions for reintegration. You, on the contrary, move across the acquis of post-multipleism and in this area. One side is the one you have firmly. The second side, which you have firmly, we have said so many times, is the policy of 'Exarches everywhere', in the end, will become a joke. While we were government, Mr Mitsotakis who had asked five times, if I am not mistaken, to ask the Prime Minister three times was on the same subject and a debate was repeated here on how Exarches and occupations are the blow, they are the reproach, the non-democratic function, it must be cleared up about it. Evidently a big political communication game has been played. It's not your policy, it's come from outside. Julian, do you know the policy of broken glass? This was called the policy of Julian, the mayor of New York. What did they mean there? It is similar, as we are saying here that you mean that it is a cigarette way from falling a stone in a demonstration - criticising obviously - to terrorism that this is going easy and therefore facing it in the future, and those who are going to evolve completely wrongly and have not already been confirmed. So Julian, who was the protagonist of these ideas, that's why they said it was the policy of broken jams, it was whether they broke anything black or Puerto Ricans and others in New York, a glass in a protest, non-demonstration or in order to find their press or anything that was a presumption that was going to the extreme felony. From there came the strategy of law and order and no tolerance, the strategy of tolerance came out of there. All this strategy - I see you in the eyes - collapsed in New York, America, all over the world. That was twenty years ago. It's for manuals. They have nothing to do with reality. And you need to know that because you're old at the Citizen's Department. That's the second one. Your third obsession, which demonstrates exactly the way in which people are involved, is that you only accept, in theory, that the prisoners there are detained after judicial decisions, from which freedom is removed and not the other rights, but that you consider them to be subordinate citizens and that you do not take the necessary measures, that you completely undermine the reintegration measures. And I come to a key question, which concerns you two and personally, and I mean on the basis of your government position. How have you accepted this - let me - a political patent and through a judiciary progressive in Greece - I have said so many times - and through a penitentiary code, which is also in the right direction and which has even come out of unanimous decisions? How did you accept to take this role, or to become a ministry within your ministry? Because that is what it is, with a hundred and fifty organic positions. And you manage issues which - let me tell you - are completely irrelevant, not as scientists. And Mr. Chiaras is a doctor, who is the Minister of Justice and would have the penitentiary. That's not what I mean. You are completely irrelevant to the concept of your service structure, the direction of policing, repression. There's a direction for your ministry. How can you in the context of this perception answer here? And it is no coincidence that you have not even responded to the writtens that Mr. Economou read for hours, the needs of additional doctors, additional social workers, additional rehab centres, additional training units, additional measures for reintegration. That should be the core... [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] Allow me two more three minutes. That should be the core of your answer. You could both be at the Ministry of Justice, Minister and Deputy. That's why I'm telling you it's not a profession thing you're doing. The Ministry of Citizen Protection cannot - or whatever else on the substance, say, go through the conscience of the world - do this policy. It can't be done. You've been closing for two years, value it. Say it to the Prime Minister, as you said very quickly about the immigration policy that had brought you and became a special structure. Because the Ministry of Justice has other balances. Mr. Floris knows this perfectly. It has another culture to address these issues, another political dimension to the issues that need to be addressed. You're always bringing bills that you're going through. They're going through them, like cutting permits, cutting agricultural prisons, undermining reintegration. And all this for what? For a tightening. Good! And I'm coming to the end. We're going to organized crime, what's going on out there. Others say it started in 2017. It started a long time ago with the multiple murders. I will never say 'cleaning accounts'. It is a reactionary mentality and terminology. We're talking about people, about victims, about victims, about other people who may be present, or who are present at any time taking flesh and bones this bloody cycle and having victims. This isn't about it. The clearing of accounts, written by various journalists, willing to produce an ideology on these issues, do you know where it ends? In "Leave them, they will sometime end" and it's wrong, Mr. Ploris, and you know it. They'll be over sometime. How many are there? Forty, fifty somewhere in the country? They'll eat them, we're done. How do we educate public opinion that feels about the insecurity to which Mr Spirtz and other colleagues have referred? It is a cycle of blood for great interests, for nights, for truffling, for huge amounts, for clubs, for oil, for a series of great profitable situations, and it is obviously a multiplier - I say it from a step in this House - and a long process. Let me look you in the eye, Mr Economou and Mr Chrysochoidis. And you're not for twenty years, operational or political, inside the police in key roles. I do not insinuate - I would never do it from a step in the House - that you know both the faces and things of this blood cycle. I mean, however, clearly, that you are fully aware of the scope, the links, the risk, the depth, the impact, the influence and the influence on the institutions, as you said, Mr Chrysochide. Because I sign this with Mr Spirtzi, who said that he is the 'ball' to say how they affect you. It's not a simple clear-up between faces and microgroups. They are obviously related with great or very great interests and with branchings that are hurting, undermining, poisoning and creating a climate of destabilization throughout Greece and democracy. I call it a step of the House. I'm looking into your eyes. You know how deep this case is. You also know that Mr. Tsipras as a former Prime Minister when he had taken the famous EPA investigation that was evolving - they collected data from '16, '17, '18, I don't know exactly - he ordered at the same time all to go to the prosecutor and mobilize all the services so that the abscesses could be dealt with. It's been four years. At least four of them are victims of leakages in the press that they were in the context of this investigation. What are you doing? What are we doing? What's the political system doing? These questions are crucial. I tell you politically, I tell you politically to the government, you understand that. But you are the right people in the sense that I have told you, because you have been present in these things for more than twenty years in all the developments in the security of the country, in order to be able on your part - because it is justice - to mobilise these forces to deal with these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Now the Minister has the floor. How long will it take, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u83	I guess 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u84	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that a very substantial debate was held today on the penitentiary system in the country on the occasion of the question by the SYRIZA Members. After the presentation of our penitentiary policy by Mr. Economou, but at the same time, looking at the reality of the Greek prisons today in relation to yesterday, the difference is so great that one can actually draw very important conclusions how a policy, a work that is done every day and is built on the security of prisons, the rights of prisoners, the safety and working conditions of workers. I would like to say to the opposition about all that I have heard, in particular on the issue of accession, that you must have prisons to do so. If you have a crime director, you're not joining. We have lived in previous years with homicide, with prisons that did not work as penitentiary stores, such as Korydal. Let us all appreciate these steps that have been taken together, without ignoring a number of problems that identify and international organisations in terms of conditions, infrastructure and so on. However, apart from the reference to penitentiary institutions and penitentiary policy, they have heard in here and in general terms the issues of security, anti-criminal policy, day-to-day issues and I think it was a good thing that they were heard. I would like to sincerely thank the Vice-Presidents who have put these issues on the basis of today's question. I believe that this debate on security, civil protection, without asterisks, as was the case in previous years, is a step forward for democracy. Two-three years ago this was not a common place. It is a real conquest of democracy that Parliament feels in the recognition of security as a universal right, as a basic condition, as a good that the organised state is obliged to ensure for its citizens. So he is concerned about some of the rise in crime in this Chamber. Also, there's a confusion, I'd say. The increased sense of insecurity recorded in the polls with this alleged rise in crime is directly linked. Furthermore, there is a misunderstanding that the government failed because it invests - we have heard it from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman - in the fight against social struggles and repression instead of dealing with crime. So let's take them one by one. Increasing crime does not exist. I'll say it again. Increasing crime does not exist. I have heard Mr Voutsi saying about COVID - and it is right - but despite COVID we also have very reduced evidence of crime in homicide, the robbery, theft and the most important offences this year. I'm filing the evidence to the House for your information. [[At this point, the Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Michael Chrysochoidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Criminality is, of course, homicide, house robbery, vehicle, burglary, drug trafficking. In all of this in the five months of 2021 compared to 2020, there is a 10% reduction to 40%, respectively, in Athens and the territory. But what was there, and it sparked fear and anxiety? There was barbarity in the Sweet Waters and the blood cycle of the bells. The Sweet Waters became something rare, almost unheard of of our customs. That's why it's shocking, that's why it's shocking. They strangled a mother in front of her baby. It makes us angry, it costs us, it exceeds us, but it's unique. No matter how scared she is, no matter how worried she is, she's unique. Of course, their perpetrators are investigating them, looking for them and looking for them through the investigation, the police, by systemic means, stubbornly. But that's not what we're talking about right now. Therefore, crime in Sweet Waters while it is a source of anxiety and insecurity, is not automatically translated into an increase in crime. Bravo magazines solve their accounts in 2007, in 2012, in 2017, in 2018, in 2021. I would remind you that in 2018 we had seven cross-exections of braces. And I don't call it fatalistic or a spectator. We must stop this escalation that is dangerous and worrying. I'll come back to this. Well, it's a clean-up, though. It is not a general phenomenon concerning the life or property of the citizen. Conclusion with the Sweet Waters and the bells, crime does not go up. Censorship is rising, people's concern, the feeling of insecurity. I don't underestimate it at all, barely the other way around. But another forensic and other crime. The polls record this feeling of concern accurately. You invoke it, too, I accept it. Although SYRIZA is questioning other polls and making suggestions - representations to the Committee on Institutions and Transparency. Therefore, this claim does not show. There's a confusion between criminal and crime. And as I have shown you, crime is falling, it's not growing. While forensic violence is growing precisely because of these special events. Let's go to another issue, I heard it before. There is a great deal of attention from the police and the government to social meetings and marches, and at the same time we are very concerned about the protection teams of university institutions with those who are to be recruited and because of this there is neglect of the neighbourhoods, towns and crime. First of all, I would like to say to you for correction to what has been heard that this time those who will be recruited as special guards for the university police will be graduates. I think they're going to be graduates over 80%. For the first time it is taken as a criterion, i.e. by moleculation, the possession of a degree. Secondly, I fear that with great interest some are caught in a slogan of amphitheatre. And I'll give you some evidence to judge. Because some time ago you accused the junta government of banning concentrations, to tell you that every month there are seven hundred concentrations, twenty-three per day actually. I would therefore like to give you information that you will also be able to draw the correct political conclusions here and therefore the operational conclusions. At the hundred - hour police workers in a typical month with seven hundred meetings per month, the 4,6 - hour workers spend at the meetings. The 67.4 working hours are devoted to policing and crime, while the remaining in command, targeting, etc. I repeat that 67.4 working hours are for patrols all day, for obvious policing in neighborhoods, for pursuits and arrests of criminals and 4.6 hours to safeguard the right to protest at seven hundred meetings a month, more than twenty three meetings a day, as I told you. It is therefore inconsistent that this political connection cannot be established. It's being shot down by the reality of the police work. Incidentally, I would like to tell you for reasons of transparency that the data on the police work are published every week in detail and it will be good to study them before you reach conclusions. So I sum up, ladies and gentlemen. Crime is reduced from 10% to 40% per case. It only increases in counterfeits, counterfeits, house fraud due to pandemic. The police are dealing with 70% of their time and powers with crime, not with universities and meetings. Censorship has increased for certain reasons in time. So if we want a serious debate on safety and protection, that is the situation, that is the basis for discussion. And we have very serious issues to solve, and I now come to them. The most dangerous is organised crime. They're not five gangs of bogies that kill each other periodically. Slowly, this crime charge gets organizational features with hierarchy, planning and money. And in some areas it is becoming international, which is a aggressive increase in the risks. It's an international problem. It concerns the UN, it is systematically dealing with the European Union, it is more systematically dealing with the European Commission and Europol is dealing with it more specifically. Don't do it, then, that you don't understand what I mean about institutions, what risks there are, as if you were some who came from the moon, you showed up here. You've been ruling for five years. Almost five years you've ruled. I do not know what you have done all these years on this matter. I haven't seen you do anything like you did nothing about the police. You didn't buy a single car. You didn't buy a bulletproof vest and there were ten thousand bulletproof vests gone. Much has not been done and we are now being called upon to reconstruct and do so. So don't pretend to be strangers. Please very much. It is therefore an international problem. And in order not to go exactly to affect these institutions, we must now take action. That's why I went to the Ice Bay Attorney with evidence of crime evolution and structure. It needs coordination of the services. It takes horizontal co-operation in the state to stop this phenomenon. The police have already reorganized their own plans. We do not look at murders as spectators, nor do we as analysts see the periodicity of the phenomenon. We are very concerned that we want coordination, but, at the same time, we are reconstructing the powers and have already started to act with many research, with arrests and provocations at all points that seem to be taking place. A lot of words are superstitious. We will soon be judged on the results. The pandemic reversed society and forced the police to police the civilians. We had to do it with damage and effort. Getting out of this nightmare, we will have new phenomena to deal with, a new reality, new forms of crime and, above all, a outbreak in digital formats. Already for this purpose from the beginning of May and until the end of June in Athens, all operational police units are trained and prepared. Over seven thousand uniforms are trained in a number of such issues as the education of new crimes, for which we need to prepare ourselves. We predict, we have a plan, and we move on. The evidence confirms us, but there is no easy task. We're not standing on hits. As soon as normality comes back, the more we have new challenges, we will have increased people's demands and justified objections to each trespass. For the Government, the security of citizens is not an election record nor an opportunityal demagogy. It is a fundamental right for citizens and without that normal life there is no. Ladies and gentlemen, for more than six times today, if I remember well, our opposition has called us here in the House for police occupation, arbitraryness, a restriction on constitutional rights, excessive violence, abolition of university freedoms. Every time all these claims... [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance. Please warmly. Every time the claims practically collapsed, slogans of other times or idle generalisations of individual incidents proved to be dead. I do not go any further, because I would like to welcome again the fact that in the two years of governance it is the first debate that we are having here essential for crime, even on the occasion of a question concerning the penitentiary system. Finally, you recognize that the people who are concerned about their safety are, as some people have said, 'Masters-Patellis', i.e. the tinys, the conservatives, such as heartless and inappropriately characterized by some aspects in here. Ladies and gentlemen, you have indeed taken a step forward today, but again two steps back with your intervention. It doesn't make any sense and doesn't make much difference with what you say and what we hear. A few months ago you protested here in the neighborhoods of Athens with a banner "Outside cops from the neighborhoods". What exactly are you talking about? "Outside thieves from the neighborhoods"? Decide and tell us. You're asking us to dismantle ACTION, a police service, that is. You have even promised to dismantle it when you return to governance. That's great! So go to the forensic districts of Athens, Attica, say the things you say here to the citizens, who daily see ACTION patrolling and many times persecuting and arresting criminals. I come back to the neighborhoods with five-month comparisons. In the five-month period 2020 to 2021 in the robbery reduction of 35%, in theft of a 21% reduction, in theft of vehicles a 10% reduction. And to note, note, the 2020 figures were, as the President quite rightly said, reduced, due to a universal lockdown in April and May. For the same time, in Exarcheia, which we all know what it was and how it is today, a peaceful neighborhood that enjoys the children of the local residents, Saint Panteleimon, Kolonos, Kypsel, Omonia, Patisia, Syntagma, Acropolis: a reduction in thefts of 37% and the robbery 17%. I'm not going to go on. All this information I will submit to the House further. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the world hurt him. We understand the safety that has faded into the pandemic, we respect the deafness and fears that are born into the human soul. Yes, we respect them and make policies on these people’s feelings and their real needs. We're working to ease the fears and heal slowly the pandemic wounds and give birth to hope. Well, career in fears and culture in insecurity, we don't. And to finish, truly, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are you still proud of the law on Friday? I am dealing with a case this morning, and I want to tell you, it is very indicative. There is an Albanian evildoer and 'Albanese' I do not say it in the racist sense, I say its ethnic origin and anything else, to identify what I am talking about. There is therefore a criminal who in 2015 was imprisoned with something less than fifteen years in prison. This villain came out of prison, entered February 2015 and came out of prison August 12, 2019, that is, four days after the elections with the beneficial provisions of Friday. On August 5th, 20 days later, he's been robbing with attempted murder. In February 2020, this person is being persecuted by the police with another gang of his own and shot to kill police officers. He's wanted at the moment for attempted murder by robbery. Do you know how many such cases they are? Only at the HAGI Directorate here in Attica and only at theft and burglary department, which concerns thieves and burglars, is a hundred and seventeen cases over the last two years - I mean until the Law of Friday - and all these are outside. And all of these repeat the brutal crimes against Greek society and against the citizens. At some point, I think, if you are in pain with the'recycling' of crime, if you are interested in the fight for crime, if you agree that we need vigilance for organised crime, we are here. I'm here, the government is here, there's room for consultation. The rest of us are feathers, unforgivable superficialities and zero social sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u86	Thank you, too, Minister. (AS)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u87	Madam President, I am speaking for a second. I won't bother you for long, but because you're in Step, Mr. Chrysochide. I will not go into what you said, that nothing was done about these issues that we have been dealing with for so many years - I am talking about organised crime - because from a step forward I said that in 2016 and 2017 the Prime Minister himself said to move forward and proceeded with the enormous research of the PPE that catches everything, regardless of whether it has yet to come to an end. So, don't think... but let that go is in the context of controversy. I would just like to ask you one question: at the same time as you are told - and the evidence and unions of the police have mentioned them - that they are completely subordinated to the police department of the neighborhoods - they have between 45% and 70% completeness in the organic positions and cannot do their job - you really claim that a thousand police officers should be hired for HR? Not for S.H.I.E.L.D. as a whole. Be careful, has the Minister of Education explained here that the government's decision is for three HCGS: EACH, Panteion, I think, and HCGS. For three HRs, will a thousand be hired to do what in these HRs, at the same time that police stations are licensed in the neighborhood? It's really a surprise. And it's certain you've done an operational investigation. You didn't take the number off. I wanted to ask you directly and publicly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u88	Absolutely, you'll get the answer. First of all, with regard to the police departments you mentioned and the shortcomings, I would like to tell you this. For the Athens Central Sector - there is the mayor - that is, Kolonos, Kipseli, Agios Panteleimon, the whole historical center, since the day we took over we added four hundred pedestrian patrols and scooter patrols, we have added to every square of uniforms and armed forces, which are 24-hour-old, we have cleared the most streets of the historic center of Athens and the neighborhoods of the drugs, and now the people left there, these unfortunate people for whom they cannot do anything police. So, in what you are calling for - and I also invoke the information I have given you before, and the evidence is indisputable and publicly available - a great deal of work has been done. The strength of DIA patrols has also doubled, and for the first time people in these areas have seen police and feel safe. However, I will reply to what you have asked for. Two universities, two large university spaces, which have campus, will be covered at the moment. And in campus, Mr Voutsi, drugs are being handled, theft is being stolen, there are many times violence, there are phenomena, that is, the ordinary criminal law. It's not just about college. There is the dormant here at the University of Athens, which has been made many businesses in recent months with drugs, thefts and a number of others. So there is a need, since there is no legality in these large areas of the university police and the need for the law to be present. Because democracy also exists in universities, it does not come out of the universities. In other words, democracy works there too, the rule of law works there too, and the institutions are there too. And this role comes to play and serve the university police. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr Spirtzi, I think I will give you the floor as soon as you have - which you do not have - a second, but I will give you the floor for two minutes. Mr Xanthopoulou has the floor for five minutes, because we have to start discussing topical questions and we have already delayed the process. (Parliament
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u90	Yes, I will speak strictly for five minutes because you are absolutely right, Madam President. I firmly believe that there has been a very substantial debate both with the answers and with the omissions of the answers we can all reach, and above all with the Greek people in certain safe conclusions. Firstly, it is indicative that Mr Economou, who lifted the main burden of the answer, responded to about half the time of his very extensive speech about the need to create new penitentiary stores, new detention stores. One question: Has the Spatial Planning and Sustainable Development Special Framework been reformed? If it is not reformed and if you do not reform it, all you say is statements and only statements. If we do not have an institutional and in-depth preparation, we cannot place new detention shops, although this is your openness and you always say it to all tons. Secondly, I have features that in Mr Economou's reply, but also Mr Chrysochoidis, they did not mention the famous assignments of Mrs Nikolaos and that helps to draw our conclusions. Thirdly, you return to the story of Law4322 that has been passed on to the cathode as the Law of Friday. First of all, we must say that decongestive new provisions have all the legal systems and here in Greece we had before the government of SYRIZA before. What's the difference? Until then, they were dealing with the law in cases of low infraction, and it is well known that more than 85% of people in prison are for felony acts and therefore incomplete. First of all, let us say that the current dismissal made by my colleague Mr Ploris is two conditions, the minimum time and the good conduct. It is not an automated procedure, that is. Mid-judgment. Secondly, L.4322 of the Paradise laid down proportionality criteria, laid down criteria for essential judgments, the conduct of the prisoner and mediated a court ruling, i.e. a court meeting and said, "Xanthopoulou is being released. Anthopoulos is not released.’ It is not an automated process, as you want to present it. And of course, he wasn't expanding to the isovites. I mean, in the very least time that I have left, for the part of the apparent privatization of the penitentiary system, which is the hard core of the state. The deliberate atrophy of the social state corresponds to the superintendent of the criminal state. So in the United States, which started this institution, the country's penitentiary credits are increasing by 95% at the same time as the health budget remains stable, the education budget is falling by 2% and the social protection budget is falling by 41%. The massification of prison incarcerations helps to develop the private incarceration industry. In the United States at the end of the 20th century, seventeen private companies manage about a hundred forty booking shops with the tsir estimated at about 4 billion. There are studies in ten Western countries that have demonstrated the close and positive relationship between labour market degradation and increasing the number of prisoners, while on the contrary there is no evidence of any link between crime rates and prison rates. Finally, Madam President, as a member of the Dramas I would like to ask a straight question. For I was not satisfied, Mr Economou, with the general wording of the Nicoforos detention notice. When do you estimate that there will be a two-and-a-half? Fifty-five special positions have indeed been made, we agree. They are escalating about the two and I would like an explicit statement what you appreciate about this part. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u91	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor for a minute. From your seat, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Madam President. I'll be very brief. Minister, we have listened very carefully to you mentioning and presenting us with an ideal picture of the centre of Athens, about how citizens and others feel safe. Unfortunately, however, you have to convince us both about all this and the insecurity-insurance residents - look at the measurements - but above all, you have to convince your own members. I do not know if you have heard Mr Bogdano in his place today, who said: 'The Ministry responsible for Civil Protection', that is to say, 'we need to turn around, otherwise we risk not being implemented and proving inconsistent'. And he went on to say: 'We cannot say any more before the elections and later. The situation in historical neighbourhoods of Athens has arrived at no further". In fact, if you hear the sound, you will see that it admits that the situation today is worse than before. You must not only convince us, just the residents, but also your own members. Minister, you have hired thousands of special guards, thousands of special guards, border guards, made a "super-Ministry", the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy, four new organic units, 100 organic posts for the General Secretariat and you do not even hire, you cannot carry out the recruitment of penitentiaries and external guards by calling 6K. Your priorities are given and are in the wrong direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u93	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The reason for three minutes is the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Spirtzis. From your seat, Mr. Spirtzi, so we won't be late.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u94	I'll talk upstairs to see Mr. Plearis. Indeed, Minister, there has been a substantial debate, but not all the truths have been spoken, and that is why I have taken the floor to give a few answers. First of all, it's easy: You said we didn't buy a car. All the supplies you have made - with very few exceptions - are tenders made on SYRIZA, which had committed money on SYRIZA, which started on SYRIZA and were completed for the days of New Democracy. Why don't you say that? Your Secretary General, who was chief of police, said so, and we were wondering if he was another person. It would be another face! I mean, when a general secretary becomes, he's changed from a police chief. Those are the easy ones. Of course, these tenders were public, international, transparent tenders and not direct awards continued by the government, the final state with clandestine tenders, with full transparency and bypassing all the audit authorities and independent transparency principles. But let's go to a number of other things that were actually said. Mr. Flouris, no checks were carried out in the penitentiary by the external guards. The checks you're talking about have been carried out by the penitentiary officers. It was, however, planned to carry out exceptional checks - you understand the reasons - from outside guards. You didn't even have administrations there, now you put it. Not one check, and that's why they're full of drugs and other objects you find. Why did you stop that? And why did the chiefs change without any criteria in prison? Secondly, we have not received any response to the supplies of the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy. Third, special guard contest: on the front page - on the front page, look at it! - it's not the criterion of having an A.I.D. or a T.I.D. degree. She's in high school. And then he's got all the rest for the tattoos and the rest. Let's see what you're talking about, that is, in the declaration you made. First of all, you would cut Mr Hardalis if he applied. To understand what notices you get, you'd cut Mr. Chardalia, you wouldn't be able to take him to the university police. Secondly, have you not finished Greek EHI? Do you know many of your colleagues in Greek HEIs who would go to serve in such an institution within the HEI, attend and handle Greek students? What's that role? The one Mr. Chrysochoidis said about drugs? If there were drugs in campus, the Greek police would go in today, yesterday, the day before yesterday, whenever they wanted, to catch them, something that has already been done. Is that the role or do you want the student movement to manipulate? You know what's gonna happen, something everyone tells you, and the cops.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u95	Manipulate, not manipulate. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And since you, too, have studied in Greek HEI, no or few graduates of Greek HEI will be applying there for the ten molecules you give them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u96	To manipulate yes, I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u98	I shall conclude, Madam President. I need two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u99	No, two minutes, but one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u100	Finally, let us see who is saying that the situation in the penitentiary is good today. The government and Mr. Furtiotis. In fact, after the anthems of the White Paper on his channel, on his show, after the fiasco with his guard, etc., he is now coming out and interviewing him through prison by saying hymns about the State Secretary and Mrs Nicholas about the situation in Korydallos, but also that he doesn't want to come out. Have you seen this before? And we ask the Step of the House, what are the government's relations with Mr Furtiotis, because that is serious. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So there's no case after you put a man in jail, go out and say hymns and say he doesn't want to go out. Finally, as the Minister said, the murders of organised crime are not about citizens' lives. Minister, these murders take place within the world, next to children. In Zakynthos two people were injured unsuspecting. A citizen was also injured in St. Melletou who was just passing through there. As far as the result of all this is concerned, I come to what Mr Portasalte only says, that organised crime, as he says, knows a good sign and that citizens do not have insecurity. Only Mr. Porte and this particular journalism can say that. The result is the weakening of our democracy. According to the Eurobarometer, 15 units increased the lack of confidence in police officers. Another article says: "Social shock: Democracy in the excerpt", "Greek discontented by their operation: 83% believes that SMEs provide information based on political or business pressures", also "Eurobarometer". I shall conclude with one sentence so that we can have our position completely cleared. We'll be sick in any attempt to deal with the crime. We will be helpless in any effort to support police officers as workers and as citizens in the service of democracy and citizens. However, we are not going to be charitable to either the fight against democratic and individual rights, which the New Democracy Government has made, nor to the provocative actions that give you an alibi, nor to a 'Gebelist' policy that wants to identify counter-population with tolerance, either in terrorism or in violations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Next time, Mr. Spirtzi, I will be very strict with you! Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Madam President. I'll just say two words. Finally, you cannot avoid your "friend" populism. He's so close and historian "friend"! It's good as a political system to make an effort in here, as long as we can, so we'll slowly expel him. You told me something about kids, etc. So I remind you that Grivas, a "bravo" was killed in front of his child in front of his school. I would ask you not to mention such examples. There is one issue that is very important and I have already raised it. If you want to contribute, come and get in touch, listen to your proposals, your opinions, your ideas and promote our policies.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u103	Proceed the investigation, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u104	The investigation, Mr President, is now in court. He's out of the government's hands and he's in court. Prosecutors and interrogators are doing their job, and I'm sure of that. We will contribute to what is necessary in order to resolve this case that is so dissatisfied with the sense of corruption, beyond all the other offences. Secondly, as far as matters relating to universities are concerned, look, at last let us talk to the citizens in the language they speak, because we do not understand what we are talking about. You think the police should go and handle - you meant "manipulate" - the students. But today you don't have to do this. There are so many technological means to make it from far away, from thousands of miles away, that if you wanted to manipulate or watch, you would. Well, it's not for that reason. It's for fighting crime. Of course, the police are now entering various places. However, security, order, law and democracy must at last be established in an area which, over the last fifty years, has been suffering from this. So we'll be there. We also want your views there, but you should know that the government is not going to retreat from its policy, because it considers it very important. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, too, Minister. The debate will be closed by the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a impression that SYRIZA's ideological obsession, but also the other parties that the transfer of the responsibilities of supervising detention stores by the Ministry of Justice to the Ministry of Civil Protection automatically means, according to your question, "victims" treatment, tightening sentences, restricting licenses, abandoning social reintegration, abandoning education, opacity, undivided domination, indifference and anti-European conduct of the Orban type in Hungary. I would like to point out here that it is not acceptable for the Ministry of Justice to be viewed as a presumption of democratic Ministry and the Ministry of Civil Protection as a presumption of authoritarian and anti-democratic ministry, the Ministry that has as its purpose the protection of the life and property of citizens. The Constitution, the laws and the democratic state guarantee the rights of detainees and the social process of penalisation and reintegration. It is, in fact, incomprehensible that the transfer of competences and, in fact, the General Secretariat of Crime Policy should be characterised as authoritarianism and an increase in repression. All ministries, the whole of government policy, serve democracy, human rights, Greek and European culture. At the same time, the Ministry of Civil Protection cannot be considered as a Ministry of Police. It serves a much wider grid of responsibilities starting with policing and internal security, covers the entire range of civil protection services and manages and operates detention stores. You refer at the same time to a doctrine of "Law and Order" for penitentiary shops. You will allow me to state that such a doctrine is irrelevant to detention shops. There persons are being held in prison who have been conducted unlawfully and who have been subjected to a custodial sentence. On the other hand, in detention stores the concept of order translates into equal rights for detainees, equal rights, security of detainees against violence, threats and exploitation by their prisoners. Control and order in detention stores are equivalent and the right to equality of detainees, while ataxia means violence and bullying of the most powerful in the most diversely exposed or disadvantaged. The taking over of the new responsibilities for the Ministry of Civil Protection was accompanied by responsibility, composition, parity and energy in relation to the modernisation and upgrading of the functionality of detention stores and the further improvement of the penitentiary policy. There was no easy case or transition, since, in addition to the body of bureaucratic issues and serious outstandingities left by the SYRIZA administration, there was the COVID test -19 that literally overturned the data and priorities. Furthermore, in order to meet the requirements, functional and other, of detention stores, the need for upgraded establishment of the relevant General Secretariat for Crime Policy has emerged. It is intended to structure the technical and economic sector and a number of sections which serve specific responsibilities. It is not understood, therefore, because in your question there is a negative climate for this upgrade. Modernising and creating new data and specifications in detention stores throughout the country is a priority for the Ministry of Citizen Protection. The political empathy noted by the Qualified Opposition for the General Secretariat, but also for the person of the Secretary-General, Mrs Nikolaos, seems totally unjustified. Following the decision of Officers of the Anti-Population Officers to lodge petitions on justice, as we respect the distinction of powers which is a constitutional check and a foundation stone of our legal order, it circumvents any further reference to the content of what is being charged. We must above all respect and safeguard the presumption of innocence enjoyed by every citizen in a similar procedure. We should not pre-pay the outcome of a procedure, adopting arbitrary conclusions while the process is under way. I can assure you that we will monitor closely and respectfully the development of this process, which we are sure will at the end justifies the procedures that have been carried out by restoring the law. As far as the public-private partnership is concerned, I would like to be quite clear here: PPP for the construction of penitentiary structures, like the one in Aspropyrgos in a first shot, in no case means private detention shops. The responsibility of the public and state sectors for the operation and security of detention stores will remain absolute. There is, moreover, no statement or announcement contrary to it at the level of Prime Minister or Government. The obsessive nightmares of SYRIZA and the Left regarding the invoicing of reality should be addressed. In the work of the current government term, when it is completed, we will describe a reality for the Greek penitentiary system clearly more upgraded and operational than the one we have received. For this purpose, each resource, each instrument, every modern perception of raising and managing funds will be used in order to achieve the maximum and most excellent outcome. Messianism is not the PPPs, but the obsession with the problematic reality of the state of detention stores left behind by the proclaiming sensitive to detention and penitentiary rule SYRIZA. I would like, however, to close today's debate to highlight a number of issues by also asking the Members of the Civilian Opposition who have co-signed the question to take serious account of them. In the area of penitentiary policy and the situation of things in detention stores we should be closer. Not on the side of SYRIZA, but on the side of the other parties, can be treated as an anachronism for the proper operation of detention stores. No positions and dogmatism can be adopted for some kind of self-managed prisons with open cells. Self-managed prisons exist in Southeast Asia and Latin America, for example, but we all know very well what these prisons mean and what they mean. Ladies and gentlemen, they are a long way from European and humanitarian standards. Upgrading and modernising our penitentiary system cannot be a new Paradise law that will open wide open the door to heavy and unrepentant offenders. As a solution to any problems of overpopulation in detention stores, decongestion cannot always be projected on your part. It is our responsibility to protect institutional and essentially the legality and security of civil society, their lives and their property. On the other hand, it is our responsibility to set up a liberal and not a medieval system of penalisation. This should be our common aim, our intended strategy, not on the basis of the narrow-minded party interest and confrontation to create impressions. The state of things in detention stores is a footprint of our culture and in Greece does not express an authoritarian regime and a unilateral penitentiary penitentiary system. Not only because of its primitive culture, which connected freedom with the truth and morality, but also because the new state of the Greeks, which counts for just two centuries, was characterized by a spirit liberal from its first constitutions and the codification of its legislation since its establishment. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not be two worlds in the area of penitentiary as some in opposition believe. Liberals and Jacobians accept the same tradition for the law, the one that starts from the right word of Cad and the view of Spinoza's law. We are united by the fall of Bastille, the revolutionary process of the crowd in France, which has led Europe from authoritarianism to democracy. We're not going to agree on everything, but we can convene a lot. The main thing is that the situation of our penitentiary system cannot change from government to government, at least in one European core country. Therefore, the path of consensus and consensus is ultimately a one-way path for all of Parliament's wings. I would like to assure you by closing that our offices and staff at the Ministry of Civil Protection and your own governmental experience, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, are aware that they are not full of Javertes. They are open to debate every proposal, reflection and initiative you want to take. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the number 15/13/23-2-2021 topical question tabled by the MPs of the Radical Left coalition - Progressive Alliance to the Minister for Civil Protection - on the 'Bulgar government policy in the penitentiary' is adjourned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, with his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that on Friday 4 June 2021 the topical questions to be debated are as follows: number 4512/24-2-2021, number 815/31-5-2021, number 828/31-5-2021 and number 829/31-5-2021, and number 823/31-5-2021 and number 827/31-5-2021. They will respond to my first reader, Deputy Minister Vésiropoulos, then Ms. Makr. from the Ministry of Education, Mrs. Domna - Maria Michailidou from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and Mr. Tagaras from the Ministry of Environment and Energy. We begin with our first question under the number 4512/24-2-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - questions, by the MP of Heraklion, by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'What are the conditions for the privatisation of the former US base in the Yorks of Heraklion Crete?' I would ask that the time be respected. It's Friday, and the question's too late to end. I would ask both fellow Members and ministers to be in the short term. Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are coming back to an issue which I think needs a special approach, given that we are talking about a very important area, an excellent property for the Heraklion Regional Unit, for Heraklion Prefecture, a three hundred-five acre property with a strong proximity to the settlements, with a distance of 13 km from the city's airport, sixteen km from the city itself and, of course, a very close proximity to the Hersonissos tourist area. At a hub and centre-weight point, therefore, there is this real estate, with more than sixty acres, which launched a process of call for interest by the GOI to find an investor to exploit this area. We're actually entering. I think that in this way I have shown that this is an exceptional property case. In addition, local society is aware of it. We have the USSR, a special spatial development plan for public property. The RESIDER for us engineers many times is also called the gospel, because on the basis of these directions that this special spatial plan gives for public special-scale and velvet property is also the prerequisite for any action to be taken either to invest or to exploit public space. Therefore, this has not been completed and at the same time the Government is progressing through the GOI in the tendering procedure. This is a point, an observation, that it is not very reasonable that without the conditions and uses of land, which is the most important of all in this property, the invitation also goes ahead. However, for us - and here I would like to approach and focus - Minister, are the two main and fundamental questions: firstly, what criteria, what approach will be used to assess the value of the company to be created by the GOI and to which it will bring ownership of the property? So criteria - are the question that we - and the approach in itself are asking ourselves. The second basic question is whether the GOI has controlled any charges in the wider area from the land use of the property. If there are any charges, if there are any compensation benefits to the local community. Because it is crucial for us that returnability, particularly in this particular area, is on this particular surface that is so close to the settlements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u111	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, I think that it is useful to refer to the historic path in this case. As you know, the particular property of the former US base in the Yorks of Heraklion was transferred by the Greek State to full ownership, prestige and ownership in the TIPED and remained in ownership, on the basis of the law you brought in 2016. It was L.4389, the law known for the superstition. Subsequently, under Article 67 of Law 4557/2018, a part of that area of three hundred and seventy acres was transferred to the EBRD, which is a subsidiary of the UFO. As far as the rest of the property is concerned, the target was three hundred and forty-five acres were and the investment initiatives to be implemented in the property to strengthen employment and keep the area attraction by contributing to economic and tourism development. This is why the Government of New Democracy has been promoted by the Presidential Decree approved by the Special Spatial Development Plan for Public Property, the ECHR. This project was considered legal and adopted by a decision of the Council of State. I would also remind you that the whole consultation process was concluded with the positive opinions of the municipal council of the Municipality of Hersonissos and the Regional Council of Crete, which demonstrates the strong will of local society to make use of the property. The next period will take place the signature of the Presidential Decree and its publication in FEK. It is conceivable that the required audit has been carried out and that all issues have been examined in detail concerning possible charges from the land use of the property, both in the context of the study and the relevant public consultation and in the preparation of the draft Presidential Decree by the Council of State. On the basis of all this, the TIADED, on February 16th with the invitation to tender for the utilization of part of the former US base in the Yorks of Heraklion, the Municipality of Hersonissos, the Regional Unit of Heraklion, has opened an international bidding competition. I shall reply to the other questions you have raised in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u113	Thank you too, Minister, for the time. Here, Mr Mamulakis, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. You mentioned the EBRD, Minister, and I take the opportunity to point out here in the Greek Parliament the unacceptable attitude of the administration of the EBRD, which I would describe as a colonialist, where it has actually acted in the local communities, in the region of Crete, in the relevant municipality. It is incomprehensible that this ultimatum was given a few weeks ago with a political one I would say misguided to continue. That is what I say at the edge of the speech and by taking the opportunity you have just mentioned. Now I'm going to the point of the matter. Indeed, there is a process of hypocrising the Special Spatial Development Plan of this public property. However, this approval has not been completed and at the same time ripe conditions for land use. What we are asking for is to be crystallined and made known to the local society, given that we have two categories of land use, we have tourism on the one hand with recreation and other actions, again of a similar commercial character, I would say, is what directions are. How will they proceed? And to put the topics in a better order, because you mentioned also Mr.3986/2011 of the TIAD recommendation, there is also Article 13, Mr. Minister, which clearly states that the timetable should be set for the approval of the ECHR, which is still under way, as well as the competitive process. So, what criteria are there for the valuation of the property? The valuation, for known persons, is made by the following rules and norms: land use determines to a central extent the value of the property. It is different to give uses of land with an extreme commercial character and a different housing. And here, then, we have a creative ambiguity on your part. Since the contest is an ongoing land use we don't have. And that is a paradox that I must highlight and I really also ask for an answer on this issue. What is the direction in which the Ministry is given? What information do you have, so that the local community can also know? After all, a central claim of local society is the rewarding benefits that it expects from this investment, an investment that I told you that and I have mercy on neighboring with the residential totals also has burdens. We lived last year in the autumn with the severe flooding phenomena which hit both the region and the surrounding natural settlements and surfaces. So this is where a very key issue arises. The question is that. What procedures does the bidder follow? 'Cause you're obviously going to answer that it's a bidding contest. Very good. So what's the initial valuation of the property? On what criteria are you progressing? Obviously the economic interest of the state and the State has a central and primary character. Very good. What's the base price, how do we start? No land uses can be valued. And now, in conclusion, because I want to respect time, Mr President, although it has been saved by the Minister earlier, I would like to raise this point, which I think is very important, very important. Four basic issues govern our logic and our political direction. First, the economic interest in terms of public interest in the specific competitive process. Secondly, the need, Minister, for this investment to have a green sign. After all, we have proved in practice that we are friendly towards investment, but it is enough to shield the public interest, which in many manifestations of political life and your political action over the last two years is not clear. Thirdly, to take account of the needs of the local society concerned. That is why we are also focusing on the reward benefits. And, of course, on this axis to balance the effects, the burdens and the rewards. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki. Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u116	Mr Colleague, as I have said in my prototype, there has been a need for scrutiny, not only in the study, but also in the drafting of the Presidential Decree. After that, following the adoption of the above-mentioned Presidential Decree and in the framework of the joint Ministerial Decision to place the investment project, in accordance with Law 3986 of 2011, the environmental conditions of the projects within the property will also be approved. There will record the compensatory measures proposed by the projector, with a view to strengthening, highlighting and upgrading the natural environment, strengthening social cohesion and maximising the positive development benefits of the project in the immediate and possibly wider area of the project. As regards the valuation, before the award of the tender, an independent valuer will have the property valued by the law. Subsequently, the GOI will set up a special-purpose company to which the property will own as a unique asset and then transfer to the bidder the entire share capital of the company. All these procedures are planned, legally planned and will be launched. This is a large investment project that will give the region a strong added value. This project includes marina, shopping centers, sports facilities, hotel accommodation, casino, miniature golf course, conference and exhibition centre, aquarium, as well as facilities to be used by local institutions and self-government for research, education and general interest purposes. The country, Mr President, is changing from the attraction and development of major investment initiatives, and I believe that this is something that everyone is now aware of, even those who have previously had fraudulent or ideologies. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u117	Thank you to the Minister, Mr. Besiropoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Orders presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance "Structuring from 30-5-2021 of the legislative act “Institution, content and procedure for the issue of Digital Certificate COVID -19” (A'87) and more specific safeguards for the protection of personal data”. Discontinue for a few minutes without moving from our position. Due to the fact that there is a particularly increased traffic on the road, we are waiting for Mrs Michailidou to reply to the next questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u118	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We move on to the first with number 828/31-5-2021, a timely question from the first question by the MP of Heraklion, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Renewing workers' contracts in the social structures of the Region of Crete". The following questions will be answered, as I said before, by the State Secretary for Social Affairs, Ms Maria-Domna Michailidou. Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know very well, social welfare structures have a huge offer and contribution to the wall of social protection, which is so necessary today. Their role and this offer and contribution are undeniable. For this reason, our society must in every way protect, strengthen and shield these structures and the central state, precisely in this direction, to contribute and help structures with the necessary staff, with permanent workers, with all equipment and resources. The image, of course, throughout Greece is similar and if you have the data, it would be good to give us the image from all over Greece. The structures of Crete that are limited here my question is served by elderly people, people with health problems, mentally or kineticly, are served by people who live alone, people with disabilities. In other words, people who in recent years have been serving for the past or biased years are in need of this powerful firewall and these structures have actually contributed to it. As I told you, the image of the structures in Crete is similar to the rest of Greece and I would, if you have them, like the figures of the rest of Greece. In the structures of Crete, sixty-four employees with individual contracts with either subsidiary staff actually end up or end up at this time. The Ministry has so far seen no mood, no movement, no care to renew them. They are workers in the function of structures necessary, such as cooks, cook assistants, bankers, cleaning workers and guard workers. The question to you, Minister, is whether you intend to proceed with the renewal of these conventions and to fill out the vacant positions for the proper functioning and continuation of the proper functioning of these structures without the involvement of private contractors. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u120	We also thank Mr Igoumenides for the consistency in time. The Minister, Mrs Domna Michailidou, has the floor for three minutes now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Igoumenides, of course, it is always a very unpleasant surprise and development for every fellow citizen to find himself out of the labour market for some time. However, this development you know that for workers at the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete they were known to everyone. You know as much as we, and our fellow citizens concerned, that their contracts had an end date and that there was no legislative framework for extending them or signing a new individual contract. In particular, Law 4430/2016, which your government voted for, enabled central and decentralised ministries' services, as well as public and private legal entities supervised by the Ministries in order to meet cleanliness, catering, feeding and storage needs to conclude individual fixed-term private-law contracts if they are not sufficient for their existing staff and have unforeseen or urgent circumstances. The Act granted this possibility by way of derogation from any other general and special provisions of the law for a limited period. It therefore expired on 31 December 2019. The management of the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete not only made use of the possibility provided by your law, Law No 4430/2016, and proceeded after a notice to conclude twenty-four private contracts in the fields of feeding, catering and storage, but did the same thing for both groups. For all these contracts, as I said before, according to national legislation, there was no possibility of renewal or change in indefinite time, and that was something that was legislated in 2016 very specifically, by your own government and then all the assistants, the Ministry, the Social Welfare Centre and, of course, the workers. I would also like to mention that the Centre's administration, which was well aware of the specific status of contracts, is responsible for what has happened. And while it could include very specific cook, bankers, as well as cleaning and storage staff to permanent staff in 7K - I recall that this had taken place in December 2018 - nothing had happened since December 2018 as regards the inclusion of these specialties. But then, in view of the pandemic-based needs, I would like to remind you of this. We have legislated for the temporary staff COVID these five hundred posts throughout Greece, which increased by one third the staffing potential of our structures, precisely because we know that in time we cannot leave anyone uncovered, and all the beneficiaries must receive the services they receive until the first time, but in particular the ones they need to receive. So that's not where things were going. In other words, they were not included in what they should have been. As far as your question is concerned, you are now calling for the renewal of individual contracts in order to fill vacant posts. As I tried to explain, these contracts were concluded on the condition that they were not renewed. Asking now or asking for the opposite is like asking for us to violate the 2016 law that you voted on. So, as far as the proper functioning of the welfare systems is concerned, what we can say is that the specific contracts that have been made at the moment by the administration and their renewal in the way I try to explain in my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Minister. Mr Igoumenides has the floor for his denology for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u123	Madam President, first of all I thank you for the answer you have given, but I would like to clarify a few points. First, the termination of contracts was known. And the question is not about the administration of the social welfare structures of Crete or any other administration. The question is in the government. The government, knowing that the contracts are over, positions will be ruined, doomed, and the marginally operating structures will be left without staff and therefore with the risk of collapse, what did it do? The government here is essentially referring to contractors, making calls of interest to contractors. The contractors are actually moving to ensure their maximum profit. And in this direction they are pushing the positions out of the way - if you like - they facilitate you for direct assignments. One of the prisoners Secondly, I asked you if you intend to renew the contracts without that meaning that it is the only solution. One solution is the renewal of contracts. One solution is the proclamation of permanent staff with mobilisation of positions for people who are already working. In any case, if you want to do so, there are many solutions. And in order to come specifically, as I told you, there are sixty-four people and there really remain vacant posts at risk of the collapse of these structures. At PAAPAK today 4 and tomorrow 5 June, two cleaning contracts expire and in August another one expires. Who's gonna clean up the center? It is simple, today and tomorrow, that the two conventions end on Monday who will clean up the center? At Heraklion's Pore in June, four cleanliness contracts are concluded, one safe contract and one cook. What are you going to do about it? Two cooking places, one assistant cook, in July, ends a cleaning contract, one guard contract and another guard contract in September. What are you going to do about it? I can list all sixty-four seats. And as I told you, it is not if the administration told you about it or the other position. What's the government doing? How do you support these structures? I would agree with you - if that is your position - for permanent staff. Very good, publish the seats now! You want some new contracts? Make new contracts. Give position molecule for people who leave a piece of their souls every day in these structures to function them. But don't leave them on the autopilot. And if you want to give them to private individuals, if your tactics are to give them to contractors who, beyond all else, are working conditions that are far from perfect for the workers, say it clearly. In the judgement of the workers who are listening to us, it is yours and ours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for her denunciation for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Igoumenides, I thought I'd start calmly, but you're hitting me at my point at that of staffing. Mr Papoutsis, never in the last decade have the privileged structures been so steadfast. Never in the last decade have our state's closed pro-skilled structures been so steadfast. And you know why? Because our government does not want and does not leave - not only does it not want, leaves - no one behind. And that on three axes, right? You have adopted permanent positions in December on the promotional structures. For seven months nothing has happened with the previous government, nothing. Within a month of taking over this ministry, as soon as I took up the position of the Deputy Minister, from July to August we had already been to the ASP. We have been proclaiming these positions within a month. Why? For two reasons. The first reason is because we cannot leave our structures uncovered. We need to have and we believe in permanent staff, especially in the privileged structures. Why? Because they develop relationships of trust. Because the beneficiaries, who are the most vulnerable in these structures, are developing necessary relationships of confidence, which must have a lasting duration. And the second reason we do this is that our government does not accept having people five to seven years to work as contractors when they actually meet permanent needs. So within a year we did what, in at least seven, was unable to do or failed to do - or did not care - the previous government did not care at the end. So it's not possible for him to come and give up here. We've done everything in our power, and we've exhausted it. In particular, in the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete, how many places are these? Sixty. These are sixty permanent posts and the final tables are already out. We stopped there? No, we didn't stop there. I told you that we increased the staff, the human resources, by 1/3, by 33% throughout Greece. And within these five hundred new posts, which are at least for a year and a half, of course, there are also the Social Welfare Centre in Crete. Of the five hundred, forty-two are for Crete. We stopped there? No, we didn't stop there either, because the Centre for Social Welfare in Crete also made new ancillary staff. How many? Forty-five. So we have the sixty ADP staff, who are permanent, because we believe that the needs of our beneficiaries, forty-two COVID temporary staff, should be met for at least one and a half years and forty-five additional staff. We therefore have a government, which has been in the first place within the last decade, taking the staffing issue seriously. And I'm telling you with absolute responsibility. In the last decade - and that is what the administrations have been telling me, but that is what the workers themselves have told me - our pro-active structures have never been so staffed. We believe deep in the proper staffing of our structures. We're not leaving anyone behind. And it is our responsibility, which, in practice, we are implementing, to help the beneficiaries, of course, the workers in our structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u126	We continue with the second with No 829/31-5-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Let the blind pensioners be brought to justice". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Article 21 of the Constitution stipulates that people with disabilities have the right to enjoy measures ensuring autonomy, professional integration and participation in the social, economic and political life of the country. A number of measures, indeed, have been introduced by our country, which had incorporated international conventions and obligations into national law, which really support autonomous living. There has been a joint ministerial decision since 1973 concerning an allowance for lawyers employed in the exercise of their obligations and problems arising from their blindness, as described above, which was normally paid up to a circular issued by the Secretary-General of Social Solidarity in April 2020, which altered the level of the allowance. The blind lawyers appealed to the Citizens' Counselor, who issued a finding to the OPEKA and filed his decision, his interpretation, that the Secretary-General's document is contrary both to the explicit provisions of the CSH, which I mentioned since 1973, and to Article 3 of the 1979 Law and to the system of purposes and weightings which the joint legislator has made in support of the blind. Since, in addition to the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor, OPEKA is responding to the personal appeals made by one - one responds to and vindicates the blind lawyers - and I have here, at least, four decisions I will make in the minutes - which we want, if you accept the conclusion and on the grounds that the OPEK has already adopted four decisions in this direction, justifying the withdrawal of the Secretary-General's document or an amendment, so that the administration, in compliance with the Counsellor's decision and the reality, will be justified by this procedure, but there will be a universal procedure for justifying them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u128	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Honourable Member, the question you are addressing us was raised by your colleague, Maria Apatzidis, Mera25 here in Parliament, in April 2020, in which we responded as we were due. The same question was raised by your colleagues in the Staff Regulations in the form of a reference to the Minister of State Mr Gerapetititi and to the then Minister of Labour Mr Brutsis. Although, to date, nothing has changed in relation to the content of our Ministry's replies, I thank you for your question, because you are giving me the opportunity to clarify a number of things that are often confusing. First of all, I would like to say that rationalization of the rule of law in a rule of law does not constitute an act of vengeance, as some people do. rationalisation does not mean cuts and, in fact, unjustified. It means restoring legality, which - we must admit - is often being circumvented, not intentionally, but because of the fragmentation of public services, which do not allow effective and effective controls so that the citizen receives from the State exactly what he is entitled to. Nothing more, but even more important, nothing less. The technology that we must use in the public interest is what we are doing today. This is exactly what OPECA did, which, as a Single Promoting Benefits and Social Solidarity Management Body, proceeded in cooperation with HICP in February 2020, as you know, in the cross-checking of its own e-beneficiaries with the e-retirement register to various social security institutions. Therefore, the audit carried out showed that in a total of sixteen thousand recipients of the disability allowance, the eighty-nine were retired, who received at the same time a blindness allowance of EUR 697, while all of their other fellow citizens with disabilities received an allowance of EUR 362 a month. Also, the hundreds of eighty - nine of our fellow citizens, before retirement, exercised, for the most part, the profession of lawyer and some may have been scientists who practiced their scientific knowledge as a profession. So then, this administration of the OPEK did what is self-evident. What's that? It went on to implement the existing legislative framework, which, I would remind you, has remained the same for years. We did not make any change in the legislative framework and decided to modify the blindness allowance, in line with the limits set by the relevant legislation for all other beneficiaries. There was no special charge for any special law. Acknowledging, however, that there was no feasibility, they did not give this decision retroactive effect. That's all for the story! [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Allow me, Mr President, to finish in a minute. I now come to the necessary clarifications to restore the truth. The modification of the allowance was because our eighty - nine fellow citizens are retired. It is not about blind lawyers or blind scientists who work and get 100% of the allowance. Our retired fellow citizens with other disabilities took half as much as they did. It is also interesting to know that eighty-nine cases of our fellow citizens, who received a grievance - quadruple benefit from a social security institution, have occurred through the same electronic intersection. However, further checks showed that these benefits did not involve a pension or pension benefit, so the money of the temporary detention was returned to them and they continued to receive the allowance as it was. That's what I think of my prototype. We have enough to say in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. In April 2020, we also asked you a question. But it is not true that since April 2020 nothing has changed. So isn't that the Citizens' Counselor's conclusion something? Doesn't he say anything about you? I shall therefore present the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor who arrived in October 2020. The conclusion, therefore, says that the allowance is poorly cut if it appears for other reasons, which have to do with the state’s legislation to support it, the disabled person as a retired person, but who has the profession. So we have the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor, which is after April 2020. I felt somewhere that you were fighting me, that after it was answered in April 2020, why are you coming back? So I come back because there is the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor. Respect for that. And please, if there is an opposite view from the conclusion of the Citizens' Counsel, give it the opposite view. I will submit one, two, three, four, five decisions of the OPECA. Didn't OPEKA belong to you? It belongs to you. OPEKA, therefore, is entitled to retired blind men who accepts the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor and annuls, in each case, the Secretary's decision. I will put these in the Minutes - I do not give them to the public, because they have names and personal data - to take them into account. Therefore, OPEKA himself makes decisions, which are in the direction of compliance with the conclusion of the administration of the Citizens' Counselor. I don't understand why you said nothing had changed. It's not right the information service gave you. It is right that what you have said about the rules that must be applied - and they apply - to the institutional framework. But here we are talking about implementation. This is not the right information for implementation. So here comes OPEKA and vindicates people one, one. I think what we have to do - I say to the plural - is to reshape the circular of the Secretary-General, which should be limited to what you said. It's not limited to that. It's general, unfair and illegal. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u132	And we thank Mr. Kegeroglu. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u133	Mr Kegeroglu, I am afraid that in your interpretation of the contested joint ministerial decision a pole of inequality is actually created between workers and retired blind scientists who are still working. This was not under any circumstances the intention of the legislator. With this I would like to say that - and let me remind you how it is - our blind fellow citizens with disabilities come to retirement after 15 years. After 15 years, when they come to retirement, they are the main quality of the pensioner. So, unlike our other fellow citizens, they can get 100% of their pension and, unlike our other fellow citizens, work and get 100% of their work. To the rest of our fellow citizens without this disability, you know that the legislator does not let 100% of their pensions be received. So our fellow citizens who practice the lawyer's profession and who have been retired after 15 years, because quite rightly the legislator understands that the circumstances are different and the daily working life of a man with blindness is different, which is why he is making pensions at 15 years of work and, furthermore, precisely because his daily life is even more difficult, he is able to get 100% of his pension. However, the law does not provide anywhere that this pensioner is something different from any other disability pensioner, so what this pensioner will get, given that there is no and we have not taken any more specific legislation, will be what other disabled pensioners get, which is the 392 euro allowance. That'll take. That is what the law says and there is no special provision in this regard. Now on the conclusion of the Citizens' Counsel, we are, of course, prepared to respond to the invitation of the Counsellor to discuss, but also to explain our position on the matter and listen to his own views. I would mention, as you have said, that the OPEKA's relevant decisions, with which we are being accepted, are based, as far as I know, an appeal by blind scientists and lawyers, as far as I know, that the administration of the OPEK has requested their review, which is in progress, so we are waiting for the relevant conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u134	Thank you too, Minister. We move on to the second report with 2112/24-2021 of the reporting and questions of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The unfavourable situation in the Annex of Persons with Disability in Lassithi due to shortages in medical and nursing staff and the difficult conditions for workers to face in the midst of a pandemic of COVID -19". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, I have to ask you what you have said. I am quite beyond me, honestly, the position you have made, that you are writing in a note the conclusion of the Citizens' Counselor with whom we have an obligation to comply when it indicates exactly where the administration is illegal. And when the administration conforms, you say that you will force her to dismantle. I'm getting beyond that! It conforms to the Citizen's Counsel, makes a fair and proper decision under the law and you say "No. Because I have a different view, I will overturn the decision of the OPECA." I'm getting beyond all this honesty! And I do not know whether it makes sense to discuss a basis for political dialogue that needs to resolve issues and not to accumulate problems. What can I say? We have a report from Lassithi on the MEP's annex to the Social Welfare Centre. Social welfare centers have been living since 2013. They don't have a life for ten years. I say this because I heard the debate before. There are people who have been with the first AS contract since 2014 who with continuous renewables have been working to date. Since 2014, the subsidiary we received from the social welfare centres have been working to date. These people, then, who have been enriched with other contractors, who have been enriched with other specialties, also need better management in order to deal with the problems. We have a staffing issue. You already said there's been notices and you'll take care of it. This is very basic and I wish it would go ahead. We also have a human resources management issue. Here the document I made the report raises the issue of manpower management, that apart from being a little bit of a world, there is no rational use to deal with the problems. I do not know what the reality is, I have not visited, I have not made the detective, but I think that you who have taken note of the report that I have submitted to you will have taken the necessary steps to inform the administration of the matter, to see if the Lassithi branch of staff is in need of any staffing capacity. We have within a number ranging each time, eighty-one being in the period when this memorandum was written. It is a closed structure and we must, indeed, best manage human resources to deal with the problems. I would therefore like you to tell us what you intend to do to address the problems posed by this protest. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u136	Here, Minister, the reason for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u137	Mr. Kegeroglu, don't disorientate! Please don't disorientate, so I don't say anything more powerful, do I? The Counsel has not sent the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs any decisions. No decision! There is no question, therefore, that we do not take it into account as much as we should. He didn't send anything like that. The Counsel has asked for our opinions, which, of course, we shall be presenting, and that is exactly why the OPEKA has asked for a review, because we are working together and listening to all the independent authorities. He didn't send us a decision. He asked for our decision, sent his opinion, and on it he called for us, and of course we have to talk about it. Now, with regard to the letter of protest by the medical staff of the Annex AMEA Lassithi, I have carefully read the letter of protest signed by nine workers in the Annex AMEA Lassithi. It is, of course, an emotionally charged letter by which these workers - most of them in the majority of the nurses, of course - denounce the inappropriate and insulting behaviour on their part by their colleagues, the discriminatory attitude of the association of workers who have been converted - say - to a 'a few' body and are also members of the board of directors of the social welfare centre - who say - with what they denounce. Why is this all happening? They do not dare - they say - to claim self-evident, that is, personal. So, by reading this letter, one realizes that a conspiracy is exalted within the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete, with a view to dismantling the nursing section in Annex AMEA Lassithi. But is that really so? Can we take a look at the evidence our department has? With the outbreak of the pandemic one of the first steps we have taken was, of course, to strengthen, as I have said before, the staffing potential and this in two essential ways: first, we have taken the famous 7K proclamation for permanent staff. And that's why? Because permanent staff needs our structures. We need permanent staff in our structures, because needs are permanent, cannot be covered by subsidiary staff who have renewed his contracts for five or seven years. We don't want this for our staff. However, permanent staff also meets permanent needs for relations between beneficiaries and workers. Now, in particular, we have also made temporary staff, as I have said before, the five hundred-person temporary staff of COVID. Over forty have come to the Centre for Social Welfare in Crete. Now, in particular, what I said to you: over forty, forty-two total seats of which nine are in the Lassithi Annex with a view to strengthening nursing staff. In particular, there were a TE position of nursing, four positions of assistant nurses, three positions of health workers and one post of catering assistants. It is interesting to stress here that one of these positions which was intended for a medical specialist has remained vacant due to a lack of interest. The fact becomes even more interesting if we consider that the same position was reopened on 19-5, on 30-10-2020 without result. However, the management insisted on and reopened it on May 11, 2021, along with a position of assistant nurses. But both positions have remained vacant due to lack of interest. The last attempt is made with the notice on 26-5 a few days ago, along with two posts of assistant nurses. The deadline for the submission of applications expired on 31 May and it seems that, unfortunately, only two applications have been submitted for the post of assistant nurses, while the position of nursery training remains vacant again. I am therefore referring to the actions of the administration, for which one can easily see that they have been made, to point out that the complaint about an attempt to dismantle the nursing section in the Lassithi Annex is irresponsible. I told you about six notices. So we cannot say that no one is trying to bring nursing personnel when the administration has made more than six notices of positions that we have made for nursing staff. On the contrary, there is therefore an attempt to make use of all the possibilities which the legislative framework of the annexes to the Centre's annexes give the best possible staff. However, in some cases we see that there are indeed difficulties. However, there is a continuity. In the next few years additional forty-five permanent employees are expected to be employed in the social welfare centre. These are the parts that concern the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete from the 7K notice we made for the ASP, which concerns three hundred and seventeen new permanent organic positions as a whole. For the record, I mention that the fulfilment of the organic positions recommended by the previous government seven months before the June elections was from the first moment in our government's priorities and one month after that ministry took over, we went to the APRC, we declared the positions, the final tables and the people in a short time will be within our structures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in 2013-2014, for which I have a direct knowledge, all procedures were subject to the limitations of the second memorandum, which means that many times the notice of subsidiary and contractors was a one-way road. So, do not compare me with what is happening after 2018, where at least we do not have the terrible and terrible restrictions at the time. There's nothing to do with it! If you tell us that we poorly received the assistants then, I tell you that in one way or another they still work and meet needs themselves. I'm not talking about everybody, I'm talking about a percentage. And well they do and work, because otherwise there wouldn't be any staff. Also, welcome are permanent notices, because since this possibility exists, due to the fact that this sector has been released from the limitations that have existed, the need to staff with permanent staff also gives an answer to a long-term programming that you can make, but also to the greatest efficiency that you can have from the social welfare centres and the individual units that they have, especially from the closed care units, such as the "Chronic Diseases Site" in Agios Nikolaos Lassithi. He really needs the necessary staff. In an open structure, things are different. However, in the closed structure the needs are ruthless, and if there is no necessary staff, the hundreds of people who are in need of care, care and care will really stay without them, which creates great problems. That is why it is very important that you see, of course, giving this staff priority, but without ignoring the needs that exist for other sectors too, how it will be covered with permanent staff. But you should see what happens when for various reasons, which I do not know, these positions are not covered. In fact, I would say that's also contradictory because of the interest there are many to find a job. I don't know if they think it's such a hard job in Lassithi's closed time unit that they don't go applying. I don't know, maybe something else is happening. In any case, however, if these requirements are not met by the notice, they should be covered in a different way. The unit cannot be subordinated. So I, on the occasion of the protest, raise a point. I do not know the individual - I told you all over again - and I cannot know them because I cannot control them. I'm putting this issue on the table. It's wider. I can see that something is moving, but it's not his thing. There must be complete work to do. There's got to be a result. Of course, we must also address the problems raised by our colleagues in today, but also another question. Let the government choose. Does the government want to do project contracts? Let it be done with project contracts. He wants to work under contracts? Let it be done by means of contracts of employment, but not in the debate on the choice and there are no corresponding services, from cleaning and feeding to nursing, without the necessary staff, without the necessary people who will provide services. I'm closing up, saying something about the previous thing. All right, I filed your papers. Now, if OPEKA without finding out by the Citizens' Counselor is right to people, even better because this OPEKA service that takes into account the law and not the circulars, which, as you know, have no legal effect, as they have to interpret the law and not change it and amend it. You know that. So give it a solution. I don't want any further conversation. I tell you to review this circular according to the law. That is what I am asking you to do, because other things are happening here. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u140	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, of course, we are examining and responding to the call of the Citizen's Counsellor. I say again 'call' and not 'decision'. Let us not disorientate. It's a call, not a decision. Of course, it would otherwise be a decision and it was binding on us to adopt it. So because we know the national legislation, we will discuss the subject with the Counsel, to see what it is - to be honest - the right and what is wrong and whether or not we are right or not to insist on our position. As regards the part of the staffing potential in our structures, the innovative structures and especially in the prosperous structures of Crete, I do not even have the need for me to be responsible for what has happened in the past decade. We know the limitations that were in place at the time by the government, but also the convergence that was the last decade. Of course, I respect your position as a competent minister for you at the time. But we also know the legacy that the SYRIZA - ANEL government left us. This legacy left us by the SYRIZA - ANEL government is called 'Reinforced supervision'. So, with this legacy of SYRIZA - ANEL of enhanced supervision, neither can we make the recruitments we would like to ensure at the highest possible level that we can ensure the flexibility we want for the labour market in the public sector and especially in the innovative structures. But given the problems, if you want, which exist in it, we have done what goes through our hands and really with a sense of responsibility I tell you that in the last decade our structures have never been so staffed. Never! And we have done so organised and step by step, and we have used, as you have said, every possible financial instrument and every possible mechanism to do that. Who are all these mechanisms? It's S.H.I.E.L.D. It's the famous 7K proclamation we've achieved and made permanent employees. There are three hundred seventeen seats in all the pre-primary institutions throughout Greece, because we believe that these workers must have a permanent job. They develop very close relations with the beneficiaries and cannot leave every year or every three years or every five years. When orphans of children or elderly people or young people are developing relationships of trust with workers in social structures, in pro-active structures, it is our duty to ensure the stability of this relationship. And we did that with the declaration 7K and the final tables now that we have for workers in all structures. Another mechanism, another opportunity that we had was the emergency staff. We were able to achieve what I said to you, namely to increase by 1/3 the staff in these structures for at least a year and a half, because no one should be left behind, especially in the pandemic period. All the tools we put together. What did we do now? We asked the administrations in all social welfare centres, as well as the Typhlon Rehabilitation and Education Centre, the National Foundation of the Deaf, the "Papafio" in Thessaloniki, the Centre of MEME in Lamia, to map their needs so that, in cooperation with the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Finance, we can make other permanent posts. So, first of all, we have implemented the already adopted but never implemented recruitment of new permanent officials. There are now these employees in the final ADP tables. Secondly, at the hardest time, we have increased the workers in the structures by a third, so that no one is left behind and even the most difficult financial period is not left behind. Thirdly, we are mapping out the needs so that we can make new positions because we believe in the need for these people to be permanent so that relations with the beneficiaries are the ones that we should provide as a state. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u142	Thank you too, Minister, for the completeness of the answers to all three questions. We continue with the third under the number 815/31-5-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki Mr. Konstantina Adamos to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Tables of assistant teachers". The question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey. Mrs. Adamou, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, another school year is coming to an end with all the problems that have not been tackled, and in a few months' time a new school year will begin, of course, with all the usual gaps in teachers once again. In accordance with the AACC Notice 3EA/2019 on the priority process by sector and specialisation of candidates for educational primary and secondary special education and training in the class of IP, the relevant ranking tables will apply for the three school years following the end of the school year in which the publication of the final assessment tables of the Government Journal will take place. In addition, during their term of validity, the final rating tables cannot be fed, updated by new data, except after the end of the three-year period I mentioned. So this is where the question of political will arises in this respect, as the result of the above being thousands of teachers entering a permanent and long-term unemployment situation because they are deprived of the right to participate in the process to cover the necessary posts in the next school year. In practice, your message to teachers is that since they do not meet the standards required by your Ministry at the time, they should have to live in an unemployment scheme for the next three years, completely indifferent to the needs of their own and their families, but also indifferent to the work they have done over the years to obtain these supplies. This constitutes an unjustified injustice to young people and new candidate candidates for special education in primary and secondary schools and sentences them to three years' unemployment. I ask you, Madam Secretary: do you intend to revise the process of selecting teachers by opening tables annually for the full coverage of the gaps in education? Secondly, do you intend, even if the three-year closure of the tables is not abolished, to allow at least the supply of at least - an update of some of the information they wish to obtain in order to ensure a level playing field for all the candidate teachers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to Parliament in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Article 3126/2003 "Prime responsibility of the Ministers", as is the case, the 4-6-2021, criminal case law concerning the Deputy State Secretarys: first, State Secretary to Prime Minister Stylianos Petsa and second, Economic Theodoros Dollakakis. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Fellow, you know that the appointments of permanent teachers are one of the three components of the educational and economic policy of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for primary, secondary and special education and these have been extensively analysed by the Minister of State of Keramea. The other two elements, apart from appointments, are the qualitative upgrading of public school by implementing flagship actions. Indicatively: two-year pre-school education, skill workshops, supportive teaching in secondary education, supportive education structures, integration of vulnerable social groups and refugees into the educational process of specialized and personalised support for the integration of disabled pupils, support for schools by psychologists and social workers, distance learning of our teachers. Thirdly, the digital upgrading of public schools and of the school network. Within a few months approximately one and a half million teachers and students were integrated from primary and secondary education and lifelong learning to distance learning by crushing stereotypes, plunging inferiorly and transforming the educational process. For us at the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs the permanent appointments that are a dominant element of our programming are an innovation for educational data in the last decade. Appropriations have been provided for this year for the appointment of ten thousand five hundred permanent teachers for general primary and secondary education, thus strengthening the public school's human resources, supporting the process of learning and at the same time providing our educational stability prospects and the possibility of professional resilience. The permanent appointments cover important needs of our educational system and come to be added to the four and a half thousand permanent appointments for the special education and education that were implemented in 2020, which is the first in the history of the country in this sensitive area of education. Our aim is at the same time to satisfy two conflicting needs: to create a sense of security and work satisfaction for our teachers because of the dynamic nature of education and of course not to leave our students uncovered. That is why our aim is to carry out appointments and to place our teachers as soon as possible before the start of the school year for the fuller staff of school units. I will develop you in my dentext technical details of the system of appointment of teachers of special scientific staff and special assistant staff. In closing the prototype, I would like to point out that in spite of the oral, despite the obvious adversities brought about by the health crisis, and unfortunately it has affected education in our country, the aim of the Ministry of Education's political leadership is to implement reforms in education, as well as investments in it. More in my denture so I don't have to interrupt and not breach the time limit. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Minister, and the consistency in time. Mrs Adamou has the floor for her second language for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mrs. Undersecretary. The truth is that you did not answer my question, which is very specific. You have, of course, knit a very beautiful eloquence for the ministry that you are commanding. You will allow me, as will most teachers in our country, to have a completely different view of the treatment of pandemic and of the management of pandemic in the classrooms, in our school halls. From your answer we understand that it will probably continue with the decision of the law I have mentioned. So it's a political choice and a decision to put thousands of teachers into the system of chronic unemployment. I would say that this political decision of yours is the least questionable morally and absolutely against the essential role and duty that the government must have in relation to the citizens of the society it represents. The aim of all of us as representatives of the Greek Parliament must be to ensure prosperity and serve the interests of the citizens. It is even more problematic that you continue and proceed with such a decision, and even in normal circumstances, I mean pre-COVID -19, schools are opening up every year with many vacancies of teachers, which in the end are enough to be covered in January and February of this school year, let alone now with the pandemic. So there is an urgent need to recruit more assistant teachers. My question was on this procedure. So this choice of your Ministry results in the degradation of our country's educational system because of the human potential that will be lost. Think about it. Thousands of assistant teachers - and we are now talking about people who are usually over thirty years old - are not young children who have just graduated, who have too many obligations or families - will have to look for a different career or an occasional occupation in order to cover their living costs. Because it is not possible, knowing that they will remain unemployed the next three years to stay with their hands crossed. You are also pushing them through this decision, indirectly but clearly, on the illegal black labour market. In addition, the evaluation and classification of teachers in the tables is based on academic qualifications, but also on social criteria. You and the ADP are doing very well, too. This means, however, that while you are based on criteria that I have said are academic and social, and we understand how variable they are, you are making a self-review of the credibility of the criteria that you have set and advanced or are not changing the corresponding arrangement, which prohibits the feeding of tables with new data for this whole period of time. In other words, you prevent the teachers from renewing their application and claiming the place they may have a merit. I would therefore like to inform you that these young people and young people have worked in a mental way, but they have worked out both work and finances to pay back these postgraduate courses, because this particular postgraduate degree is unfortunately most of them even in public universities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So they may have obtained a postgraduate degree, doctoral degree or a foreign language degree or even have acquired a new member of the family...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u148	Don't change the subject, Mrs. Adamou. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u149	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm not changing the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u150	I hear about graduates and doctors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u151	They are the qualifications requested by the AACC for the proclamation of positions. This is exactly what I mentioned from the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u152	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u153	So you deprive them of that right and condemn them to years of unemployment, even when there are shortages of substitutes every year from our schools. Finally, this provision of the law on three-year locking down the ranking tables is completely marginal in relation to Article 22 of the Constitution, which stipulates that work is a right and is protected by the State which provides for the creation of employment conditions for all citizens. Such unjustified and unequal treatment is a flagrant injustice for candidate substitutes for special education. So I ask you again, because it is clearly a matter of political and moral will and relates to a political decision, if you intend to open the ranking tables per year and not every three years, that is, on an annual basis for the realistic and complete coverage of the gaps in education for an education that we all need in Greece. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u154	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam President, I am sure you have listened with caution to my prototype, in which I told you that technical details of the appointment by the AACC will be mentioned in my second language. Please pay attention to them, because when I mention them, you will find that what you are proposing, that is to say at any time being able to submit its additional qualifications, would actually lead to a failure by the AACC to validate the results and examine the objections, i.e. to a complete failure to appoint teachers. So I say to you as briefly as possible that, in accordance with the provisions of Law 4589/2019 on the system of appointment and recruitment of teachers, members of special scientific staff and special secondary and secondary assistant staff, the new legislative framework for permanent appointments and recruitment of deputies and senior school teachers, secondary education, special education and education was put in place through the Staff Selection Board. We will all agree that it has unstable procedures. The provisions of Articles 54, 55 and 56 shall set out the procedure for the award and delivery of contracts and contracts every two years. You also insist on saying in your written reference to your timely question and in your position the oral question for three years. Every two school years, therefore, rankings by industry and the candidates' specialty in filling vacancies of primary and secondary education, members of special scientific staff and special assistant staff at the request of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. The procedure for submitting applications for applications for applications shall also be laid down in accordance with the notice of the AACC and, thirdly, the classification of applicants for appointment or recruitment in the rating tables. These evaluation tables shall be valid until the end of the second school year following the end of the school year in which their publication took place in the Official Journal of the Government. According to the Law, as far as the rating tables are concerned, the latter are not powered by new elements. However, teachers who consider that their supporting documents were not properly assessed have the right to object to the AACC. Following the examination of objections by the AACC, the final assessment tables, as well as the final ancillary evaluation table, shall be drawn up and published in the Official Journal of the Government. In the light of the above, it is clear that the entire process of classification in the evaluation tables in order to be given priority by the candidates for training is carried out by the AACC. The opening annually of these tables for the submission of new supporting documents and data by teachers is not provided by the legislation in force and I will tell you why. Because the submission of new evidence would imply the launching of a new classification procedure and because of the large number of applicants it would be impossible to complete this process in time, the classification process, and even before the start of the school units of the next school year. In addition, it would be impossible to revise the tables already published by adding the educational documents to the extent that the whole procedure is subject to the control of the AACC, which is responsible for the procedure and ultimately reforming the tables after the end of the objections. The complexity of the criteria and the corresponding supporting documents set out in the new law on the procedure for the classification of candidates in priority tables with a competent body, the AACC shall require that the necessary time to check any criteria and supporting documents invoked by the candidates for the procedure for examining the objections of candidates by the AACC be ensured. Consequently, maintaining the rating tables applies for the two years I repeat and not three years, as you insist to ask. Because the three-year period has already been abolished by Article 64 of Law 4622/20, as it now applies, amended by Article 56 of Law 4589/19, or rather amended by Article 19. The legislator provided for this two-year period in order to ensure the integrity and transparency of the whole procedure. It therefore makes it clear that transparency in recruitment in the public sector is interlinked with integrity, which the administration must keep and maintain and ensure to your fullest knowledge, and to the fullest extent possible, that the final evaluation tables for the ranking of special education and training awards 3EAA/19, 4EAA/19, 5EAA/19 apply until the school year '21-22, because the objections were judged by the AACC and the reformed evaluation tables of appointing authority were issued. And with regard to the final evaluation tables of general education, that is to say the 1GI/19, 2GI/19, 1G/20, 2G/20 have not been reformed, because so far the procedure for examining objections has been pending. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u156	Thank you too, Minister. The next two and last questions will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. We proceed to the first with number 823/31-5-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In fact, the installation of wind turbines next to the settlements of Eagle & Nympheos in Florina within a forest area". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u157	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we really continue to be surprised by developments in the windy part. We had in Evia the violation of the spatial planning of the RES, due to the overcoming of the carrying capacity, the Kythera licensed producer within the villages zone, within the ban zone from the spatial planning, that is to say in all three settlements, traditional settlements and archaeological sites. And now we see in Airrachi, next to Eagle, next to Nymphaeus, Amyntheus, wind into a very important forest, an alpine zone in the oak forest that is protected, next to a double protected area, two kilometres from an area double-protected by the European Union, two "NATURA" and for birds in particular, in the migration corridor of threatened species, of silver pelicans. The 2011 Act explicitly stipulates that, where there are effects on the area, the protected objects of the NATURA area should be assessed and evaluated in a specific ecological manner. And even though GDP was given in 2013, neither was it, illegally, European illegally and in violation of European and national legislation. That is why we ask you to commit to abolishing the licence, to stop this work, to stop this permanent violation of European and national law in respect of wind parks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u158	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, with regard to your first question, and in particular with regard to the issue of safeguarding the national action plan for coffee bears, I would like to inform you that a project was drawn up through the European LIFE IP -4 NATURA project coordinated by the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. The draft Ministerial Decision has already been promoted for an opinion in the Commission 'Nature 2000' and its adoption is expected in the next two months. In any case, it shall be made independent of whether it is within a protected area. In this case, it does not fall within a protected area of NATURA within an area declared as a national park, an aesthetic forest, a preserved monument, a wildlife shelter, as stated by the Directorate-General for Forests of the Decentralised Administration of Epirus and Western Macedonia. As far as the subject to which you were referring is concerned, in the region, as we all know and know, the most important electroproductive centre in the country operates. Kozani and Florina can be described as a national energy centre with energy self-efficiency. We have the transition from lignite to the wider region in a more environmentally friendly energy production. It's a transition to a more environmentally friendly path. With regard to the "AGEOLIC AERORRACH" position, it was found that, in addition to the approval of environmental conditions - as the Decentralised Administration responds to us, because it falls under the category of environmental licensing A2, the environmental licensing authority is the Decentralised Administration - the number 46982 has been granted from the 28-4-2021 permit from the Decentralised Administration of Epirus. The permission of the "AIOLIC AERRACHA", as well as the adjacent "GR AEOLIKO FLORINA 10 EU" - because you raised two issues - are placed on the same field of the rejected application "EDF EN GREECE SA & SIA FLORINA" and it is noted that for the first one it has been submitted from 16-11-2020 Environmental Impact Study. The project of the company ‘AIOLIKI AERRACH’ has a decision approving environmental conditions and a permit for establishment. The Municipal Unit of Eagle is at 31,33 of the allowed capacity. Responsibilities, as I have said before, have for the administration of the Western Macedonia Environment and Regional Planning Directorate and all, according to my information, the relevant departments and bodies have given a positive opinion. All the co-responsible services have been consulted positively. No negative views were expressed during the public consultation procedure on the ICM. The final opinion of the Regional Council was unanimously positive. Two changes were made in the course of the original approval, but they also went ahead and were judged. The company was also asked by 26-32021 for the letter of non-governmental organisations. The Agency considered it appropriate to request a specific ecological assessment. I mention this because, regardless of whether it is within, the proximity of the protected area also requires a specific ecological evaluation study, accompanied by a specific ornithological study. The company has responded positively from 27 to 2021, and the consultation process is already under way - I am referring to the second case - and to the collection of opinions. Therefore, for the second case it is pending for judgment. It will also take account of the study that will be carried out, but also of the proposals - opinions of all the institutions and will be evaluated in terms of its outcome. With regard to the non-governmental organisation, all complaints, 1-2-2021 and 8-4-2021, are further than the service’s permits, including emergency carping. The "AIAOLIKO AERRACHI S.A." had completed the licensing process and was in the process of carrying out work, while the "AIOLIKO FLORINA" was extended during the licensing process at the selection stage, as I mentioned before. The answer, therefore, to what you said, is that, for the first time, amendments were started early, the approvals were positive and in many cases unanimous. Two changes were made within the same boundary of the original area and work progressed. For the second time, it has stopped following the appeal of non-governmental organisations. That's all, first of all. I am going to go back to his second-guess. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Minister. You have the floor, Mr Arsenis, for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I'm finally confused. For your Government, are the opinions essential or not? You say 'yes', but we read in the 'Energypress' for Mr Amyras's meeting with the coordinators of the decentralised administrations, where he instructs them not to take account of local and regional opinions, but to proceed with the approval of projects. I put it to myself in the previous time, and he didn't answer. In any event, the Regional Council unanimously adopted on 18 May the immediate cessation of projects for this winding-up. We talked about the silver pelvics, but we didn't talk about the bear and the wolf. You replied to her written question on the timeliness that the action plan for the bear is being established in two months. It's very important. But to remember what he says. It says the action plan, which is a European obligation in Greece, on the risk of alteration and loss, the partitioning of the cafeteria of Bear due to the construction of wind turbines. It also speaks of sounding in the bear from the large wind parks in the construction and operation phase. Really, how do you take into account what is institutionalised in two months' time and have it in your hands for many months? How do you take it into consideration? Will you take this into account in two months? Now, not? Cumulative effects on the rest of the wind have not been examined. As you yourself answered the points in my written question, we had wind that was rejected at the same location and now they come to be two - that is, the same, that is, cut in two - and that is adopted and moves forward. What else are we going to see about the winds? It's like there aren't any laws, Minister! It's like there's no spatial planning, yeah, what you say you'll improve. Well, his bad aspect seems to be as if there is no for your services in the end. Also, what's going on in RAE anyway? The installation permit, which was what gave the green light to start work, was never made public on the RAE map, that is, the one consulted by the citizens to know what is going on in their country. What else is going to happen to the part of the winds? What other law will be violated?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, there are laws, there are regulations, there are regulations, and there are controls, and there are all the stakeholders, the local societies that are expressed for each project in the environmental licensing process in particular. You asked before, whether the opinions of the bodies are binding. If it were binding, no opinions would be called, dear colleague. All the comments made by all the institutions, public opinions, groups, or opinions are taken into account. Everything is evaluated and finally decided. They're not given without any conditions, without any conditions. These are given, where they are finally adopted, and under conditions and under conditions. I said that the area we are talking about is outside the special area and according to the document of the forest office concerned. It's two miles away. But let me tell you something. We are talking about wind parks and photovoltaic parks, about renewable energy sources. I'm not saying we get out of the way, but don't get it fixed up. Let's get out of energy production models that are indeed proven and time-consumingly destroy the environment. There is deflation in many regions like the one we're talking about. So, should we stay where we are now? They need these projects and they need to be put in the right position - I will agree with you - but do not shoot them in general. Know that you have the same sensitivity as you have it and we and those who evaluate and control end up in the best result. Protected areas within them does not mean that everything is forbidden to be protected. Protection doesn't mean total ban everywhere. One-third in our country is protected areas. If we banned everything in there, what would happen? There are, of course, areas that are of absolute protection. There is, of course, no ban on any activity. But there are other areas that are on terms and conditions allowed for activities and wind parks such as the ones we are discussing. I would therefore like to tell you that as far as the first issue concerning the Aerracchia permit is concerned, I said before and when it started - because years have passed - that the municipality was positive and all opinions were positive and developed to build. The two amendments you mentioned until recently were in the same contour. Whether the geometric characteristics of wind turbines have changed but with the same final power are due to the modernization and evolution of wind farms themselves. I don't want to say any more about the Aircraft. And in the part of Florina, I mentioned before that it is pending, the evaluation is evolving and the bodies are expressing their views. Everything will be evaluated and you will be sure that what is needed at the end to protect the landscape and the area through the conditions that will be included, consider it for granted. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Minister. And we are completing today's process with the last time-consuming question for today. It is the second under number 827/31-5-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Ioannina, wet Tsamara is hidden in the papers for cementing.” Mr Arsenis has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we mentioned biodiversity and wind and that we need to do something to save ourselves from climate change. The winds are moving that way, you say. Truly, the first thing we have to do is to protect biodiversity. That is why the UN has declared the decade that we are experiencing, the so critical response to climate collapse, as a decade in the restoration of ecosystems, not the opening of roads in protected areas. But let's go one more step further. If EIA projects are environmentally friendly, they should be standard environmental applications, not in breach of national and European legislation. More specifically for the Chamara wetland. It is a very important wetland that has been recorded and is on the list of wetlands that the Greek Biotopes Centre recently recently has co-operated with the Biodiversity Department and Protected Areas of the Ministry of RIS, your Ministry, and yet it is unreasonable in the study and environmental conditions for the road network that is going on in Gianna, the Ministry of Transport and Transport, in which we also submitted timely and stated unreserved to answer, although the questions were on its issues. The question here is that while the matter is in the Council of State at the moment, expropriations are going to a wetland of great importance, of super-local importance, a wetland of important importance for both neighbouring wetlands and the ecosystem of Ioannina. And at the moment, we call on you to make it self-evident, to protect a significant wetland in the country from cementing the state itself to create this node and, of course, to tell us what your position was at the Ministerial Council when this project was being discussed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too. The Minister has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, with regard to the ring of the city of Ioannina, where you referred, from the node of the Continental Stadium to the Voyanos node, with a total length of four thousand three hundred and six hundred meters, the most is identified as already open roads of the quarry roads of the Ioannina, East and Pambotidas. I would like to tell you that as far as the environmental licensing of the project is concerned - and I will go directly into the substance of the answer - there have been opinions and opinions, as I said in your previous question, by bodies and public organisations: I would like to tell you that first of all the decision of the Ioannite City Council was taken into account by the receipt of the Environmental Impact Study. The management body of Lake Pampotidas has expressed a positive opinion on the construction of the project. It's number 16/12-2019. There is a positive opinion from the Department of Antiquities. It does not consult the Ioannina Forest on this matter, because the areas from which it passes are not subject to the provisions of forestry legislation. The Regional Directorate is also consulted on the ICM that there is no issue with regard to forestry provisions. There is the recommendation from the Environment and Spatial Planning Directorate of Epirus to the Regional Environmental Licensing Board with a positive opinion on the implementation of the project. There is the document of the Epirus Waters Directorate with a positive opinion on conditionality for the implementation of the project. There is a decision of the Regional Authority Council with a unanimous positive opinion on the implementation of the project on 28-5-2019. Above all, because I have referred to permits, there is the decision of the Committee on the Environment and Development of Epirus by consensus, under terms and conditions, on the implementation of the project. There is the decision of the City Council of Ioannis, with a positive opinion on the implementation of the project. I've read a lot of opinions. They're positive and some conditional but positive. As far as the area you are talking about is not specifically about the protection of the species of third parties. However, it is included with other wetlands and the area you are discussing. I have here the maps and I will refer you to the Environmental Terms Approval Decision, which shows the location of the project, shows the boundaries of the protected area, shows the wetlands and habitats where the Macedonian third party is developing. The closest of everyone compared to the project is in two miles. And within them, the location of the area you're referring to is reflected. Therefore, it has been taken into account and under no circumstances has there been any gap in the assessment of the study, and finally, it has been taken into account by all the actors I mentioned so that they can reach the approval and construction of the project. But I'm going to continue in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, first of all, let us say that at the moment the people have been up against the bulldozers, as, after a document from your Ministry, Mr. Dinotopoulos, who actually says that a special ecological assessment is not required, the court has decided that the project can go without insurance measures. But let's go to our question. You said that they were positive opinions. Really, if it were negative, would it affect you? Because, for example, in Samothrace's winds are all negative. And while we had your predecessor, Mr Economou, saying that it means that this will be rejected, Mr Amyras came and told us that negative opinions do not bind. Do only the positive ones commit you? Secondly, because you're saying positive things, and you said some of them have asterisks, do you know what an asterisks are all about? Samara's wetland. What does the opinion of the management body of Lake Pambotidas say? That other, alternatives to engraving the critical last five hundred meters of road for the rest of the work in the lake should be considered, but these five hundred last measures where Samaras wetland is will bring about irreversible destruction of the wetland. In the study of the Pompotida Lake Management Body, in cooperation with the University of Ioannina biological applications and technologies, it was found that Samara's wetland not included in the study could have a beneficial effect on the substitution actions of degraded wetlands, as well as the creation of new ones, on the population situation of ambulance species, as well as on the overall biodiversity situation of the respective areas. These are the opinions of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and Let us remind you here, however, that you approved the environmental impact study, which even the previous government had rejected following a decision by the Citizens' Co-rapporteur. And you adopted it as it is, as a new one, which in itself really needs an answer. We would really like, as long as we can, to save this wetland which, based on scientists, is particularly important, for both third parties and other host species, as well as for surrounding wetlands. It is something worthy of Yannina, which, if anything, with the latest housing development and development in recent years, has lost many such small aquatic habitats. This is a protected aquatic habitat in the scientific lists and must be protected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u170	Minister, you have the floor to close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, you said something before, because I said that the opinions on this project were positive. All evaluations, positive and negative, are evaluated because they are opinions. But it is another climate for everyone to be positive - I think you understand it - and for everyone to be negative. In the second case it would like even more attention and control in evaluation and in the final decision. However, opinions are not binding on anyone, so they are called opinions, but they are heard by everyone, and they must be taken into account, because mistakes may have been made, and there are issues which have not been dealt with. That is the reason for opinions and consultation. If data have not been evaluated, they should be evaluated through the institutions, social and institutional, on each subject, as for this particular issue. The Macedonian third party has five sub-regions in the entire wetland and in the protected area where it develops. As I said before, all these sub-regions have been taken into account for its protection and have been assessed taking all the comments into account. And because I referred to the decision to approve environmental conditions, these are on the map on page 26 and 27 of the 36 that together with the complement concern the decision to approve environmental conditions. The position here is also illustrated in relation to the study that has been carried out, which you have also referred to. If you match what is seen in GDP and in the university study you will see that the sub-region you mentioned is included in the space. In any case, we are talking about sensitive areas and species that we must protect. This is why a specific evaluation by means of a specific study on the protection of these species in such cases is necessary, as has been done and evaluated. I would like to say to you in conclusion, respecting your sensitivity, because I have the honour of being with you in many questions on environmental protection issues, to know that the same sensitivity you have seen, and I always listen to your comments. And if there are mistakes, that is why yours is being raised and we are here to correct them and any intervention at any level that we can make. We have no cause for any reason, which is not right and institutionally legitimate to accept at any level. I would like to say two words on spatial planning, on renewable energy sources. We hope that by the end of the year it will be ready to come to update, but also to correct gaps or omissions or errors that exist since 2008. And we are together to listen and discuss what needs to be taken into account. I told you last time that the particular circumstances due to COVID - 19 have deprived us of the opportunity to share, consult and listen to positions on these sensitive issues as well and we are discussing them. That is why there has been a delay in planning. So, we're here. We listen carefully to the remarks and - I say again - we have the same sensitivity as you, because environmental protection is a bet not personal, but it is a bet of all of us and we have to win it all together. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-04-S1-commons.u173	With the consent of the House at 15.27 minutes, the sitting on Monday, June 7, 2021, at 14.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
