ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval 23-9-2021, the minutes of the PKK's PKK's PKK's PKK's PKY meeting of Thursday, 23 September 2021, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] (a) 'Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Kingdom of Morocco in the field of Scientific and Technological Research'. (b) ‘Preparation of the ELIXIR Consortium Agreement establishing the European Biological Data Infrastructure in the field of Bioscience (ELIXIR)’ I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on today's topical and urgent question report, let me first announce to the House the current question report on Monday, 27 September, 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 1081/20-9-2021 of the Member of the Messinia of the New Democracy, Pericles Manda, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The establishment of an EHS with a new medical and nursing staff". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question by Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis under No 1060/16-9-2021 is a timely question by SYRIZA's MP, Mr. Nikolaos Igoumenidis, to the Minister for Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The next actions of the Greek side on German compensation on the basis of the Greek Parliament's findings". 3. Under number 1075/20-9-2021, a topical question by the MP Argolidas of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Direct need for the paediatric clinic in the Law of Argolida". 4. The question asked by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece by Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religion on the subject: “The equal treatment of graduates of the Humanities Guidance Group of the school years 2019-2020 and 2020-2021 in the Pan-Hellenic Examinations”. 5. The question, under number 1063/17-9-2021, is a timely question by MP I Athens of Mera25 Mr.Adamopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Serious complaints about the placement of containers by the Municipality of Athens as temporary school rooms of the 153nd and 154th Prefecture of Athens in Patisia". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 1062/17-9-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nicholaos Syrmalenios to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Environmental demand for openness of the smyristry of Naxos". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 1078/20-9-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct measures for the absorption of wine grapes - Support for winegrowers, winemaking and cooperative enterprises". 3. The question by number 1072/20-9-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr Leonidas Stoltides to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Standardisation of the official posts of the former workers of the Hellenic Vehicle Industry (ELVO ABE). 4. Under number 1065/17-9-2021, a topical question by MP A' Eastern Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzidis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Possibility of compensation for firefighting tenants of professional premises'. 5. The Question by SYRIZA MP Johns - Progressive Alliance Mr.Meropis Jufis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Keeping and protection of the aesthetic forest of Ioannina'. 6. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Thessaloniki, indirect privatisation of water supply and sewerage". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under number 1076/20-9-2021, a topical question by the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Elizabeth (Bettis) Scooter to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “The Catalan farmers of Pierre are being tried hard. Their support is necessary.’ 8. The Question No 1077/20-9-2021 by MP Larisa of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, entitled 'January - A Year after the Report'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 8108/19-7-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Drama - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Continued degradation and subsistence of Drama Hospital in medical and nursing staff - Government unwillingness for effective support - Award of cleanliness to contractors - Merger plans and abolition of hospital units and clinics". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The report by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, entitled "The review of the exclusion of radiology laboratories from the responsibility of operating hybrid imaging systems". 3. The question and application under number 8403/682/2-8-2021 by MP B2' West Athens Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The irrigation to private individuals and the account to farmers". 4. The question under number 8432/686/4-8-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The infringement of legality and non-transparent procedures against the public interest in the Solid Waste Management Agency (VATSA) of the Ionian Islands shall continue. 5. The question by No 78880/8-7-2021 of SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "What progress has been made on water projects in Thessaly?" Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the debate on the topical and urgent question report scheduled for today. In a written document, the Secretary of Government informs the House that three questions will be discussed and the following questions will not be discussed: The fourth under number 1070/20-9-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "From Eye to Evia. The refusal to implement the proposals of the Gondamer finding on the restructuring of forest fire-fighting is criminalised." The first under number 1067/17-9-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Papapas, Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "The N.D. "frozen" the great works in Thessalonica and today it reopenes them. Large delays and high costs for taxpayers." The second, with number 1074/20-9-2021, is a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Evaluation of the airport "N. Kazantzakis’ for the benefit of local society’. The third under number 1071/20-9-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Elias Arseni to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Requirement of the voluntary fire extinguisher movement and misuse of fire extinguisher volunteers in the House". The first question with number 7382-17-2021 of the SYRIZA Members' circle of petitions and questions - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Saraciotis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Determination of Fthiotida through the non-implementation of a series of routes on its rail network - characteristic examples of the residual operation in Bralo, Molo, Stylis". So we begin with the second debate under number 1057/13-9-2021 on the first-round question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Direct resolution on the movement of students in the fire-fighting areas". The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas. Here, Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Minister, I would like to tell you on a matter which is not current - it is true that so far we have not solved it - and it has to do with why we say that the province is devastated. It is very simple and the governments have so far proved that they have not been able to deal with it. I will tell you two specific examples that in the fire-fighting areas this problem is exacerbating. A child who has to go to one of the few municipal schools in Gortini, in Neochori, must each day make twenty kilometers. We say 20 kilometers, but it's 20 to go and 20 to come back, that is forty. But his mother or father, who's taking him, will do another forty, because he's not sitting in school, he'll go back home and come back. The state tells him of this man who lives in this village, who fights to keep him, who wants his child to study, all the time to give him 200 euros. So we don't have schools and we tell him this man to give him 200 euros to bring his child back. Let me tell you another example, because here we will either change it or we will simply disappoint all these few children who are staying there. It's over at the Contovazana High for reasons that have to do with teachers, I understand all that. This kid has to go to another high school. The nearest high school he could go to Trojana, eighty kilometers, Minister. The child wakes up 5: 15 to reach 8: 30. He was going to another school closer. Mr. Lanis Konstantinos of Dimitrios, who is located in Sofia Kalavryton and is twenty kilometers away, that is, twenty and twenty forty. Parents will go eighty miles again. He doesn't even go a cab in the previous one because he's a dirt road. So he's told to go by bus. That kid's gonna wake up at five o'clock. Listen to this to understand, because nobody's staying in the villages. There'll be more than sixty-year-olds left. The periphery tells him, Minister, that it gives him a seven-euro grant. Before you answer - I don't know what you've been told - I'm asking you this: Are we going to change that? There are few children left in the district. There aren't thousands of kids. These people will help them, even those who have stayed, not to be troubled and not to feel that the state has forgotten them? They don't have training, they don't have doctors. If they can't take their kids with a taxi to school, then why should we keep the district? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u4	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. I would also like to thank Mr Constantinople for raising a broader issue, which is about the demographic development in our country, the desertification of the countryside and the deforestation of school units, precisely because of the lack of pupils. Let me return to my dentistry, Mr Constantinople, on the wider political issue you are addressing, but in my prototype I would like to answer the core of the two questions you have raised about the completeness of my answer. First of all, the responsibility for planning and implementing the provision of a public school transport service lies with the regions which apply the rules laid down in the Regulation. 50025/2018 Joint Ministerial Decision of the Ministers for the Interior, Education and Religious Affairs, Economic and Infrastructure and Transport. For our part, we support the regions for exercising this competence, through the allocation of funds from central independent resources. A total of EUR 175 million is planned in the year 2021. All in all, we're talking about a big budget. We'll see his distribution then in his denture. With regard to the individual issues you have raised, I will tell you what measures we have taken to transfer the students of the fire-fighting areas. I would like to say to you that, at the beginning of the school year 2021-2022, pupils are being transported to the fire-fighting areas: first, by leased means of transport, buses and taxis. Secondly, with a free student card available on a regular basis to and from the school units during the hours spent by the students. Thirdly, by means of the regional and local authorities themselves, since the vehicles they have can be used for this purpose. Fourthly, by the same means of parents or guardians, when the competitive procedures were atrocious, while paying compensation of EUR 0.35 per kilometre to the school unit, for the days of the student's attendance at school. The total allowance may not exceed EUR 1,500 per student per school year. Fifth, with a grant of EUR 85 per month in the case of the student's establishment at another place near his school, exclusively for the purpose of attending that school. The choice between these depends on a variety of factors which are initially considered by the relevant regional directorates and the final choice of the means of transport is in line with the wishes of both parents and pupils. Therefore, Mr Constantinople, there are various alternatives to the transport of students in the fire-fighting areas. What we wanted to achieve this year specifically was to simplify the award procedure, and that is what we have done. I shall mention, for example, the provisions of Article 60 of Law 4821/2021, which regulates a number of issues relating to the award of the school transport project, in order, firstly, to allow for the timely start of the transport project at the beginning of the new school year and, secondly, to speed up the competitive procedures that in some cases led to infertile routes and long delays. In particular, the possibility of extending the contracts in force on 30-6-2021, as well as the possibility for regions to follow the negotiation process in accordance with Article 32 of Law 4412/2016, has been established where specific conditions specified in the existing provisions are met. As far as the second part of your question is concerned, I shall submit to the Minutes the reply from the Peloponnese Region and, for example, that, according to the document, the work is expected to be completed by 15-10-2021, i.e. relatively soon. On the issue of security, which you have also raised in your question, we all agree that this issue is unnegotiable. The roads must be open and the pupils' transit must be done safely. The relevant tiles of the regions and municipalities are working on it and the rehabilitation procedures will be completed soon. I would also like to assure you once again that we will continue to support the regions, particularly in the field of the restoration of damage to the fire-fighting areas. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u6	Mr. Constantinople, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u7	Minister, I understand how the answers are made. However, there is one key issue here. Do you think that with this answer the state will give any solution to these students? I can't believe it. I will inform you of what the region will do. This kid in olive oil is the only kid in the F grade in New York City. I will try to analyse what has been said. There's nothing to change about 200 euros. In other words, in a mother who is going to go to school in the morning 20 kilometers, she will return to her home or to her work, another 20 kilometers, she will return at noon twenty kilometers and twenty miles in the afternoon to return, so eighty kilometers a day, give her 200 euros. The state wants that? Does the state want to support this student or is there any other child left to support him with this data? I don't believe it. And you don't want it either. That's why it's of great value to look into it a little longer and come back after twenty days. And it's not just about Arcadia. It's for all prefectures. Minister, I understand what you say about the region. The regional authorities must also show a sensitivity. Maybe they don't know. I'm a good-for-all man. I am always well-qualified - and with the previous government now - on these issues. We want this to end. Look for it a little longer and come in fifteen, twenty days to deal with it in total. Minister, it is little money for all of Greece. This is good for you too, too, it is good for me, especially, but it is good for these people who are concerned with this issue, who are waking up their kids from 5.00 in the morning to go from Vidiaki to Tropia. This can't be! We're in 2021! Let's get a taxi on these kids. If your children, my kids, who go to high school, wake up at 5:00 in the morning and go to school at 8:30, what lesson will they do next? My father, who was in a poor settlement in Arcadia, didn't take that long. He had a high school nearby in Daphne Calabryton, and he went at least half an hour on foot. We've been talking for three hours. Minister, sometimes matters are not financial, and you know that. Please - I believe you will do so and I will return with this question again - find two, three small solutions with which you will give them the power to say that it is worth staying in our villages. I'm telling you. And it won't just be for Arcadia, it will be for all of Greece. I, after reading your answer well and I see what the region will say to these people - if they become aware, how exactly it will be - will be back shortly, as I do with all my questions, because I think it is worth making a result. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President, and thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u8	Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Firstly, on the issue of demographics, I think that after many years the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has set up a framework for strengthening the entire grid, which could help to remove tragic phenomena that we have seen in recent decades. I note, for example, the direct support to new couples who have a child, the full coverage of the needs of families in nursery schools - as demonstrated this year - by combining money from the European Union and direct transfers from the state budget to all the families who applied for a nursery post, as well as the new institution of the 'Dadads of Neighbourhood'. All of these are measures which show that a serious problem, such as demographics, needs to be tackled and no longer hide it under the carpet. As far as the transport of students is concerned, let me also say from my personal experience for many years in the General Accounting Office of the State that it is not one of the easy things to do with the transfer of students. It has dealt with too many times, too, with later legitimisation of expenditure, with too many arrangements between the regions in many areas of the country. And let me say that for this very reason, this issue will be dealt with - as has rightly been pointed out - within the framework of - I have already committed myself to local government and grade I and II - the revision of the Central Independents of Resources - in 2022 will be such a year - which we will see, firstly, the imbalances, the settlement of these sums, which must be directed, in the right way - to say so, but also the rational increase in their overall budget for the Central Self-government, so that self-government will gradually begin to make up the lost ground that it had in the decades of the crisis. It is with great pleasure that we then come back and see all the issues you are addressing. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u10	Follow the first question under number 1061/16-9-2021 of the First Cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The mandatoryity of collective agreements helps to strengthen the collective redress of workers for better working conditions, preventing their negotiating power from weakening." Mr Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. Obviously you agree with the title of the timely question. I say it because I know you well! Minister, we are not going well at all, and we have lost Mr Hatzidakis, and obviously or perhaps you dominate others' responsibilities. Please take note of three issues relating to the question. Over two hundred and fifty workers cannot receive the seasonal allowance because they do not complete the trademarks because of a pandemic. Do you know that the markings of the 2020 suspensions do not appear anywhere? Sounds simple for people who don't know. But what will Mr Hatzidakis say to those who are waiting for these marks, Minister, to retire? Cancer workers have left without medical treatment. Workers are unable to get the reception allowance, and they are unable to register their children at the nursery stations. The HR - remember, Minister, you had handled it - worked after two years, just last Monday. Is this the social state that Mr. Mitsotakis is evangelizing? Two and a half thousand unpaid pensions have been received in Heraklion, Minister, and they have arrived - listen! - Fifteen and a half thousand! A few days ago, however, you brought a photographic cassette service device which also involved insurance contributions from employees. And don't tell me what this is all about. These are problems of three hundred thousand workers, Minister, in food - tourism, which you are still burdening them by not declaring contracts compulsory. Minister, you know there are many cases where workers and employers agree in terms of compulsoryity and you do not have to declare contracts compulsory. I would like to believe that you understand the importance of proclaiming the compulsory nature of collective agreements. We are clearly talking, Minister, about strengthening the collective bargaining of workers for better working conditions and preventing any possible weakening of their negotiating power. It should be noted that the Hotel Officers' Association has submitted from 5-5-2021 an official request to declare the contract as compulsory, both to the Ministry of Labour and to the relevant Secretariat-General. I shall submit these documents in the Minutes. Likewise, Minister, the guides of tourist buses have submitted a request from 29-6-2021 asking for it to be declared from 25-5-2021 generally compulsory for all drivers of tourist buses that provide their services to Crete. These requests are indeed accompanied by a documentation of the impact of the extension of the collective labour agreement on competitiveness and employment. Because you know what it means to you personally in collective agreements, I would like you to tell me: Do you intend to declare it from 13-4-20221 a local collective labour agreement on the conditions of pay and work for workers in hotel businesses in Heraklion as generally compulsory? Do you intend to declare it from 25-5-2021 a collective labour contract for guides to tourist buses as generally compulsory? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Chacloglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vardakis, first of all, I would like to point out that the staff of Heraklion already have a collective sectoral contract, as it does all over the country, which covers them since 16 June and which is generally compulsory not only for the hotel business in the county, but for all the hotel businesses in the country. The application for the extension of a collective labour contract and in this case the local staff of Heraklion, as defined by the law, is dealt with by the relevant directorate of the Ministry of Labour. Its findings are then sent to the High Labour Council and this in turn, in order to decide on the extension of their contract, must take into account three things which are very important. The first is the application for extension. The second, which is the most important of all, is the documented confirmation of the Ministry's competent department that collective regulation already commits employers who employ more than 50% of the employees in the industry or occupation. This is the crucial element of the extension process and I will come back to it later. The third is the conclusion of the consultations of the parties to the Higher Labour Council on the need for expansion. Following this procedure, the Higher Labour Council sends the Minister's suggestion and he may, in turn, declare the contract compulsory. Mr Vardakis, in this particular case of the Heraklion Prefecture, while the application for the extension of the contract was made jointly by the Association of Officials of the Prefecture of Heraklion and the Association of Hotels in Heraklion, so far the Association of Hotels has not sent a register with its members, with their name and with their LNG. Twice it has bothered them - and I will give them the information - to carry out the relevant inspection by the Ministry of Labour in order to determine whether the members of the nominated hotel association in the county actually employ more than 50% of the workers in the sector. As the relevant director of the Ministry informed us twice - on 15 June and 6 July - the data concerning the register of employers who are members of the Union of Hoteliers in Heraklion, but have so far not received a reply. These are the real facts. However, without control of the register of employers' members, as provided for by the law, it cannot be established whether it covers more than 50% of workers in the industry. Also, as I said before, what you mentioned about the lack of collective bargaining in the hotels in Heraklion is not the case. There is the sectoral agreement, which was deemed compulsory by the Minister of Labour's decision of 16 June, and which has been in force since that day. This sectoral agreement provides for basic wages ranging from EUR 792 to EUR 863, depending on the skills of the employees. In any case, the Ministry's General Secretariat for Work continues to be in contact with the Hotel Association of Heraklion, in order to receive the business register to proceed with the process. If this happens in the next few days, it will be discussed at the next meeting of the Higher Labour Council. The major issue here is that the gap that has existed for years in our legislation regarding the absence of registers of employers' and workers' trade unions has led us to not know how many employees each employer has. This issue was resolved by the recent legislation of No 4808/21 on labour protection. In fact, just a week ago, on 16 September more specifically, the relevant Ministerial Decision was adopted on the establishment of an Electronic Register of Trade Unions of Workers and Employers in the ERGAN system. Such questions will therefore be answered immediately and without delay. In your second question, which concerns the extension of the collective contract of drivers of the tourist buses of Crete, I will respond to my second language. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u14	Mr Vardakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am presenting in Minutes the request of tourist bus drivers on 29 June 2021. I am also presenting the hotel officials and the Union Hoteliers of Heraklion - the joint request - with a date of 19-4-2021. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Socrates Vardakis, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm not going to get into the litigation. We all know and how they handle collective agreements and how the AACC meets. It's your responsibility. I would like to ask you in particular tomorrow morning to see the evidence. The evidence is there. And I'll tell you, to be clear. From 2018 and 2019, nothing has changed in this respect. The previous government, the previous Ministry of Labour with this information, declared both contracts compulsory, and the hotel officials and the local and regional and tourist bus drivers, so they can find a little step on their feet, Minister. Do you know what's going on today? I mentioned four - five problems relating to the same category of workers. And we had to bend to these problems, see with real vigilance and actually this problem. He should have met the AACC and declared the contracts compulsory. It should be noted - not to forget - that contracts, Minister, are biennial. So forcedness will also apply next year and people will step on their feet. Anyway, this year's over. Do we still have a month? Again slavery and exploitation, Minister. So that's what we need to make of it in 2022, which is where the conventions apply, and the sectoral and local ones, because they're two-way. There was a huge struggle to sign the sectoral contract and even slowly the employers showed some sensitivity that the Ministry does not show today. And as a sensitivity to employers, I mean that after a celebration they signed a collective agreement, the local one. So I'm telling you that the evidence exists and it's the same. It doesn't change the number, it doesn't minimize or grow. I know you were specifically given the drivers of the tourist buses wrong elements. I heard a number, nine hundred drivers. Where did they find them to get that result? The guides to Crete - because it is pancrite the union - are about three hundred fifty. They therefore substantiate the requirements of the contract. And I close, Minister, and thank you, Mr President, for this. I would ask you very much, because it is a major issue, not to do what happened yesterday. Don't let the workers come back to the streets. Yesterday, the distributors actually showed you the writing samples. It's not the same thing as the hotel staff. Twenty thousand hotel workers are in Crete, Minister. Proclaim the contracts compulsory, then, to end this story. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u16	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Vardakis, I mentioned it in my prototype. The main thing in the process of extending a collective labour contract is the numerical condition of the law, i.e. employers who are bound by the contract to employ half or more of the workers in the industry. I think the legislator has set this criterion very wisely. Otherwise, there is always a danger - and you know that very well - that a few large and powerful employers actually impose the rules on a large number of small businesses, so that small marginal enterprises are forced to stop their operation or try to survive by working uninsured work. With the recent Law 4808/2021, the services of the Ministry of Labour will be able to have direct access to the registers of trade unions of employers and employees in January 2022, and can be established directly if an employer organisation employs more than 50% of the employees as a professional sector, in this case the employees of Heraklion Prefecture. Regarding the request of the Association of Guides to Tourist Bus of Crete "The ERMIS" to extend the collective labour contract, accompanied by the report on the impact of the extension, the necessary information on the number of workers employed by the members of the respective employer organisation reached the Ministry with a great delay. You referred to the wrong evidence. Wrong evidence of who? The employers? The way you told me, if I understood well, the workers in the industry. But of the workers we draw them directly from the 'ERGAN' system. Where's the evidence wrong there? The processing in question has been completed and the request has already been put forward to the Higher Labour Council. This is where it is expected to be discussed in the near future and the relevant opinion will come out. In any case, since January 2022, with the operation of the Register of Trade Unions for Workers and Employers' Organisations, the procedures laid down in the Law on the extension of collective agreements are expected to be greatly shortened. In accordance with the Ministerial Decision, the competent and authorised representatives of the Ministry of Labour will be given the right to permanent classified entry on the register platform in order to enable data to be collected for the performance of their legal powers, as is, for example, the identification of the number of members of the employer organisation, thereby giving an immediate solution to this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u18	We will conclude with the third under number 105/15-9-2021, a top-level question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr. Christos Katsotis, to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To hold general meetings of unions by living". Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me welcome the mass universal struggle of the workers in the 'e-FOD', which led to their first victory over a strong group, but also to the government, which attempted to implement the partner's new form of exploitation, of course the claim of the groups that the government accepted and imprinted it under the Hatzidakis Act under Article 69. Workers today are undertaking a 24-hour strike demanding that their demands be met, that they are not at ease, because they know that the group will not stop moving forward, their choices. So, Minister, with mass struggles the working class will cancel this abortion law, as it did with Article 69. Of course, every article in the bill is a matter of discussion and the working class through its struggles will go on overthrowing it. The question we are asking relates to workers' struggles. The Government, by means of a series of joint ministerial decisions, retains the unacceptable prohibition of general meetings of associations by living, of those who have a register of over 50 members, on the pretext of exceptional measures to protect public health from the coronary. This is a real mockery since, at the same time, the government allows workers to conspire hundreds of large factories and businesses without any health and safety measures, and it also allows hundreds of people to assemble in urban transport, in boats and planes, and allows a massive presence of fans in the struggles of the major business AOCs, with a ceiling of twenty-five thousand people and eight thousand people in closed fields, allowing a limit of 5% incompatibility with a simple self-test statement. Allows up to four hundred and twenty customers to be present in entertainment or catering shops. All this confirms that the ban on the holding by living of the general assemblies of trade unions is being carried out with a real aim of limiting trade union activity, their mass collective democratic operation and not the measures to protect public health. We ask, Minister, if you intend to take measures to immediately abolish this joint ministerial decision and allow workers' unions to exercise their trade union activity without hindrance and to hold general meetings by living with all the necessary measures to protect public health and their members, who know and care better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Chacloglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, you will allow me to begin with one comment. Reading the text of your question gives me a strong impression that you are willingly trying to distort certain situations in order to talk about allegedly limiting your trade union activity. Nothing but reality. Indeed, in the context of the exceptional and, obviously, temporary measures taken to limit the proliferation of the coronary, there are also measures relating to trade unions, such as elections or general assemblies, as supreme reasons for public health are temporarily restricting the conditions of freedom. In particular, as you have said in your question, there is the limit of 50 members registered under which elections of elected representatives and administrative bodies, as well as general meetings, are held by living, in accordance with the protocol on the holding of the conferences, i.e. with all the limitations you mentioned earlier. But if the members who are registered are over a hundred and fifty, then these procedures are being carried out - they have not been stopped - by digital means and in my dentistry I will give you concrete examples. In this decision, of course, there is also an exception to the electoral procedures which have already been initiated by natural or schizophrenic vote, and for which safety protocols have been submitted in this respect. From the above, you realise that there is no restriction of trade union activity. I'd say the opposite. Trade union action is not simply limited, but it allows even more workers who may not participate for any reason by living in their associations' procedures to participate online. In our country, trade union freedom is a fundamental right, a constitutionally guaranteed right. The Constitution stipulates in Article 23 that ‘the State shall take appropriate measures to ensure trade union freedom and the unrestricted exercise of the rights associated with it, against any infringement of them’, to stress this, ‘within the limits of the law’. At the same time, the defence of trade liberties stems from Article 11.1 of the European Convention on Human Rights and from Article 23.4 of the United Nations Declaration on Human Rights. Like all constitutionally regulated rights, trade union freedom is not out of control, but can be restricted for reasons of public interest. It is what I said earlier, 'within the limits of the law', as stated in the Constitution. In this case, one cannot overlook the threat to public health. After all, the measures taken were absolutely necessary and appropriate. In addition, I would like to remind you that the recent law passed in May on the protection of work, in Article 86, also provides for the right to remote participation of the members of trade unions. So it becomes compulsory to participate and vote on the members of the organization, not only in a physical presence but also in a distance. The same provisions also provide for the obligation for all organisations to provide, in their statutes, for ways of electronic participation in terms of transparency and confidentiality of voting. As far as the vote is concerned, the trade unions must ensure the identity of the voters, whether the vote is by electronic means or by a physical presence. In order to facilitate this, the Ministry of Labour can make the software available to organisations free of charge. Mr Katsotis, the conclusion from the above is that trade union activity is not simply limited, but facilitated, modernised and enlarged. There are more opportunities to participate, ensuring both trade union freedom and the exercise of workers' trade union rights, as required by the Constitution and the European Convention on Human Rights. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u22	Mr Katsotis, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u23	Minister, if the movement did not question the laws that any government makes in this system, we would be far behind, many years back. Does he have the right to question it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u24	It wouldn't be a movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u25	It wouldn't be a movement, exactly. So, as far as the boundaries of the law you're talking about, let it go. Apart from the law, there are the needs of the workers they claim, who are struggling unreservedly against those who lack these needs. The movement, of course, you know very well, the majority of trade unions and, in particular, those who have neglected government and employers' unions, have as a front the measures to protect the health and safety of workers. Workers are exposed to many risks, due to employers' arbitrariness and immunity, which is growing from government tolerance and support from the adaptation of government protection measures to the needs of capitalist operation rather than the health of workers. These organizations have the front in irrationalism, paradoxes and any conspiracy theories, which are supported by various mechanisms and also by the contradictions of the government in relation to pandemic. They stand against darkness, supporting scientific knowledge and all human development. These are the trade unions, Minister. All of this is produced through collective procedures, general assemblies, gatherings, meetings, as provided for in their statutes that you want to get as government, as do employers. There all the problems are discussed, analysed, confronted with thoughts, opinions, becoming diverse ideas. There are positions on developments in every aspect of workers' lives and they finally decide on their own action to guide developments where their needs are met. This function doesn't like it. They don't want her. They consider it dangerous, the system that you serve, and seek to prevent it, to make it difficult, to weaken it, to weaken participation, to live discussion and to strife. The theories of a social corporation, of common interests of workers and business groups are degraded in the live discussion. That is where class exploitation begins, what the worker's position is, there the fraudsters are stopped. That is where class consciousness strengthens, a term for strengthening class struggle. This whole function of the trade unions is treated hostilely by their business groups and governments. Hate doesn't hide, Minister. It was also expressed by the Hatzidakis - Tsakloglou - not to leave you out and complain - of the New Democracy with the anti-government arrangements such as the trade union register you said before. Of course SYRIZA also has his nest dirty, because the issue of compulsoryity is the prerequisite for employers to deposit the register and the regulation of the SYRIZA is understood. The register will therefore be at the disposal of each operator in order to avoid active and active workers. The electronic freckles you said and you also expanded, the electronic vote from far away so no one knows who it is and what it is and what it says, all these are issues that you gave the plate to the employer to hit the movement itself. The anti-operative provisions abolishing the right to strike, which criminalise workers' struggles, are all the claims of capital that we can assure you that they will stay on paper, because the unions will not only discipline, but will strengthen their collective procedures, their lively functioning with the physical presence of their members, to strengthen the struggles to meet the needs of workers, income, health, education, welfare, culture and sport, and any other need created by social development and the lack of this system that is aimed at profit. The prohibition of living interviews by the members of the registries over a hundred and fifty members is such an arrangement that pursues the same objective as the Hatzidakis Act. We therefore call on you to abolish this arrangement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katsotis, it is true that the coronary pandemic has introduced unprecedented conditions for modern societies and unprecedented measures to limit social activities. The aim has been and is evident: limiting the dispersion of the coronary. At the same time, rapid changes in the labour market have come to the surface with apparently the top of the teleworking. Several workers and employers have led to a new model of industrial relations. It was a trend that existed before, but accelerated because of the pandemic. The state's mission and in this case it is to ensure the legality and rights of workers. The provision of the recent labour law, which I mentioned in my prototype, is also in this direction. But most importantly, in this provision, its benefits are not just words of air or wishfulness, and obviously every provision of law proves the success in its implementation. In a similar, though slightly different, framework as I was informed by the press release published last Wednesday on 22 September, the general meeting of the EDPS was held online. The EDPS is not a trade union organisation, but it has proved that the right to remote participation actually gives more opportunities to insured persons and workers. According to the relevant press release issued on 22 September, that is to say, the online general meeting of the EDEAP participated a thousand six hundred and seventy-three insured, directly members, much larger than those of the general meetings held before a living. In fact, some of these members were able to participate for the first time, as they reside outside Attica. Mr Katsotis, what makes you think that this general assembly did not have an exchange of arguments and controversies and that they can only be done when we live up to controversy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u28	Take the House, for example!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u29	Why, before the coronary, was it different? Was this House full of when questions were asked by parliament? Do I live in another world?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u30	I guess you're living!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u31	Obviously, it's not like that, and you know it very well. Also, what you say about electronic voting, because I happen to come from the field of higher education where electronic voting has been in place for years and for trade unions, is doing fine work unnecessarily. No fresco or a number of such things that you mentioned earlier. In practice, therefore, it seems that the possibility of remote participation can lead to greater participation of workers, whether they are vaccinated or not. This is not said in any case to restrict trade union activity. In democracy no right can be exercised unless there is first and foremost freedom and security. We've already been to a second phase of the pandemic where we learn to coexist with the virus. The Ministry of Labour, in fact proving that it guarantees the exercise of trade union rights, but also that it has democratic reflexes in order to adapt to the conditions as they are shaped by the pandemic, is simply applying the health protocols, which, as they currently do, exclude the living of a general assembly of unions with more than one hundred and fifty members. When members are under a hundred and fifty and choose to do by living assembly, they must produce a certificate of vaccination, a negative rapid test or a certificate of illness. I think we will agree that the return to the normality we so generally want, but also to the way in which the general meetings are held, can only be carried out with strict observance of all the protocols and measures, that is to say, the presentation of certificates of vaccination, mass tests and obviously compliance with the protection measures. However, we have been very concerned about this, and this is why, moreover, the terms of office of the management boards of the trade unions have already been extended until 30 October. Let us hope that the conditions will soon allow general meetings to take place in the traditional contractual manner. Moreover, on this issue the Ministry of Labour is in contact with the Ministry of Health so that when health conditions allow it to change the conditions for the general meetings. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u32	Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Before moving on to legislative work, we will be adjourned for a moment. The time is 10.03' and the parliamentary groups are asked to inform the rapporteurs and Parliamentary Representatives at the Chamber on 10.15'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Discussion and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence: 1. ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Republic of Turkey) in relation to the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-missile Defence (IAMD COE Operational MoU)’; 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Creation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic), as well as the Headquarters of the NATO Supreme Allied Transformation Commander in relation to the operational relationship with the Centre for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-Air Force (IAMD COE Functionship MoU)’. The drafts were adopted in the Standing Committee by a majority. They are imported into the House under Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, namely those who object to the ratification of these conventions for five minutes, it is understood - so that I do not then make clarification - for each and every Parliamentary representative - if they so wish, for five minutes - that is to say, a total of ten minutes - and that the President of their parliamentary group will not speak. The vote on both conventions will take place at the end of the debate separately and in the order of business. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u34	The House has agreed. I don't know if anyone in the process wants to take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u35	I, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u36	Here, Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I shall speak on behalf of the Change Movement. As the parliamentary representative is missing, I will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u38	Don't worry about it. I will now say which parties have voted, what reservations they had and what they have voted against. First, we will start with those who are against the conventions or have expressed reservations. The other parties will be able to speak of the rapporteurs or special speakers or the parliamentary representatives - but one - of the parties which agree with the sanctions. I would like to say - and I can see it is the same for both - that New Democracy has voted in favour, that SYRIZA has voted in favour of the Change Movement for both, during the Communist Party of Greece for both sides, the Greek Solution kept for both conventions and for both conventions. So the rapporteur, Mr Dimitrios Haritou, has the floor on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance. As we have said, we will speak uniformly about both conventions, with a cumulative time of five plus five minutes, that is, ten minutes. Here, Mr. Haritou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we had the opportunity during the debate in the Committee on the Rules of Procedure to express our views on the two draft laws we are debating today and to ask key, critical questions, which are directly linked to the two memorandums of understanding and to the geopolitical changes that are taking place internationally in our wider region, as well as the policies being pursued on the part of the Government. To remind you, the first Memorandum of Understanding within NATO is between the Ministry of National Defence of our country and the respective Republic of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Romania and the Turkish Republic and is a memorandum on the establishment, administration and operation of a centre of excellence for integrated anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence. This centre, known as its establishment, has been established in Chania Crete and has already been certified as NATO Centre of Excellence. The second Memorandum of Understanding determines the operational relationship between the High Authority General and the participating five states with regard to the Centre of Excellence. Ladies and gentlemen, we are not extinguished our positive attitude to the first stage in which these initiatives were launched, and we are also carefully following the actions taken on your part until we get to the two draft laws that we are debating today. We are aware, ladies and gentlemen, of the content of the two separate memorandums of understanding, which in the former defines the responsibilities of the centre of excellence, in particular, the provision of know-how, support and reinforcement of the possibilities of integrated anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence for the benefit of NATO and, of course, of the support countries and the partners, that issues relating to the organisation, structure, operation, management of the centre are regulated, as well as issues of involvement in the representation of the participants, of the way decisions are made, but also issues of an economic and legal nature and of security, as regards the functioning of the centre, while the second memorandum of understanding identifies the important role of the centre in improving NATO's operational capabilities, as well as its obligation to respect all NATO policies and regulations. In this functional relationship between the centre of excellence and NATO decisive and decisive is the role of the headquarters in all issues. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, for our part, and the two memoranda of understanding, we can only understand them within the framework of the binding commitments made by our country towards NATO, without in any way implying that we are underestimating the importance of these moves on the part of our country or, of course, that we do not care about the wider dimensions of such initiatives. For SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance the ratification of these conventions is not a matter of routine or of low political importance. However, we were expecting a similar attitude during the debate in committee on the part of the government, but unfortunately we were disproved because the Minister either answered our reasonable questions and the concerns we expressed or those he said giggling them. We have heard a peculiar theory of the rights we have within the alliance. The needs of NATO in the context of its transformation, such as the agreements we are discussing today, for you are rights for which we must enter into continuous competition in order to prevent others, to give them all independently if there is a benefit to our national interests or if difficulties arise in the future. And it seems, gentlemen, that, in order to exercise this supposed right, the Greek people will pay for it. One million euros is needed for the establishment of the centre of excellence and it almost reaches 400,000 euros per year for the years that the centre operates, as at least the report of the General Accounting Office of the State says, at a time when our country is already suffering from a high rate of spending on NATO. We are concerned, gentlemen, because we are listening to you exaggerating the possibilities created by agreements in relation to our national interests, and you are undermining the difficulties or risks that may arise. We are concerned, gentlemen, because you are trying to cover behind these initiatives the serious deficits in your defence and foreign policy that you are currently pursuing, a policy with a torque back to atlantism, in a policy that says yes to everything without consideration. So the questions we raised during the debate in committee continue to apply and expect convincing answers, such as where, for example, the finding in the explanatory statement that such moves are being promoted, the search for defence diplomacy or much more, as our foreign policy says, is being met. You didn't answer and we're reinstated. In fact, when we are at a time when we seem to be intensified by the challenges of the neighbour. Let me remind you that almost forty-eight hours have passed and refuse to reply to reports mentioning a violation of our territorial waters by a Turkish warship. It is said to have moved in two and a half nautical miles from the coast of Crete, while systematically harassing a research ship within the Greek EEZ. Not to remind you of what happened with "Orutch Race" during the summer in our territorial waters. We will also insist on other crucial issues, in order to clarify them, because such moves, such agreements, in the face of the major geopolitical changes that are taking place, must be taken into account that they are in fact part of the competition of the major powers and, above all, require a multi-dimensional foreign policy, which is the great deficit of your own policy. Can we not tackle our national issues without integrating them into the general geopolitical chess board, even after the latest initiatives taken by the United States of America in the Pacific, without moving as a country towards strengthening Europe's strategic autonomy towards NATO and the United States? Is it still wondering what strategy is there or what mission of the Patriot anti-aircraft systems in Saudi Arabia, which goes beyond the legitimate effort to strengthen our cooperation with important countries such as Saudi Arabia? What is our point of involvement for the first time in military conflict outside the country's borders, without a decision from any international organization, without a debate and approval here in the House, in conditions of transparency, so that there are no shadows and famous scandal smells? You are committing, gentlemen, a strategic error. Our country must be a factor of stability, peace and cooperation in the wider region. Ladies and gentlemen, the question we have asked remains, which makes reference to the rapporteur's report on the importance of the centre of excellence, namely that it will contribute to the initial formulation of the texts, supporting our national position on airspace control issues. I repeat: in the initial configuration of the positions. Clear it up. What do you mean when you say "original"? So, in the final configuration of the positions, national positions can be called into question? Ladies and gentlemen, with the one-dimensional orientation that you are following, within the climate of atlantism, in the perception that you have accepted, Greece is its advanced prison, a concept that belongs to another historical period and to other international powers, unfortunately, you cannot defend the interests of the country. And so, gentlemen, you are doing all the policies you are conducting. Not only are you harming the interests of the majority of society, but you are undermining the public property and the prospect of this place. The disgusting even criminal manipulation to privatize PPC will bring not only direct harm to consumers, but also long-term to the economy of the place. You have, gentlemen, moved on to the sale of a public enterprise, at the time of the economic crisis, whose course for decades has been intertwined with the development and development of this place. But you should be aware, gentlemen, that this decision is the beginning of the end. Ladies and gentlemen, the upgrading of our country's relations with the United States presupposes a multidimensional foreign policy, reciprocity of interests, based solely on our national laws. Such a policy followed the period of SYRIZA's governance and it is necessary for such a policy that the country returns as soon as possible. Despite the fact that there have not been - I will repeat - convincing responses from the government, we will stand positively against both memoranda of understanding, but retaining in full the serious reservations we have expressed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u40	And we thank Mr. Haritou. On behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Nicholas Papanastassis has the floor on behalf of the Group of the Party of European Socialists.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Listening to SYRIZA's rapporteur, who just completed his introduction, I remembered the old joke: "I turn the flash left and turn right". This has brought me relief in mind. At the meeting of the committee which was preceded by the Minister, the debate asked to be confined to the memoranda and centres of excellence. Obviously, Minister, you have expressed your desires. Be sure that in any case the Communist Party of Greece will not do you the favor and this is because you deliberately hide that the centre of excellence is a link added to the dangerous chain of Greece's involvement in the imperialist designs, an involvement that SYRIZA and KINAL agrees with and the other parties that used as a pretext to various secondary issues, such as exchanges or infrastructure costs. On behalf of the Minister, Turkey's participation in the centre of excellence was nicely sought. He used claims that have absolutely no basis. At the time you advertise and applaud Turkish participation in this centre, the Turkish state shows power in Crete and presents the known claims to the detriment of the sovereign rights of Greek islands. This center set up in Chania, what's he going to talk about? Is there a nuclear threat from Turkey to Greece, yes or no? What's this center going to talk about this threat? Is he going to analyze it with the Turkish participants? You allegedly put extortional dilemmas on catastrophic effects that would come if this centre were to go to the neighbouring country's responsibility. Lies, too, inconsistently. You deliberately reject the fact that, in the disputes between the borders and the sovereign rights of Greece on the part of Turkey, neither the European headquarters nor the existing aggressive bases nor, of course, the NATO warfighting fleets in the Aegean Sea have been prevented. So your argument is from the evil and deliberately misleading. What is, however, dominating your intentions and every day that passes it is becoming more and more clear, is the unavoidable implementation of natonic aggressive plans. You are giving it all to NATO and the European Union. You have given bases, you are participating in imperialistic missions abroad, military exercises to surround Russia, in alliances involving the country in aggressive Israel's plans, in the Middle East. You gave Patriot missiles to Saudi Arabia. You are giving 3.82% of the country's GDP, i.e. 6.6 billion for 2021 for naval expenditure, above - and you are reluctant to do so - the 2% demanding blackmail by NATO. You give it all to the Americans and NATO, whatever they ask. So who do you give them to? Was it not that the terrorist paramilitary operation of the 'Red Provia', in cooperation with governments that preceded your own, which represented those interests of the bourgeoisie, also, in the 1950s? They didn't plan and organize and backed - the Americans I'm talking about - to set up the seven-year-old junta of '67? Did they not plan the coup against Makarios, and did the colonists do so in order to give the pretext for the Turkish intervention on the island? These people's killers, because where they've set foot, blood, misery and outrage have brought, are you proclaiming them as the guarantors of the free world? There are others in here. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, I'm talking to you. You accept the dirty role of the US and NATO, but as a fan of their realistic policy, you are falsifying something about exchanges. Let us see the exchanges from the insurmountable American reluctance of all the governments to date, neither with the exception of yours. The junta, the 'attiles', the Imia, the Madrid agreement that opened the Aegean door in Turkey, the tolerance - if not the encouragement - of Turkish aggression, the conversion of Greece, among others, to the main aim of the imperialist competitions, what projects are they? You should really be ashamed and ashamed of all parties in here and that's something you're obviously not feeling. You hide the fact that the deeper the country's involvement in US planning, the more the field of Greek competition with Turkish bourgeoisie is expanding and the situation is becoming more and more dangerous to our people and their rights. You hide the fact that your allies - your allies, not the Greek people, your governments and the bourgeoisie you represent - are on the basis of their own interests and will promote strategic relations with Turkey, whose role is being upgraded in the wider region. This has been seen by the attitude of the Americans, NATO and the European Union in Greek-Turkish relations and Cyprus, which is heading for division. You hide that the missile system you sent to Saudi Arabia is part of the general aggressive US and NATO plan against Iran. In this adventure you are involving the country thousands of miles away in the name of foreign policy extroversion. The governments of the New Democracy of PASOK and SYRIZA, in total, did the mission of two and a half thousand Greek soldiers and media to the Afghanistan war slaughterhouse, alongside the Americans of NATO and the European Union. Minister, your advisers should have explained to you - why you mentioned a vain attempt to despise the Patriots you made in the committee - that for an aggressive strategy it is necessary and the seemingly air defence systems to protect aggressive infrastructures. The presence of Patriot in Saudi Arabia is therefore not a peaceful defensive defensive. Ladies and gentlemen, international developments warn. The creation of the Australia, the United Kingdom and the US alliance in competition with China, the NATO 2030 strategy and the decisions taken a few days ago in Athens at the meeting of the military committee of the lupus alliance trigger new cycles of opposition and imperialist antagonisms and in the area of nuclear weapons, which you have deeply put Greece into extremely dangerous developments for the people. SYRIZA is causing. He boasts he opened the way and used the strategic dialogue with the United States to strengthen the involvement of the American-Russian projects. This policy was continued by New Democracy with new US bases and participation in new imperialist missions abroad. On this basis the government is now moving on to extend the Greek-American agreement with five-year power and new bases of death in many areas of the country. I would like to say a few words about the position of SYRIZA, which was expressed by Mr Katrugalo in his speech in the previous debate in committee. Mr Katrugalos spoke of the need for strategic autonomy of the European Union. It's nothing new. Two European Union reports in January 2020 preceded what is being discussed today and on the occasion of the departure of the Americans from Afghanistan. What didn't Mr. Katrugalos say? That strategic autonomy does not question NATO. This is clear from the European Union. On the other hand, it strengthens tactics towards Russia. So what's he predicting? It provides for the development of forces in the region of the European Union. What, of course, defines as a region? Not the borders of the European Union that you like to show, but outside of it. Because today we are seeing military interventions by the European Union and in Africa. Already, today, the European Union has a military presence on three continents, on sixteen military or non-project missions. These reports establish that strategic autonomy must include the ability of the capitalist union of the monopolies of the European Union to act alone when its interests are at stake. Whose interests? Let SYRIZA answer. Is the interests of the peoples of the European Union or the interests of capitalist and monopoly groups? These few, in order to reveal also the role of SYRIZA, the false left-wing role that aims to caging thousands of people who express anguish about our country's involvement in the European Union. Mr. Katrugalos also spoke, he said two words. Mr. Katrugalos refuses to believe that some are and are fighting against NATO. The logic of the ostrich is very well known. She's sticking her head in the sand so she won't see the threat. So, Mr. Kumucascus, let's stay this way. When the party and order it represents feels in its neck the breath of the people, the workers let it out. It'll be too late. The JRC makes it clear that the policy implemented by the government is in complete contrast with the interests of our people. Whatever the masks do now they're down. No matter what you do, no matter what you make up your mind, our people are scenting on you. You cannot stop the reactions, protests like those expressed, and with the advance course of the anti-war, anti-imperialist movement in the US Embassy. Our people are well aware that anyone who supports NATO is against it. It deliberately undermines today and the future of generations that come both in our country and in the world. Obviously, we are voting against these two agreements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. The reason is the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Antonios Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u43	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what you hear today is true, which comes from people who think logically and above all foresee. And here I'm going to give a parentheses, Minister. You saw what the President of the Greek Solution said to you, Mr. Villardos and all of us about lignites: "Do not abolish lignites. You will find it in front of you." You prevented and abolished them and came out yesterday a businessman who deals with energy, Mr Vangelis Mytileneus, and told you that it was a criminal error that we had prematurely abolished the lignites. The results will be seen by the Greek people in a few days' time when the first invoices will come with the new policy. Because, Minister, MWh from 15 euros went to 25 and now to 72 euros. A household, that is, paying 1,000 euros a year of electricity, will pay 1,800 euros. And let me see how you get this together with the two euros you say it will increase. Halima's fairy tales. Now we are going to the two sanctions of understanding memoranda between our Ministry, Greece, Czechoslovakia, Bulgaria, Romania and, of course, Turkey. It's two memorials interconnected. One supplements the other because it speaks of the transformation of the naval headquarters, i.e., essentially its subjection. Geopolitical developments worldwide are changing, Minister. Because I know you well, I believe that what you will hear from us, you accept them. Can't you execute them? I agree. I won't talk about SYRIZA. Gentlemen, you have disappointed the whole society. You're all-a-half-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar. You said very much to me that you know that we are putting a question on a number of things that the government has to answer, which did not answer, and now you have come to vote on it, to support what the government brings, but which you, Mr SYRIZA, actually asked for. If Mr. Vitsas was here, why in 2016 did he propose to become this twenty-seventh Centre of Excellence for the Anti-Airport and Anti-Baltic Defence in Crete, so that Greece could be upgraded against whom? And a question which you did not answer, Mr Minister, and I would ask you to answer. Our enemy, who is he? Is it Russia? Our enemy is Turkey? Today, as soon as the Prime Minister speaks of the UN General Assembly's step towards aggression against the Turks. We are not talking about provocation anymore, we are talking about Turkey's aggression, the Turkish ship entered ten nautical miles. And yesterday Mr Dendias said: 'He entered ten nautical miles, twelve are our territorial waters'. Oh, no? You remember that now, Minister? What were we talking about when Mr. Gerapetritis here was talking about the six-mile red line? I'm asking. Aren't we saying, alone, we can't take our eyes off? We were talking about the six nautical miles? He tells you, sir, I'm not in five, I'm in ten. And now Mr. Dendias says that our territorial waters, hayalitis, are at twelve. What are these things? Why don't we bring it to the House to demarcate it? Our territorial waters all over the territory are twelve nautical miles? But it's good. It's good. This also applies to SYRIZA. You're really well described by Mr. Papastasis of the JRC. It turns right at speed, sparking, right was the word. Mr Minister, instead of bringing a Europe that is strong with an ally to Russia, we do everything we can to drive Russia out and we now have the AUKUS agreements, NATO is in a despair situation, does not know what to do, only builds the enemies. And you know that, a man who has served, knows the natautics well. The Greek Solution is not against international organisations, nor NATO, nor the UN, nor with countries, America or Russia or China. The Greek Solution has only one rationale and has said it many times. He's with Greece and the Greeks, everything that's of interest to our country. And here these two sanctions are not in the interests of Greece, they do not make any difference. What's that thing? What anti-aircraft, anti-missile? Does the Americans have in mind bringing the destroyers here with the AEGIS system in order to have even greater capacity for anti-aircraft and anti-Baltic coverage on the part of Russia if it is assumed that Europe or America is at risk from Russia and to sell them to us? Is that why you stopped the talks with NAVAL and the French for the fresh bellaras, Minister? Are you prepared to make two agreements - intermediate and final - with the Americans and NOMEX in here to get what the Americans will give us? I don't believe that from you. I believe that at least you will keep a defense, a defense at last, someone from the government! No one's holding anything! You don't even keep the pretexts anymore. I'm really sorry. I'll ask you another question, Minister. It was said yesterday that Saudi Arabia for the Patriots that we sent to have an anti-aircraft, anti-British coverage of the ARAMCO, gave us 10 million dollars. That's what he mentioned. But they went - he says - to a private company account that makes promotion. Is that true? An honorary ambassador denounced it. If it's true, you have to give a word to the Greek people, because the money the Saudis gave, obviously, was going for another purpose. I don't know what happened. We are asking a very simple question, and I would ask you very much, when the time comes to speak, Mr Minister, to give us an answer about the Patriot pistol that was gone and went to Saudi Arabia and the $10 million that left Saudi Arabia. For whom did they leave and where did they go? And that's to put some things in place. This is where we lost the ball. I'm really talking to you. Let's go talk about the substance of two or three things, because we have a lot of things, but we need to see what's going on. I want to tell you this. This whole debate, Minister, is taking place because Turkey is in the countries that, together with our country, with the Czech Republic, Bulgaria and Romania, are setting up this anti-aircraft anti-aircraft umbrella centre. Turkey first has nothing to do with this. What can Turkey give to this? On the contrary, Turkey will get from research into new anti-aircraft, anti-ballistic defences. I therefore believe that Turkey should have been excluded. She's got the NATO of her hand, she's proved it. What it offers to Germany and Germany, like Italy and Spain, is many billions, but also to America. So Turkey has NATO. Many wonder why this Turkish ship, why are Turkish warships blocking the French ship making an investigation. What's he doing? That has been said, and I think we need to make it clear. He's not researching oil or natural gas. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will conclude in a minute, Mr President. He's doing research on the route of East Med, Minister. So Turkey is against East Med. That's why. If you see a map - and I showed you yesterday - of 2014, when Biden, the current US President was head of the Energy Commission and presented in 2015 to Erdogan, there is what Turkey is shouting and protesting and doing today. Here we see an energy map and see the path of East Med, that is, the route from Leviathan to Aphrodite and from there to Turkey around Greece. That's what Turkey wanted. That was then offered by today's President of the United States, and he can do now that he doesn't understand, that he doesn't remember anything and that he's sleeping fast! I'm saying that to put them down. To conclude, the Greek Solution rejects these two memoranda of understanding. We have said the reasons for the committee too, and I mentioned a few things today. We must, Minister, say what the Greek Solution calls, say it together here. Greece must finally look at its interest, not NATO's, the Americans, the Russians or the Chinese. We always shout, "First Greece, first Greeks". Not in these two memorials of understanding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u44	Thank you, Mr. Mylonakis. Now there is the floor for the special speaker of Mera25, Mr. Claus Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much for giving me the floor, Mr President. Minister, I wanted to begin by asking you one question: do we have another enemy, another country that has declared publicly, systematically, for years, that it has been in charge of national sovereignty, of our territorial integrity? I see you're busy with your phone, but the question isn't rhetorical. And I don't blame you. I know you're busy. That makes sense. But I say, Minister, that my question is from my heart, it is not rhetorical. I imagine we'll all agree in the Chamber that one is the enemy of Greece. I don't suppose we're threatened by any other country. I don't have in mind - Fifty-six years old - and correct me if I'm wrong. I imagine that we all agree here on simple common sense, that the only threat globally to us at the moment - and not only right now, for sixty years now - is Turkey. On this, I imagine, we all agree. Minister, I tell you this because we clearly have the wolf to keep the sheep if you ratify this agreement, which was indeed Mr Vitta's idea from what is rumoured. And, indeed, it is comicotragic and the title: "Centre of Excellence for Completed Anti-Air Force and Anti-Cypriot Defense...". It seems that Mr. Vitsats had pre-conceived the term of "excellence" to you. Look, Minister, I will be clear and brief, because I have told you in committee too. We are all here witnesses of a completely surrealist state, in the opinion of Mera25, where Greece, together with the only existing military against the threat called "Turkey" and in cooperation with three naval countries, is setting up a new organisation and, as the government says, you, that is, that you represent it - are strengthening our military diplomacy and upgrading our military position in Crete with regard to Greece's national issues. And I asked you this in committee as well: are you serious about this, Minister? Do you really think that's how it upgrades? Look, I will read you exactly what is provided for in the agreement, which you will ratify today. It is foreseen that Turkey will provide us - and we in Turkey will return - know-how, support and strengthen the capabilities of our integrated anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence. Hey, doesn't this sound kind of crazy to you? I'm sorry to talk like that, Minister. Turkey will provide us with know-how and support for our anti-missile and anti-aircraft defence, which our anti-missile and anti-aircraft defence will only address Turkey, why is it the only one that threatens us aggressively? If you understand anything, please tell me to understand it, too. You said, and I listened very carefully, Minister, because I always listen to you with great attention to the committees - in response to these objections of a large part of the opposition, particularly the Communist Party and us, but also to the Greek Solution, I must say, on the other hand, on the most 'patriotic' - on many introductory terms - for us: what would you want, namely, you? Would you like to take our tail out? Would you like that not to be done in our Crete? Would you like it to be done in Turkey? You've been talking about it. Go out and say it publicly. We tell you from Mera25 in the most public and official way, from the Step of the Greek Parliament: Yes, Minister, we would please, pray to go to Turkey rather than to Crete. And you know why we would do that? For the simple reason that once this new organization is established, at the same time all the weapons of Russia, Mr Putin, will return to Crete. Why are you moving your hand, Minister? Tell me, who are your allies targeting with these guns? Where are they looking at these guns? Why are we precious? Why is Souda precious? Why is Crete valuable? You know much better than I do, because you are a responsible minister, that tomorrow all the archipelagos of Russian intercept missiles will be looking towards the navals that threaten them. So much better to look at the coasts of Turkey than to look at the largest island in Greece. I'm not going to go on with this surrealism. I will tell you about Article 3 - and the first agreement is defined, but the second agreement is clear - it is clear: it is clear, they say so clearly, because the Americans are not affected, nor are they ashamed. And they say that first they will serve their organization, first of all NATO, then they will serve what they all want together in the region, and finally, if there is nothing left and we will help the poor Greece as well. So what do we do? We give our lands, we give money, a lot of money. But the main aim of all is to serve, of course, the naval designs which, quite rightly said before me, the spokesman of the Communist Party is always at the expense of our country over time. It's been seventy years. I don't live that long. Fifty-six years I've lived. But fifty-six years I've lived in this cursed organization, NATO, behaves hostile to Greece. I would also remind you - and I close with this issue because I have more important topics to say today, Mr Minister - that last year a burning research vessel in Turkey was portrayed by six nautical miles from Kastelorizo. Do you want to work with this country to build your anti-missile defense? With this country saying that half of the Aegean is its own? This country which demands that we demilitarise our islands while threatening us in public? That means that it is a cause of war a number of things, which are completely unreasonable to be a cause of war, and at the same time it requires the demilitarisation of our islands! You're going to go to college with this country? With this you will cooperate against what invisible enemy? I'm finishing this because he really doesn't want any arguments. Whatever you say unjustified will not justify it, Minister. No brain out there listening to us can understand how our sub-century enemy can become our partner. Let me give it to you to understand it clearly. We bought sixteen Rafale and we're going to buy that more. Some more announce Prime Minister. They are these wonderful Rafales that according to what you have informed us exceeds F-16 and we acquired superpower in the Aegean Sea. How would you feel about the days we don't use them or the hours we don't use them, lending them to our Turkish associates to use them for their own needs? Since we have a common missile and anti-aircraft defense, why not have a common airstrike fleet? So unreasonable! Mr President, I continue by saying that yesterday, of course, the unified unscrupulous free distribution of our food, sweets and coffee have devoured to us a protracted victory, a victory of historical importance for the entire Greek people. The fierce "e-FOD" stirred strings, put the tail in the legs commonly called, gave them land and water, at the same time proving to all of us that every time a movement of labour is ungroomed, it is self-governable and, in other words, it does not have anyone to hat it, it is capable of overthrowing any injustice as great as the injustice is. But there are some other things left. What other things? He lives the other half of the sky, as Mao Tse Tung would say. The other half of the sky has a name and it's called Wolt. In Wolf, Mr President, I would like to inform you - you know that - all the workers are on a block. The block wasn't abolished. And so I come to Mr. Bukokouros, who rushed yesterday to answer how loving our Prime Minister is - you know who, "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." - against them who met them in Moschato in a tavern and there among cheese and pears, "between cheese and pear" i.e., they told him their demands - which were not such, they did not want to have a block - and everything they said was satisfied. And so our Government is loving. He said, in fact, that we're going to smoke these people. Who? We Mera25, the smallest party in the Greek Parliament! Stay away from us. We don't have the possibility of hating anyone, but we mostly hate hats, they're outside DNA, we're out of logic. So Mr. Bukouros said that we all love distributors, we are all united in this Chamber and that we have been struggling for their struggle. I reply to him: As we all love them, Mr. Bukorore, and not you personally, I address to your party, "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", if we all love them, Mr. "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", then why don't you bring a fine law next week, which says that all distributors, who work on platforms, are forbidden to work with service blocks? Do it since we're all so loving to them, with the proletariat, do it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Last Tuesday in Tinos, Mr. Theodorikos gave his credentials, replacing Mr. Chrysochoidis. Manolius changed and put on his clothes differently. Last Tuesday night, Mr President, they arrived on the island, which is well known worldwide, not, of course, for its world-famous inhabitants, not, of course, for its inhabitants, who have a torque to the molotovs, but rather for its God-fearing population, the island that is world-famous for Virgin Mary of Tinos, there sent his platoons to rot who? - two hundred and three hundred people who said that they do not want wind turbines - Mr President, I will end in two minutes - which is an obligation, as Mr Mitsotakis said in this House, two weeks ago, to put another five thousand wind turbines. I asked him, but he hadn't answered me yet, an obligation on who? There is no such obligation in the European Union. If he means Mr. Koploso and TERNA, tell us to know. The former mayor of Tinos roughly, for he would care for a student girl as he says - whose MATs had opened his head. If you think you're gonna put wind turbines through force, you're very laughable. You're going to leave night and the Matts, which are not the fault of anything, are carrying out orders, they're going to swim, Minister. I conclude, Mr President, with an issue which concerns all of us and must end the feminine murder. I am sick, I am sorry for the expression. One of our souls has now been disgraced every day by one of our fellow men to kill a fellow man with only 'right' - in infinite introductory terms - that he is his ex-wife or now his wife, that is to say, the only excuse - for everyone to hear it - that he sees it as his property. That patriarchal conception is leading to these multiple murders. Let us stop for God's sake and the Virgin Mary murdering our women and companions. It is disgraceful and shows that Greece is the most Paleolithic country among Paleolithic countries of the European Union. And it's about our model of authority, it's about the idea that it's my property a woman and when she abandons her is the reproach I have to kill her for my honor. It's a national shame! If coordinates do not we all stand against this, and if it does not begin with our mothers, Mr President, to consult their sons otherwise, with respect for the woman's diversity, with respect for the other half of the sky, we will continue to murder our companions and our wives. The Music Association of Northern Greece - a phrase, Mr President - asks for the immediate registration of the marks to the beneficiaries of the special-purpose compensation. It also calls for the Association of Musicals of Northern Greece to be designated as affected by their industry and thus for the payment of special purpose compensation to continue. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, too. We will now go to the next cycle where the parliamentary representatives will take the floor. Mr. Francis, would you like the floor on behalf of the Change Movement?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u47	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u48	I see Mr Tsipras in the order you want, in any case. Will the Parliamentary Representative speak from the Greek Solution?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u49	He won't speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u50	From Mera25?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u51	No, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u52	I therefore prescribe the order which Mr Françidis, Mr Tsipras, Mr Pafilis from the JRC, and lastly Mr Bukokoros from New Democracy. Mr. Francis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the resolution of two bills on sanctions for the memorandum of understanding signed in April 2020 between the Ministry of National Defence of Greece and the Ministry of National Defence of Bulgaria, the Czech Republic, Turkey and between the abovementioned ministries and the NATO Allied Transformation Commander's General. The first memorandum concerns the establishment of a Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-Fluid Defence. The latter shall specify the operating conditions of the Centre of Excellence. Greece is the host state-frame and the centre's headquarters are in Crete, Chania. Our country is participating with eleven executives. It provides for the Centre for infrastructure, equipment, support staff and administrative function. Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia and Romania will operate in support, with one executive each and Turkey with two executives. According to our position in the committee responsible, the Change Movement votes positively in both bills. That's why I won't be long. Our decision is based on understanding that this is a centre dealing with the study and processing of data, the export and analysis of findings, the updating of knowledge and the finding of ways of dealing with the development of anti-missiles and anti-missile shields. The anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence plays a major role in the defence policy of each country and the alliance in general. Countries outside NATO are developing ballistic and ultrasonic new technology missile systems. It is therefore important to know the systems used by other states and to participate in the development of regular counter-missiles. Greece's initiative to establish and host the Centre of Excellence hopes that, firstly, it will improve the country's position within the Natonic alliance by placing it in the centre of developments and by highlighting it to an active member of the alliance, secondly, it will strengthen its extroversion through the cooperation and development of joint activity with other states of the alliance and thirdly, it will contribute to the acquisition of valuable know-how in the field of air defence. The truth is, however, that it seems strange and quite paradoxical to work on anti-missiles issues with a state that stands threatening to your national interests. Of course, I'm talking about Turkey. However, we need in this case to distinguish these two, namely our cooperation within NATO and our relationship with Turkey. Our country is a member of NATO. So is Turkey. We should in every way try to have a strong reason, a strong diplomacy, a strong operational capacity so that within the alliance we can be an equitable size vis-à-vis Turkey. In this context, our country is right to take the initiative to create a centre of excellence and is not content with the role of observer of developments. A similar attitude, however, is needed in foreign policy, especially with regard to Greek-Turkish, where there is an ever-increasing tension. We see an ongoing violation of Ankara in the Aegean, Cyprus and the Eastern Mediterranean. Recently we had a proliferation of our airspace violations by Turkish fighter aircraft, the question of the Greek EEZ in the Aegean Sea by Turkish fishermen, the provocative harassment of the French ship by Turkish fryer in Crete, in breach of the Convention on the Law of the Sea. Before we had the illegal underwater investigations and drilling in the maritime areas of Cyprus, the Turklibi memorandum, the crisis in Evros, the opening of the Baroness. All these challenges must receive a resounding response from the Greek Government. For the Change Movement. The issues of national sovereignty and integrity go beyond the competence and capabilities of a single party and must be the result of a national strategy and national understanding. Turkey's upgraded role in Afghanistan, its foreign policy review and Erdogan's grandeur predict that the next few years will be difficult for Greek relations with Turkey. They'll have to find us united on a common front. It needs to be made clear to all Member States - NATO and the European Union, or where our country is taking part - that they have to respect their allies and respect any agreements or conditions that govern their relationship. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u54	And we thank Mr. Francis. The floor has now been settled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance Mr George Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. The two sanctions that we are discussing are very much less important than many that are currently evolving from that side of the government or the Ministry of Defence and contrary to the sanctions that have come to Parliament - and should, of course, have come - the rest have not come to Parliament and there is no information. I shall refer only to two of the many, two in particular. One is that there has been no information about the final contract, and the Greek people do not know, not only the House, about the aviation training centre in Kalamata, a contract of inconceivable height. The second thing that is much more serious is that the House has not been informed about the Patriot unit we are sending to Saudi Arabia at all. First of all, this is the first time that Greece has sent troops outside the framework of decisions by an international organisation in which we are participating and accepting. First of all, that. Secondly, this is the first time, not since the time of Andreas Papandreou, but since the time of Constantine Karamanlis who has abandoned part of a multidimensional policy that was right and to some extent exists even to ensure positive relations, friendly relations, almost with all the countries of the Middle East and the wider region, such as North Africa, Russia, etc. Thirdly and most importantly, because it has not come to Parliament. What right? Invoking what law you have not brought out foreign troops outside the country? We are not selling a weapon system, we are not lending a weapon system, it is a Greek military unit that supports these systems and it will be found in a foreign country and we are involved in a conflict or in some contradictions, which we have never done before. These are some of the issues that have not come to Parliament and there is a need for information. Another matter. The Prime Minister promised that by June he would close the question of strengthening the Navy. It wasn't closed in June. You, Minister, said to the relevant question of SYRIZA Members that it would be closed until August, it was not closed until August and there is no information at all about what we are waiting for. However, there are infinite reports of what we probably expect. There was a great deal of study and a lot of easy to announce again from the Step ID for six new Rafale and there is nothing to do with the other issue. So there is a very basic question. Is there some sort of planning going on? The fact that the Rafale was announced and nothing else was announced - we have come to a certain design - are pressures, tactics and problems of Maximos. The last one. SYRIZA has asked, and neither the Government - nor the Ministry of Defence - has answered the question - if it is true that a Turkish warship arrived within our territorial waters, even two and a half miles north of Crete from our coasts. Even if this is not the case, you have to give an answer. You can deny it very clearly if it has not been done. Let me just remind you that the completely irresponsible statements by government ministers about a year ago when they slapped 'ORUC REIS' in the red line region six nautical miles, it is clear that it creates a precedent that Turkey has used this time and especially now that the challenges have been systematically relaunched. I would like to close up the foreign policy issue. Maximo's put her in the auto. We have spent a period of time following the Baiden election that was a change of attitude in the United States where instead of taking advantage of this change of attitude, we have to consolidate, we have to make more systematic certain positions and the country's position in the triangle of Greece - Turkey - the United States, the government rested on this first change of attitude, but things are not going so far. He put this relationship on the autopilot, and today we are seeing phenomena and developments in a completely opposite direction. The only strategy that you seem to have, and I hope that is not proved by the five-year defensive agreement that you are planning, is 'yes to everything', but it is proven worldwide, not only in Greece, that 'yes' absolutely does nothing. Prime Minister Mitsotakis said so at the meeting with Trump that Greece is a given one. This is not a strategy and it leads us to a much greater deadlock than today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u56	And we thank Mr. Tsipras. The floor is now, after the Stepma is settled, the Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Athanasios Pafilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u57	SYRIZA says "yes" does not work anywhere. Can you tell us a "no" you said? Tell us one for a sample, have it and move it like a fig sheet. All of NATO's decisions have been signed. All that the Americans have asked for, and you have even been proud of it. You were asked to close the Syrian Embassy and you did it and said you were a left-wing government. Why did you do it? We have a problem with Syria. What you have been asked to do, and more than you have been asked. That is the truth, and we must be honest here, and when such debates take place, the Greek people will draw conclusions, because there will be no mind to change. It is a given policy. You said NATO changed - where is Katrugalos? - and it's good now. Now he's killing well while he was killing harder? You have said too many other unbelievable things that have not been said progressively by no left party around the world. Now the debate cannot be fragmentary, objectively generalised, for today, and as our rapporteur said: What are these two ratifications that we are doing? It is a link in the chain of active involvement of Greece in the aggressive imperialist plans. I say again: active involvement, not even observers! You say all of you who have ruled today that Greece is a safe and peaceful country. In fact, the Greek people yes, they are peaceful as all the peoples of the world. Others are pushing them, the big economic interests, the monopolies, the imperialists, they are pushed to slaughter. You also say - I have heard Mr Tsipras - that you are pursuing a multi-dimensional foreign policy. Are you kidding us? What's next, multidimensional? Whatever NATO wants and the Americans do, isn't that what you do? Where's the multidimensional one? Are all these military plans in which you participate and proud already are peaceful? Who's the rival after all? Who's the adversary in NATO you're going there in Norway and elsewhere? Who's the enemy? Tell him! Don't you have courage? Russia! Say: Yes, we participate in Russia's curiosity and we participate in China's exclusion plans etc. Is it true or is it a lie? So what multidimensional policy? Because you have financial relations? Even in sanctions, which have no meaning, which destroyed the farmers, SYRIZA was in the government, he voted on them. You of the New Democracy, of course, celebrate, I am not talking about it. But you're the most classic, anyway. While SYRIZA came late and passed through the right, spying on what Papastasis said. So let's see who she is. Did Greece participate in all the interventions in all wars, yes or no, by decision of the governments, all governments, New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA? He participated in Yugoslavia, yes or no? In fact, Mr. Tsipras says that the first time Greeks and a weapon system go abroad. What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u58	Except for international organizations, Mr. Pafile.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u59	Why was there a decision to go to Kosovo?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u60	There was.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u61	What international organization decided? There was a decision to go to Afghanistan. What international organisation? NATO. Oh, is NATO now he's ordering? Who's ordering? The Americans, to go there. You participated everywhere. Everything they asked you to do: Yugoslavia, Afghanistan, Libya, Syria with exclusions. So, what kind of peaceful policy are you talking about? What national interests is the Patriot group defending in Saudi Arabia? What's he doing? What are you doing with this? Two goals are served. Firstly - I do not want to say it - American servants who take the powers and take them to the Pacific, because they change their strategy because of competition with China. Go and cover the hole in the air defense of Saudi Arabia. The second is the interests of the bourgeoisie who's about to get. No, it's not. It's already working. He has huge interests in both Saudi Arabia and other countries. If you want to serve, you must also have an army. He said it about Kosovo, when nineteen of leukemia died from depleted uranium. So do not say 'we have a peaceful policy'. Because we don't claim a border? But when we participate in the division, the fragment, the murder of the peoples, we participate in what we want, that is, what they ask of Greece. Because the Greek people don't want these. Isn't this a pro-war policy? What is it? It may not be with Turkey and Turkey being more aggressive, but as a whole, in the region, Greece is attacked with NATO and the Greek people must know it and know it very well. Secondly, to your god, is Greece a peaceful country? We lost the bill. How many bases are they? Twenty-seven? And twelve will now. You have even delivered the political infrastructure at the disposal of NATO and the Americans. Yes or no? She did the same thing. SYRIZA started, opened the way to the bases, and now you're speeding up. What country is this? Take the map and look at it. Which philanthropic country? Alexandroupolis? Let's start from Evros to Crete and from Epirus to South Peloponnese. You'll give more. Really, for what? Why do you give these? Who's threatening us? Russia threatens us? Not that it's not an imperialist country. It is. No, all they have said about Iran too - and these are laws of war - is that in the event of a generalised conflict, the foundations that exist and are aggressive, they will be targets. In other words, the Greek people will be killed through a general war for what reason? For the interests of imperialists, the interests of monopolies, multinationals, because they protect NATO and they protect no people. It's a carnival. It's soaked in the blood, up to the bottom. Tens of millions are the dead of NATO and naval countries. You say to us 'the peaceful country' and you are now preparing to renew and move forward with the agreement with the United States of America, which will protect us from Turkey. Well, who are you kidding, really? If the Americans and Europeans wanted, if they did not look at their own interests, they could stop Turkey's aggression, yes or no? Nor did the European Union take a position because they have huge interests with Turkey and, on the other hand, they are trying to remove it from Russia's influence. So all the governments have turned Greece into a military, advanced, aggressive American base and anyone who doesn't believe in opening up the map to see all of Greece, far more the military. What else? You all participate - all governments - in all NATO's military and aggressive exercises, which the Greek people pay with billions. We have repeatedly asked you all the Ministers for Defence - and SYRIZA and the New Democracy and PASOK - how much it costs, how much it costs the Greek people to go to Norway, for example, the two F16. Doesn't it burn 10,000 an hour? Count. In other words, the Greek people, who live in a horrendous life in stress, every day, the aggressive plans of the Americans throughout humanity, because NATO has now escaped what was called the "North Atlantic Pact". He has given himself the right - not even the UN, who, but also the UN, to control him - to intervene more than six thousand miles, i.e. all over the world. Now that we have new ones and I'll say below. Didn't you do these exercises in Grevena with Israel and the Americans? What was their target and the opponent? It was the simulation of Iran. Yes or no? Why did you give the airspace and participate Greek planes F-16 in these exercises, which are essentially war rehearsal with Iran, which Greece will also be involved. You didn't know? They knew it. And the soldiers knew it, as did all of them, and all of the navals? There's no one. To know that the Greek people are cut off by their bread, that it draws their mercy and at the same time finances with their sweat the aggressive imperialist plans and the murders of people. That's the reality. Thirdly, I would ask you to identify politically. At least Papandreou was putting an asterisk on. I mean, he was working on us, but he was putting on an asterisk. What did you say here? Tell us a political decision by NATO - military, in fact, such as the last one in Athens, that is for New Democracy, but also for you - on one that has set certain limits - I am not saying veto - which you said 'no, we do not agree'. When NATO took all the decisions on the new NATO, which will have new forces, including 40% of the Greek army - other than whether or not it is done - will it be at NATO's disposal at any time, where you said 'no' and you of the New Democracy? What national interests, then, are they served by 'yes' and by matching these projects? What do we have with Iran, for example, for example, for you, Mr Tsipras? Is he threatening us? What countries are threatening us? What's the danger, the opponent? Are they the Taliban? Americans are best friends. Did you see them? They were built, they did their job, they went to Afghanistan and now they have allies. They left them there to have an open warfield for many reasons, but it is one of the reasons to cut off the silk road, designed by the Chinese, and when there will be ignition in the area and there will be chaos, they will not be able to pass through Afghanistan, which is a strategic point. Apart from the minerals and all the rest they have. So to speak and know as a Greek people that you are on the same line. The rest we let go. Here it is also ridiculous to go out and denounce, as SYRIZA does, and to say "you did not answer" etc., "but nonetheless, we will vote". Why? Because you've given land and water, navy left, American. Now you're gonna take that one off, too, 'cause it's getting to you. So you say now, as every time, about Turkey. This helps us and think of going to Turkey. When did he really help us? So many agreements have been made, what has happened with Turkey? At the same time as you say that, does another region break down in the Aegean Sea or does it not understand that? He casts the region east of Crete with "so I want" as well. At the same time that it does all this, you say "happily!" Along with Turkey, aren't you in NATO? Why are you? Are you in an alliance the ally threatens you? This can't be! However, it is because the interests of the great pluto-crats are at stake. In fact, I was reading this morning - I do not remember who said it, Mr Mitsotakis or any other official - that we have solved the problems of the EEZ with Italy and we have solved them with Egypt too. I invite you to remember the criticism we made when these agreements came, because our criticism was - beyond that - that there is a reduced influence on the adjacent islands and on the EEZ with Egypt, 56% of them, if I am not mistaken, 44% of us. Isn't that right? So it says - I don't remember who it is and I don't want to blame anyone, but it doesn't matter, the government says it - that we already have a model to solve the problems. So should we wait the same? Reduced effect on Crete? 'No' - you will all say - 'We will defend' and others, but behind many of the 'no's' is hidden in NATO, and the Americans, who are not very interested in them, are also hiding. They want to take advantage of it and various other companies. We therefore say that this policy is disastrous for the Greek people and does not, as you say, protect our national interests. On the contrary, it undermines them at any time - we've told them - and with the weapon systems and so forth you can be completely uncovered. But what country is this? They'll block you from a thousand ways, if they want, the Americans and they can do it technologically and politically and have done it throughout their history in too many countries. We are involved, because the international situation is exacerbating. We want to warn the people that there are competitions in general throughout the world. Here, the new American, Australia and Great Britain agreement has moved NATO partners too, because they are the interests, because they are all against the people and everyone is chasing the largest share. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u62	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u63	That's how they collide and I'm closing here. We say that the people must strengthen their struggle. There is no good prospect for the people in NATO and the European Union. As for the slogan that the European Union will acquire military autonomy, served by SYRIZA for many years, it is a reheated food. First there will be economic autonomy and it will become social Europe. Finally, Europe has proved to be not social, but it is disastrous for people's interests. Now it says'military autonomy'. But have you not read what the European Union says? That a key pillar of defence and security is NATO and is not questioned. The fact that they have cocks, they do. What is the European Union's planning now that has autonomy? Strengthen and strengthen European troops in Russia and other countries. That is why we say that it is a dead end, and the Greek people must not shrub and even pay with their blood the profits of the capitalists and the multinationals.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr. Paphie. The floor is now, after the Stepma has been settled, the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Christos Boukos. Here you go, Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. I understand, ladies and gentlemen, that within Ethiopia there are colleagues who probably wanted the country to belong to the Warsaw Pact. Others might want to belong to the Unbundled Movement. But all these decades ago. We're living a new reality. Besides, to agree with some of the remarks, there is the historic former members of the same alliance turning against states belonging to the same alliance. In 1955 the Warsaw Pact was founded, in 1956 we had the Soviet intervention in Hungary and in 1968 we had the Spring of Prague. Whoever denies this happening is probably a long way from reality. The issue is how strong the country is and how strong it strengthens its position in an international environment, but also within the supranational organisations that belong to it. Since these issues are serious, they are not offered for cheap impressions. The country's orientation is well known. Are there changes? Of course there are. There are huge changes in the international geopolitical and geostrategic environment. We have seen the changes and the Anglo-Saxon alliance of recent times that shifts the axis towards the Pacific, but that does not mean that the importance of our region, the Mediterranean and Europe is missing. What is the country doing, however, on the basis of the two sanctions we are discussing today, the anti-missile protection and cooperation with the Centre for Excellence, on know-how and all these issues? And with these sanctions, the country is trying to strengthen its position within the supranational organisations that are involved. We have never denied this participation. We are historically and strategically committed to this participation. Now, those who say: 'Why are we participating in NATO or the European Union' without proposing anything, it is obvious that they have nothing to propose, because they certainly claim we are involved. We're involved because when you're involved, you're involved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u66	I'll give you the JRC program.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u67	When you join, of course you're involved. The proposal is to be left alone, as if global interests would allow you to remain alone in such an area as the Mediterranean, with the interest that this region is presenting. These are delusional, forgive me. What's the country doing today? We can call foreign and defence policy a multi-dimensional one or a one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-sided one-way. I'd say she's active and active. It strengthens its relations with traditional allies in NATO and Europe and builds new alliances for the first time. It builds strong alliances, and that is the concept of the state. How can each organisation's external security - which is the main pillar - be guaranteed, which wants to be called a serious state? It can be ensured by foreign and defence policy and diplomacy. What is Greece doing today? We have the axis 'Israel - Cyprus - Greece'. We have rehearsed and strengthened the last years of our relationship with Egypt. We're making new alliances with Saudi Arabia and the United Arab Emirates. We also have Mediterranean cooperation through 'Med9'. These are issues which reinforce the country's presence in the sensitive Mediterranean and Middle East, because, yes, our interests today are in the Eastern Mediterranean and that is what economic developments show, beyond geopolitical and geostrategic developments. That is where the spearhead of our national interests is. There are no national laws, ladies and gentlemen, and no one shares the law of another in the international chess board. There are national interests and national interests which are identified and defended only by strengthening the country. That is what we are doing today, as I said before, by strengthening our positions within NATO and with our traditional ally, namely the United States, but also with France at the same time, as well as making new alliances. With the strengthening of the country's defensive power, with the equipment programs which after 10, twelve years of inertia because of the economic crisis began by the current government of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Minister of Defence Nikos Panagiotopoulos to be implemented at a rapid pace, we believe they can strengthen the country's position. Everything else is a conversation, a conversation. Are you diplomatically aiding? Are you boosting new alliances? Are you arming up? They're taking you more into consideration. This is a great and simple truth that has been historically confirmed. And we know that the Greek people support this reinforcement of the country and ask for it. All public research shows that the Greek people are calling for the strengthening of our national defence and our foreign policy and diplomacy, because they are aware of the importance of these pillars of politics. The Greek people are aware of it and understand that it has paid very hard and very strictly the times that in these areas it was weak. And in any case, ladies and gentlemen, even before we implement the alliances that I have mentioned and before we begin the implementation of the armaments and activities in general of the Ministry of National Defence, to which the Minister of National Defence will be referred, the country with the election of the New Democracy Government has faced unprecedented challenges. We must not forget that too. The first one was the hybrid attack on Evros, where we met European allies too, and they saw that we are really defending the interests of the European Union and, if you would like, showing their interest and their participation in that hybrid attack on Evros, which the country has met and has not resurrected, but has taken other measures to strengthen the borders that are not currently mentioned and we have successfully met Turkey's aggressive, highly challenging operation in the Eastern Mediterranean immediately since the summer of 2020. The armed forces, our executives, women and men of all three weapons, with the spear's edge, the Hellenic Navy, at that wide-ranging challenge by the neighbors. Of course, the fact that we are members of the same defensive alliance does not stop the provocativeness, especially the particular neighbour. Is this what we need to talk about from the Step of the House? Haven't they been recorded historically? The Greek people don't know them? Are we saying something new, something original, something never heard of? And, of course, you too, ladies and gentlemen, but also the Greek people, who are doing everything possible to strengthen the country, both diplomatic and defence, and above all, that is easier to achieve by improving the country's overall image internationally. And that can't be questioned. Since the country's image is improved diplomaticly, economically, in terms of credibility, in terms of progress and reforms, you can be sure that all of this is interconnected and the work of the country's diplomatic and defence support is facilitated. In this context, then, both current sanctions are being passed to feel stronger and more confident. So these steps have a unique objective: to strengthen the country either as a member of supranational organisations or as a country that is not in the best, most quiet neighborhood in the world. And that's not what I'm saying from this Step, the story has said. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Bukowo, too. We will conclude today's meeting with the address of the Minister of National Defence Mr. Panagiotopoulos. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot avoid the temptation to respond to some of the criticisms expressed by the opposition parties, before making a haunting of the main points of our cooperation memoranda today, on which I would like to concentrate the main part of the debate. It is inevitable, however, in such a situation, with the material of the Ministry of National Defence, not to extend the debate to matters of broader interest, especially in view of the rapid geopolitical developments and the need for the country to manage these developments. I'll start with the very fundamentals. With the JRC, our difference is well known, it is fundamental. The JRC says 'no to NATO'. This is a consistent position. But I have no idea what the counterproposal is. Shouldn't we be members of any alliance? Should we be with everyone a little bit together and everyone a little bit across the street? Can we join somewhere else? As our parliamentary representative, Mr Bukokouros, quite rightly, said, there is no longer the Warsaw Pact. There, of course, is not much the representative of the Communist Party of Greece. It does not tell us, despite its relentless geopolitical analyses, why the countries that have once been members of the Warsaw Pact are today the hardest defenders of NATO, the most fantasized. Why, brother, Bulgarians, Romanians, Czechs, Slovaks, Slovenians, Croats, Poles are always in favour of NATO's hardline?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u70	Because the fascists are back!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u71	And that should worry you. Why? Did their journey and experience in this other camp, which is not there, make them tough in the face of the experiences that this regime gave them? Did they suffer? Did this unliberal regime finally do them and experienced bad things, much worse than any NATO, and so today they appear so defenders, at the other end many times, for this alliance? You are not concerned as you are about the deep-seated geopolitical analysis of the rest. I should, in my view. Because, you know, in this regime you also swear that you are also seeking ideological background. But this regime does not exist, it has evolved, and now there is NATO, which is actually a strategic alliance. It is the military arm, if you wish, of the West camp and Greece there has chosen to be and have natural rights and obligations, as I have said in the debate in committee and as I always say. I've heard more. The criticism of the representatives of SYRIZA focused on issues of lack of information on major international issues and about the country's participation in them, as well as other equipment programmes. That is why there is always a way of informing, we have said so, either through the Committee on Foreign and Security or through parliamentary scrutiny. I think that the information deficit, at least from us, is not here. But the criticism of armaments has not been bought on your day, and I am sorry, but I cannot accept it. We run to fill gaps of many years. And the decision on freshmen, you know, is a decision that has been late for decades, not just for the five years of your own governance. That is why we now have to decide on the modernisation of the average life of a vessel, which has forty-five years of life and only medium-life equipment is not. What took so long? In any case, without particular obsession with philosophical searches, we will go and make the decision. Because we come and make decisions, which you should have made in your term of office, and you did not. Because it's much easier not to make a decision. No one's going to orchestrate you, no one's going to criticize you. It's hard to make decisions, especially when it's under pressure, because we're already late and we're going to cover the lost territory of decades. And we're doing it, and we've proved it. You'll wait a little longer for the freshmen's decision and you won't pay off, you won't plunder. It's not a good thing. Since Mr. Mylonakis raised the matter that we are about to give everything to the Americans, your President, Mr. Mylonakis, six to seven months ago, if I'm not mistaken, in a debate here on the Stepma said that we have set up the game in favour of the Germans, and I simply answered that if we had set it up, we would not spend so much time evaluating the proposals we have. Once again what do you say? Has the game been set up for the Germans? It was wrong to warn your President. Don't make the same mistake. Don't pay anything. The decision will be taken in the light of the many and renewed proposals we have in our hands. They are assessed by the Navy and the decision to be taken will be in the interests of satisfying the needs of the Navy and the country's overall defence capacity. Only this criterion will be taken into account, nothing else. That is why, and because it is not a difficult decision and it is a decision - calling for a system of arms costing billions, we should do so properly and be late for a few days. We've been late for decades. It will be the right decision to meet the needs of our Navy and the Armed Forces as a whole. From Mera25 I have heard as a key point of criticism why he should be involved in this scheme, in this centre of excellence and in Turkey with its representative. The answer is that this is life within the framework of the naval alliance. What can we do? So, because there is the possibility that Turkey, too, should we dismiss the opportunity to create a centre of excellence, the first of this type in our country, to veto, to leave NATO? What can we do? It is also the mesh of our bilateral disputes and the way in which we deal with them, and also the netting of the rights and obligations arising from the status of the member state of the naval alliance. After all, in Istanbul there is the so-called MARSEC. It's the Naval Security Excellency Center. He's sitting there. We also have two members there as members who enjoy the same status as the Turkish Armed Forces who will be able to participate in the work of this centre of excellence tomorrow. It's not a military unit. I told you in committee too. It is not a mechanism by which systems dealing with domestic defence capabilities are made available to the public or to the members of the Armed Forces or the NATO Delegation. That's not what this is all about. It's something different. It is a study centre, if you will, which of course consists of and is composed of specialised military personnel and analyses a very specific part of defence technology at the level of anti-missiles - anti-aircraft signals. That's all. As is the centre of excellence against the hybrid threats in Helsinki, Finland, there is also the centre of excellence in favour of maritime security in Istanbul and another twenty and put centres of excellence scattered into various seats of the maritime alliance. So, to return to the cause, centres of excellence are naval entities with an international military character. They have a specific structure, a specific mission aimed mainly at providing services to the alliance for specialisation, know-how, education, best practices, dogmas, analysis and lessons in various areas of interest. They shall be certified by strict allied criteria and the States may participate in them either as Heads of State such as Greece here at the centre of excellence for unified anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence, or as support Member States that sign these two Memorandums or States of contribution. The centres of excellence, as I have said, are not part of NATO's administrative structure. They are participating in an extended international NATO support network. This provides them with flexibility and appropriate cooperation with other entities, such as international or non-governmental organisations, academic institutions on defence and security, universities and others. This way - if you want - the part of the theoretical search is handled for the present and the future and the configuration of the tacticals to meet the requirements of the alliance. Each centre of excellence focuses on a specific subject or field, there being relevant knowledge and expertise. The story is, sort of, known. In 2016, on previous government - rightly in our view, because the general direction is given - our country's military leadership originally approved the advisability of setting up this centre of excellence, based in the field of Crete, in Chania, Crete. In January 2019, the 1st International Recommendation Conference was held, where the project was discussed. In June 2019, the 2nd International Recommendation Conference, in which the drafts of these memorandums we are coming to ratify today were legally examined. In September 2019, the conference for the elaboration and finalisation of the concept, namely the project, of the total centre of excellence, which is also a fundamental document or text for the alliance. In April 2020, these two memoranda of understanding were signed at NATO Supreme Command General in Norfolk, United States of America, by national liaisons or representatives of participating countries. And on September 9, 2020, the first meeting of the International Commission in Chania began, signalling the start of the multi-ethnic operation of the centre. Later - in order not to be far away - the military committee of the alliance, in December 2020 and the North Atlantic Council, namely the supreme body, the North Atlantic Council, the alliance, approved the accreditation of this centre as the twenty-seventh officially naval centre of excellence, based in Chania, Crete, within the Souda aviation base, while working with the Air Force project service, the Ministry of Defence, study and construction for the new housing building of the centre. Nation-framework, as I said, our country, supporting nations Bulgaria, Czechoslovakia, Romania and Turkey. France has expressed interest in participating as a supportive nation, as has Slovakia. The mission of this centre is to provide expertise, know-how, education, best practices, dogmas, analysis and lessons in the current sector of NATO's integrated anti-aircraft and anti-missile defence. Yes, it is a peak area, because we quickly develop new systems of aggressive missiles and the possibilities are being upgraded rapidly, especially by creating and building ultrasonic missiles with potential to hit targets, now, over a very long distance, it is also necessary to establish an umbrella - if you want - defence against fire protection, so the need to create and operate these centres of excellence that will study all these techniques, analyse developments in this area and possibly through the findings will make a significant contribution to the development of this umbrella network of the great anti-missile defence. It is the only specialized centre our country has had so far. Today it is a certified centre of excellence from NATO and the benefits are obvious to the country. It will deliver significant operational benefits and know-how in this critical area, it will be a attraction for qualified scientific staff, so that country's extroversion will increase internationally through the participation and organisation of multinational partnerships or seminars of training and exercises related to the functioning of the centre. You understand that this will enhance the role of Crete. The creation of these centres - not only the existence of upgraded base-level infrastructures, such as those already developed in the context of the defence strategy with the United States of America - you know, it gives the regions. Ask, Mr Pafile, the Hebrews whether they feel satisfied or unsafe when what is being done, particularly in infrastructure investment, by the Americans. Yeah, in a general ignition, not only will Evros be in danger, but also the whole area. But at this stage I would like to believe that the deterrent power of all these actions is, as a final aim, intended to prevent general ignition. That is the notion of prevention. These joint investments that are made and strengthened through the mutual strategic defence relationship with the United States at least at the level of upgrades of local infrastructure and therefore in local economies, in Stefanovicio, Volos, Souda, certainly, and Alexandroupolis have a positive impact only. Finally, the legislative ratification of the Memorandums of Cooperation is necessary to ensure that Greece as a framework State incorporates them into domestic legislation, as well as the relative burden on the budget. I do not think it is a great deal of money to spend 1 million in fact on the creation of infrastructure - and buildings among them - in order to accommodate the centre of excellence and the extra costs of its annual operation. Here, with a relatively small-scale intervention, the country gains a relatively added value, because overall the country's print on defence and security is increasing, both in terms of the wider region and in terms of the country's status as a NATO Member State. This initiative has an extremist dimension. The country wins more than that, because this initiative, as you understand it, has to do directly in terms of both extrovert and also in the first place on an initiative. And that, at least at the naval level, those who understand the delicate balances and the context within the framework of an alliance are of great importance. I think that in recent years the effort to calculate the country by friends and allies but also neutral ones or even enemies is fruitful. And this dual direction in which we have moved, on the one hand, to upgrade the overall potential of our Armed Forces and, on the other hand, to step up our diplomatic contacts, so that we can find even more points of approach with friends, allies, at least countries that share with us above - below concepts of issues that have to do with peace, security and stability in the region, bear fruit. So this is a very small victory, a small and perhaps first and foremost insignificant step with great added value for the country's total defensive print. With this in mind, I would ask the House to vote in favour of the ratification of these two memoranda of understanding on the creation of centres of excellence in Chania, Crete, on anti-missile and anti-aircraft defence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u72	And we thank the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle of uniformity, the articles and all of the draft laws of the Ministry of National Defence is being declared adjourned and they will be voted on separately. We proceed to vote on the principle of the articles and on the draft law as a whole: ‘Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic) in relation to the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-missile Defence (IAMD COE National MOU)’. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u73	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u74	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u75	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Preparation of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic) in relation to the establishment, administration and operation of the Centre of Excellence for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-Fraud Defence (IAMD COE National MOU)’ was accepted by a majority in principle, articles and total, and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u76	Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: "Following the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic), as well as the Headquarters of the Supreme Allied Transformation Commander of NATO in relation to the functional relationship regarding the Centre for Integrated Anti-American and Anti-Dypical Defence (IAMD COE Financial Relief MoU)". I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u77	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u78	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u79	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of National Defence: ‘Principle of the Memorandum of Understanding between the Ministry of National Defence of the Hellenic Republic, the Ministry of Defence of the Republic of Bulgaria, the Ministry of Defence of the Czech Republic, the Ministry of National Defence of Romania and the Ministry of National Defence of the Republic of Turkey (acting on behalf of the Government of the Turkish Republic), as well as the NATO Supreme Allied Transformation Commander's headquarters in relation to the functional relationship with the Centre for Integrated Anti-Air Force and Anti-Nuclear Defence (IAMD COE Functional Relictionship MoU)’ has been accepted by a majority in principle, the articles and the total and has as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u80	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u81	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-24-S1-commons.u82	With the agreement of the House at 12.20 p.m., the sitting on Monday, September 27, 2021, at 13.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, is closed: 25/20/16-7-2021 topical and urgent debate.
