ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance: a. Settlement of the State's Financial Report for the year 2019. b. Settlement of the Balance Sheet and other Financial Statements of the Central Command, reference period 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019. The State's balance sheet and balance sheet shall be discussed as laid down in the Rules of Procedure with a similar application of Articles 122, 123, 8-, 107 and 97. In accordance with Rule 107, which applies accordingly, the Conference of Presidents at its meeting on 11 November this year decided to hold the debate at a meeting with an organised debate. In particular, the rapporteurs, the special speakers, the ministers and the speakers will be present at this sitting. Only the rapporteurs after the last speaker's speech has been completed have the right to secondary education in this procedure. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u2	The House has agreed. Please open the email record system. Members who wish to speak can be registered until the end of the second rapporteur, that is to say Mr Spankis Vasilis and Mrs Papantzis Catherine will speak. Immediately the system will be closed. So the rapporteur for the New Democracy, Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis, has now had the floor for eight minutes. I would ask that the time be strictly respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of being rapporteur in this important parliamentary procedure for the ratification of the State's accounts and balance sheet for 2019. In December 2020, the Minister of Finance submitted to the Parliament a statement on State revenue and expenditure for 2019 and the balance sheet and other financial statements of the central administration for that period in accordance with Article 79(7) of the Constitution. The balance sheet, balance sheet and other financial statements have been drawn up by the General Accounting Office of the State and are accompanied by the Court of Auditors' report. A detailed presentation of the Court of Auditors' report by the President and the advisors of the Court of Auditors was presented to the committee responsible. We have received very interesting information and all the questions have been answered. The first key element to be noted is that the financial statements for the financial year 2019 are the first to be drawn up in the context of the accounting reform in the public sector, originally established by Law 4270/2014 and subsequently by B.D. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, with the d.d. 54/2018 set out the principles, rules and time for the implementation of the general government accounting framework. Greece has committed itself with this presidential decree to adopt international accounting standards in the public sector. By applying the accounting reform as well as subjecting the financing of the new central government information system, the government sets solid foundations for the State to know its assets accurately. The central administration is the first to implement from 1-1-2019 gradually and with a transitional period of four years the accounting policy for the first implementation of the accounting framework, adopted by the relevant decision in July 2020 by the Deputy Finance Minister. The new accounting framework of the general government was drawn up on the basis of the relevant international accounting standards and aims to improve the financial information provided by the State to taxpayers, investors, lenders, citizens. From the situations, the detailed information given to us and from the Court of Auditors' report has come up with some important and extremely interesting conclusions, which have also been particularly illustrated by the presentation of the report. I would therefore like to begin by saying this very briefly, and I shall refer to it in detail as a follow-up to my suggestion. Firstly, we must move forward immediately, speed up the recording of the public's fixed assets. It was also noted at the meeting of the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection several times. It is unreasonable to see in the financial statements on 31-12-2018 65 million buildings, 140 million equipment, 1.9 billion in other items and 31-12-2019 in the accounts to see '0'. The second is the comparison of established and collected revenues. By analyzing this collection - and I will detail the figures below - in the five years 2015-2019 we see that this percentage is reduced every year. This shows, on the one hand, the possibility of collecting these revenues, on the other hand, proves the failure of the policies followed by the previous government which, during a recession, had overtax policies. The third element I would like to mention is the non-recording of the unreported revenues of our country's customs which, according to the financial statements, amounted to EUR 31-12-2019 at EUR 5,91 billion. And a fourth important element that I shall analyse is the impairment of requirements and, of course, the rate of their collection. All these elements, which will be analysed, must also be seen in relation to two other elements - and that is worth it - namely consumption and, of course, gross domestic product and the figures - those who read ELSTAT's communications, of course - are very positive for both 2019 and the coming years, because we need to be optimistic about the future of the Greek economy and the results will be very good in the coming years. According to the State’s revenue and expenditure statement 2019, the total non-financial revenues of the State amounted to EUR 55,15 billion, increased by 1,72 billion compared to 2018, which amounted to 53,39 billion. As I mentioned before, an analysis of previous years 2015-2019 in terms of revenue received. According to the table above, which I will also present in the minutes, there is a decrease in revenue received for 2016 to 2018, while an increase for 2019 to 55 billion is observed. That table I'm tabling for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In particular, it is noted that the revenue received for 2015 was 41,35 % of the established revenue, which is continuously falling until 2019 to 30,57 %. I am tabling this table in the Minutes so that it can be made available to our Parliament and to our colleagues. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For a further analysis of this point of view - because I want what we say here to prove it - I give you another table, which I shall table in the Minutes, for the balance to be collected for the years 2015-2019. More specifically, the balance receivable is growing. In 2015 it was 86,64 billion, in 2016 94,24 billion, in 2017 100,34 billion, in 2018 104,22 billion and in 2019 it amounts to 105,09 billion, i.e. 56% - look - of the Gross Domestic Product estimated at around EUR 187,5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u4	And now how much is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u5	I'll see you around. The main factors, which contributed to the formation of the recoverable balance of 105.09 billion, are EUR 28.62 billion unrealistic tax claims, EUR 10.88 billion unrealistic claims from guarantee repayments, 63.33 billion unrealised claims from fines, penalties and charges. The remnant of the statement is not included, as I said before, in the unregulated debts of 5.91 billion established by customs in our country. The non-registration of unreported customs revenue, of course, is contrary to the provisions of the Constitution, according to which all revenue and expenditure of the State must be recorded in the annual budget and accounts. It is worth mentioning the revenue received in 2019 of 55.11 billion, where we have 84.39% to be from taxes: 33% from the income tax on natural and legal persons, 34% from VAT, 15% from excise duties on consumption and 6% from HICP and taxes on immovable property. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like your tolerance a little. It really is worth mentioning some of the facts in Parliament. Another element to be reported is the deletion of revenue. In total for 2019, revenue write-offs amounted to EUR 15.04 billion, which is increased by 12.25 billion or 436,65 % compared to 2018. The main revenue write-offs - and keep this - relate to EUR 534 million in revenue write-offs from repayments of guarantees by the Greek State for loans to companies, agencies and bodies of the general government. In relation to the previous year an increase of 1.113.64% is recorded. We have 158 million euros for taxpayers' debts due to limitations. Costs not including costs of financial transactions and other costs amounted to 49,63 billion. The main payments - and keep for payments because I mention this - by category: 25.26 billion in domestic transfers, hospitals, Ottas, social security agencies, 13.3 billion in employee benefits, 1.18 billion in subsidies, 697 million in social benefits. The categories of expenditure with the large excesses - to see some overruns in relation to the budget - are, as is clear from a table I will present in the Minutes, from transfers, subsidies, social benefits and payments for purchases of fixed assets. In terms of transfers, overruns are due to three specific reasons: first, increased payments - in 2019 we are talking about transfers to social security institutions and, in particular, to the ECA to cover pensions in 2019, second, payments to investment grants to local government for buildings and infrastructures and, third, increased payments to investment grants to other legal persons. However, grants and the first case for pensions and the third constitute expenditure of the Public Investment Programme. This painting is at your disposal. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis - Peter Spanakis, presents for the minutes the table above, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as social benefits are concerned, overrun is due to payments of other preferential benefits, such as Social Solidarity Income, heating allowance and others. With regard to the balance sheet - and I am closing down, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance - the balance sheet and other equity statements have been drawn up for the first time on the basis of the principles, as I said before, of the general government accounting framework. This is a great change that should not be made to fine letters and a challenge, if you like, for the future of the country. According to this first application, we are applying provisions to what is possible, progressively and with a view to the end of the transitional period, which I said earlier for the period, to apply to all the elements involved. Requirements shall be measured at the recoverable amount at the reference date, i.e. what is expected to be recovered. In the start-up balance and at the reference date impairments have been calculated in the financial claims presented in that account so that they can be adjusted to the amount that is reasonably expected to be collected. The impairment for the categories of claims has been calculated on the basis of the mobile average of the collection factors for the last five reference periods. Thus, for the first time, a impairment of the claims by EUR 101,4 billion has arisen due to their new way of measuring and recognising them and in order for their balance to return the claims actually collected in order to contribute to the true and reasonable presentation of the entity’s financial position and financial performance. In the table I will table in the Minutes, the impairments of 101.4 billion requirements are presented at 31-12-2019 by category and it is worth saying that this 101.4 billion has been done in a specific way and does not mean that they have been deleted. We're talking about accounting deletion. In no case shall it affect the claims of the central administration against third parties and does not prejudge the final collection. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, the rate of collection is determined by a particular type, which we have mentioned. In conclusion, Mr President, as far as the balance sheet is concerned, the overall result was a deficit of EUR 3,44 billion, while the net position is negatively shaped by 318,13 billion and is burdened by the previous financial year by 101,14 billion. However, the country's net position, in my personal view - and I am presenting this to the Greek Parliament - is positive, because this government will proceed immediately to the IAEA register, in a detailed and modern way, where we will be able to know what the country's fixed assets are, which has not been done so far. And the net position will return positive, as we say in accounting. In conclusion, the balance sheet and balance sheet reflect the reality and we need to stress the importance they have. Our priority is our tax policy, which must go in a direction of reducing tax rates and increasing the collection of tax revenue. Therefore, our Parliament, all Parliament's wings, should vote in favour of the balance sheet, balance sheet, financial statements for 2019. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr. Spankee. The SYRIZA rapporteur, Mrs Catherine Papanatziou, now has the floor. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the 2019 budget was a first step towards the post-mortem course of the country. At that point, the fiscal stability programmes had affected the country, the economy and society to such an extent that only before the war could we think of such a humanitarian and economic crisis. The two successful adjustment programmes, with the country excluded from foreign lending, reduced GDP by 25%. If we think about it well, it's a shocking number for a country in the modern societies of developed countries. But there we were because of the poor management of public finances, PASOK and New Democracy, before the crisis of 2008-2009, where budget and external balance deficits exceeded 15%. We have therefore been guided by steady steps in increasing income and social inequalities. The fact is that in 2012 households at the lower 20% of income scale only held 6.4 of the total income, and inversely households at 20% of the upper income scale held 40.3% of the total income. The poverty rate was 35.8% in 2012, escalating to 44.3% of 2013 and 48% in 2014. These figures, together with unemployment, show one thing: The management of the economy by the two parties has led to bankruptcy, which has inherited the Memorandum programmes. Is it too reassuring for your mental peace to talk about SYRIZA's four-year-olds, but can you not say a single word, an account of the country's bankruptcy? It is boring to answer you the same whenever the story of the country's destruction begins in 2015 honestly. It is frankly tiring, but unfortunately it also shows the size of your hypocrisy policy. So here, in all these problems, the problem is that the way out of the programmes is not as clear as the Deputy Minister has told us. But let us say a few words about the 2019 budget and I will come back to it. Our aim was initially to decapitate the Greek economy from the commission of international organisations and to recover degrees of freedom in the form of economic policy and ultimately to recover national sovereignty in public finances. A prerequisite for achieving this decapitation was for our country to be able to borrow freely and with low interest rates on international markets, to be able to refinance public debt without problems, the debt created in previous years by 2015. But that is not possible on its own, especially when the country has unfortunately lost its strength, and that you know is self-proof, no matter how much you are not apologising for it. It was therefore necessary to restore the credibility of Greek debt, Greek debt securities and also, in general, fiscal policy and confidence in the prospects of the Greek economy. That is why it was necessary to create a primary budgetary surplus so that public debt could be paid, but at the same time it could be reduced. But, as I have said several times and as I have said in committee, here we have another separation from the model of New Democracy. For us development is not a one-dimensional obsession. Economic recovery and fiscal order are shaped or must be created in a fair manner. No development is sustainable if it is primarily not socially fair. Although the 2019 budget was another surplus budget, it was at the same time an expansive budget, however contradictory this may sound. At the time, therefore, this budget was trying to give financial space to fair growth. The budget we are discussing has had a reduction in contributions and taxes and an increase in social costs, despite the limitations of the Stability Pact and other European budgetary rules. First of all, it was the non-enforcement of the measure of the cut-off of the main and ancillary pensions, the reduction of the HPAI, in which you ran to include the large assets of more than EUR 1 million in the second half of 2019, the reduction of 1/3 of the main rate of social security for professionals, self-employed persons and farmers and the application of a minimum income base for supplementary insurance and a one-off payment, the granting of housing allowances to households who pay a rent or a instalment of housing loan with income and property criteria, the reduction of the dividend tax from 15% to 10%, the application of the insurance contribution to young workers, the recruitment of four and a half thousand teachers and specialised staff to strengthen the special treatment, the permanentisation of three thousand employees for the “Helps in Home” programme, the application of the ‘one to one’ rule for recruitment in the public sector in 2019, the abolition of the fee for cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives and cooperatives, and cooperatives. In addition, in 2019, the reduction of VAT on energy, the reduction of VAT on concerts and the reduction in the standard rate of VAT on specific goods was followed. You have received an economy with growth of 1,48%, with GDP at EUR 187,4 billion, and a positive financial result with revenues at EUR 55 billion and expenditure at EUR 48,6 billion. The third programme was therefore the only one that was completed. Whatever criticism can be made of this, we make it first, because it was not what we wanted, but it was the best we could have on the basis of the situation we received. However, this programme has led to a series of relief measures and the settlement of public debt, which included reductions in interest rates, postponement and prolongation of repayment periods. These measures have made it sustainable, which is reflected on page 65 of the Court of Auditors' report on the 2019 balance sheet. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened carefully to the Minister, who has said quite useful and technical things in committee. However, I would like to make a few points. I heard that there should be no reference to 109 billion overdue. Here we have a serious differentiation - and this is not the first time - of the opposition New Democracy with the Government of New Democracy. As the Deputy Minister of Finance at that time, I remember with heat the opposition New Democracy was talking about the delays and drainage of the real economy, and every week we also had a question about the delays, where it was obviously less than it is today. However, I follow the reasoning of the Deputy Minister and in some respects we agree, but when was the New Democracy right, the New Democracy as an opposition or now as a government? On a second point, I would like to reassure the Deputy Minister not to feel badly. You don't see visions. Supervision is something that is common in countries that leave support programmes and where new measures do not exist, but there is a monitoring of some existing actions. It was very clear that our country's exit was too. But that's not the biggest problem, I guess. Perhaps you should explain why the opposition, New Democracy, then, was shouting about the credit line, which should follow the way out of the programmes. Because that's what your resignation was saying then, Minister. We answered what it was and why we wanted the cash buffer. Can you tell us if the opposition was right then? Because, as I hear you, you're probably supporting the necessity of the pillow. Finally, for overtaxation, we have said so several times. In recent years, as in 2018, 2019, a clear increase in tax revenue has been observed. The increase in tax revenue that has occurred in our own governance is directly linked to positive results that we have had from the reduction of tax evasion. The central factor in this was the vertical increase in plastic money in Greece as well as the voluntary disclosure programme. Let us note again that the tax measures amounted to 36 billion between 2010 and 2014. These are without expenditure reduction measures. So to know who's talking about overtax. In conclusion, I would like to make two points, even if they are concise. We're now entering winter. The pandemic situation is at its worst. We have more than seventy casualties a day. It's a very serious matter. It's the worst thing that could happen after two years of pandemic. We are not talking here about criticism of policies. We're talking about inappropriate. You have surrendered to the mercy of pandemic, on the one hand, mocking ears of negative ones, on the other hand, in your public and private perception. Do something. I won't say anything more. Our President and our parliamentary group have tabled proposals. Do something. People die unfairly. Finally, these days we have seen the figures for rising inflation to 3% to 4%. This week we also saw the statement by the Minister on the progress of the budget in October. Minister, I was amazed that you admit that the world is paying, without you, of course, helping it with regard to pandemic debts. You are simply recommending to businesses for restraint in the face of dynamic growth. It is a monument to this statement, the praise of the act. The only thing you can see, that is, you're the one who's got the revenue rise. Congratulations! But, in essence, that is what they will do, Minister, with what you are saying. They will continue the growth tendencies, firstly, because, according to your statement, people are paying, secondly, because they will gain and see and thirdly, they will understand that you will not try to stop this course. In the investigation of the company of Senior Operations, which was sent to all of us, 56% of the respondents believe that the Greek economy will be affected by the appreciations. The rate is increasing to 69% compared to industry and while 65% feels that the competitiveness of companies will also be affected as a result of increased energy prices. I have nothing more to add. Your policy reminds you of the title of study known as the oblivion of the act, but, apart from the fact that Chinese philosophy does not need to distinguish design and effect relationships. Your perspective doesn't even stand out the need for planning. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, too, Mrs. Papanaceu. Is there a colleague who hasn't said to talk? From what I can see, no. I would therefore ask that we close the system for the electronic recording of speakers. Before giving the floor to Mr Scandalides, I have a statement to make to this House. The Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Justice and Immigration and Asylum, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, submitted a draft law on 17-11-2021: ‘Definition of the Protocol between the Governments of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia implementing the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’. Also, the Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Justice, Migration and Asylum, Maritime and Island Policy and State, as well as the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, tabled a draft law on 17-11-2021: "Standardization of the Memorandum of Understanding" between the Ministry of Civil Protection of the Hellenic Republic and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) for hosting a Frontex Association in the Hellenic Republic". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Let us get to know you, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, that four fellow Members have said to speak. The reason is the special speaker of the Movement of Change, Kostas Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is impossible to speak today in this House and not to mention what is happening today in relation to the pandemic. Another letter from the Prime Minister for once will be heard this afternoon, with a government that runs behind the facts. In the questions we have raised these days - and I personally from previous plenary sittings - he is not answering. It does not answer why people die here when in the other European countries they have reached little deaths. Neither does the scientific community explain it, nor does the government. He does not answer why today's description of the newspapers in primary care is being dismantled, constantly underwented. He does not answer why he does not make a general decision about compulsory vaccination of those who come into contact with a lot of people every day. It does not answer why it does not interfere with the uninterrupted politics of epidemiologists and in the science of the ministers, who are confusing, uncertain, insecurity and terror in every Greek home. It does not answer these questions and has only to give rise to misinterpretations, advice and fragmentary and incomplete measures. Only proclamations. I don't want to take you away. Look at today's "KATHMERINI", a government newspaper. There are three cartoons. All three make fun of the Prime Minister for his today's proclamation. On the other hand, however, I hear that a controversy is being announced by the Chief of Officerial Opposition. These problems are not solved by proclamations and oppositions. This country is not worth accepting this, this policy. The question that each citizen has is when the political forces will finally discuss a coherent and comprehensive plan that is going to run into real events, to take our responsibility, so that other problems can be solved that divide the Greek society today. When? Does the government think that? Will he bring in a suggestion sometime? We have called her on several occasions for this. Minister, I understand that this debate and for you who are a practical man is a little delightful: numbers, numbers of past importance. I have heard the majority rapporteur make an ambitious effort to list numbers and explain why he is voting for the budget report that the New Democracy voted against in 2019. What is the point of all this and what this debate is contributing to, where the House will take a formal decision - as it ought - and this is not the reason for a government's initiative for this forced process of adopting a budget in the past few years to have a broader debate on what development has been achieved, by what procedures. To have a debate on the substance at last. And we bring the Court of Auditors here - very well we do - draws up a whole analysis of the figures and puts a few questions, which are usually answered, because every year the same is repeated. The same is true of the ones that have been repeated this time. Why, for example, do uncertified revenues not appear as a receivable balance? That was in last year's remarks. The limited participation of certain general government bodies in the Bank of Greece's common capital was a observation last year. The use of the regular reserve appropriations for expenditure not falling within its purpose is again the same observation that took place last year. The comments are made every year. At least they are not answered by the government by means of a new procedure, for example - and I say one example - a civil protection budget in advance with the state budget, that there should be a respected budget not taken from the reserve every time, so that the reserve can also be directed towards specific directions that the substance, procedure and its objective say. We are not even correcting the standard of distribution and procedures, and then we say why this is not going on in the economy. It is clear that these accounts are not so great, I repeat, of importance. That is why I, Mr Minister, will, in essence, repeat the suggestion I made to the committee on the occasion of this debate a broader economic account of the two-year period of your government. The implementation of this budget in full is tangible proof of what we denounce from the first day, because we recall that the 19th budget was one whose implementation was timelylyly shared between SYRIZA and New Democracy. The Government of New Democracy did not intend to renegotiate any of the heavy inheritances of SYRIZA. Of course, here I must admit that SYRIZA, as I understand it, will vote in favour of the report because it was his budget and that contradiction has been resolved. For you who have voted against the 19th budget and today you are voting in favour of its report in the second half of the year, because the second half of the year was the continuation of the SYRIZA policy of the first half. The absurd primary surplus of 3.5% has not been negotiated. The mortgage of public property through the Supreme Court for ninety years has not been renegotiated. The lifting of the first residence protection after the abolition of the PASOK law did not fix it. The abolition of the CSCE did not replace it. All of this means that you have followed the same policy, with, of course, the commitment of public property where it is clear that there is still no register of public property in the fund. There is no knowledge of what this public property has finally been granted and is not listed on a specific list to know what is happening to us. The primary surplus has therefore been revised because of a health crisis throughout Europe, but the other commitments remain. In fact, in order to remember that the partners do not stop reminding us of these commitments in the decision to approve the first of the Recovery Fund's resources four times the post-programme commitments made by the SYRIZA Government in the Eurogroup on 22 June 2018 are mentioned. That is where red loans were managed through the new Banking Code - plundering introduced by the Government, commitments to continue and complete a series of privatizations, as well as deregulations in the labour market and products. In this decision the New Democracy brings an alibi that she was not responsible herself, she did not make decisions, but some choices could be made and fundamentally overthrow this reality. For example, I will mention briefly why some deliberate New Democracy's choices were not foreseen in the Eurogroup's decision on economic policy, namely that the New Democracy would make Greece the country with the lowest dividend tax - only 5% - in the European Union, which is known to be an incentive for disinvestment rather than a further investment by entrepreneurs. For example, one of the first things that would be voted on is the favorable taxation of bonuses granted to corporate executives in the form of shares or/or options. For example, it would have relieved from the property donation tax of three hundred thousand to eight hundred thousand euros to promote the institution of the family, as they have written in the explanatory memorandum on euphemism. For example, it would speed up further day after day the unfair mixture of tax policy for people's households with the continuous increase in the proportion of indirect - direct taxes that began from the first year of governance of the SYRIZA and continues to date. That it would cover the financial sector executives, after predicted that if the infidelity turns directly against credit or advisory or financial institution or financial sector firms, indictment is required, at the time of publications that some powerful people have achieved debt write-offs of up to 90% from banks and funds. That it would "built" EUR 2,36 billion of public property held by the fund through convertible bonds, as well as the property of private shareholders of EUR 300 million for the benefit of Piraeus's corner investors, as they self-described. We have had these debates here several times in Parliament. That he would draw up a plan for the critical resources of the Recovery Fund in pre-formal dialogue and privileged interlocutors that concerns few and not many. That it has shown due diligence to workers, to favour commercial activity in favour of productive activity in the people's markets, to reduce exceptionally the rate of income tax from 44% anticipated by the income scale of over 40 thousand to 22% for incomes acquired by professional athletes and coaches, to establish preferential tax regimes in the name of attracting residents abroad without any connection to investment and employment, to finally make financial offices from local players and local bishops. To reduce the time limits of the asset freeze measures by the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from criminal activities. This is a brief but substantial account of the works and days of your Government, and obviously this account cannot be approved by our list, nor by the 2019 sub-chapter. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Georgios Arvanitidis, Member of the Thessaloniki European Parliament of the Change Movement, with the President of Parliament, is asking him to be granted a short-day absence abroad from November 18, 2021 until November 22, 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u11	The House therefore approved the requested permission. It is known to the House that the Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance, Foreign Affairs, National Defence, Justice and Immigration and Asylum, as well as the Deputy Ministers of Finance and Foreign Affairs, submitted 17-11-2021 a draft law: ‘Definition of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Montenegro on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’. Furthermore, the Ministers of Civil Protection, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Home Affairs, Justice and State, as well as the Deputy Minister of Finance, submitted a draft law on 17-11-2021: "Definition of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania on the establishment and operation of a centre for police and customs cooperation". They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing to the House the issue of Friday 19 November 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 169/10-11-2021 of the Greek MP, Mr. Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Signature of a Presidential Decree for the construction of PAOK’s ‘New Toumba’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 171/11-11-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamulaki to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Who is the design of the Ministry of Environment and Energy for the urban reconstruction of the earthquakes in Heraklion?" 3. The question by No 183/15-11-2021 of the Member of the Rodopi Movement of Change, Ilhan Ahmet, to the Minister of Health, on "Inadmissible and antisocial the suspension of the regional hospitals in the mountainous volume of Rhodope". 4. The question by No. 179/15-11-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The workers at the National Museum of Contemporary Art". 5. The 185/15-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The HYTA Gender poisons the air of western Athens and Lecanopedi". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 170/10-11-2021 topical question by Mr.Athens of New Democracy, Mr. Fotinis Pipilis, to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'No special infrastructure for the use of electric cars'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Socrates Famelou, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Socrates Famelou, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Successfulness and inadequacy of the government against the wave of precision in energy". 3. The question by number 187/15-11-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "A need for immediate conservation measures for the monuments of the earthquakes of the overlapping areas". 4. The 186/15-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "THAT TEMBlonio Corfu and Stations for Transhipment of Waste (SPA)". 5. The 184/15-11-2021 topical question by MP Korinthias of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Inadmissible inactivity in the operation of the new Clinic Firefighting Clinic and the anti-nuclear armour of the wider region". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 364/15-10-2021, by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Trouble Risks from Floods". Mr. Vassiliardos, special speaker of the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the committee that was preceded by the Minister, he triumphed over the Commission's forecasts, according to which the recovery of Greece in 2021 would be 7.1%. In this respect, apart from the fact that, based on our forecasts long ago, it will be set at 7.5% to 8.5% as a result of the better development of tourist revenue, hidden inflation and support for our economy with the atrocious sum of EUR 42.7 billion in loans - we stress, with lending - we do not understand any triumph at all, especially after our GDP has fallen from EUR 183,64 billion in 2019 to EUR 167,07 billion in 2020, according to ELSTAT, as we will present in the Minutes, EUR 165.8 billion in the preliminary draft budget - but that is not this important one - it is lost GDP of EUR 16,57 billion, while in 2021 it will only be recovered at around EUR 12 billion in line with the Community's forecasts. Therefore, the only thing the government has managed to do with EUR 42.7 billion in loan is to reduce our GDP by about 4.5 billion in 2020-2021 compared to 2019. This looks like a business that gives customers EUR 100,000 free borrowed to buy its products without even increasing its turnover but reducing it. Would the Undersecretary really do it in his own business? Is that true reason for the government to triumph? However, when Greece has again monstrous twin deficits and great twin debts of 387 billion public and 244 billion red private, as well as an external debt of $525 billion increased by $ 125 billion in just three years. Does the growth in our external debt not mean that our economy's competitiveness has been lost again despite painful internal devaluation? Isn't this the same conclusion being made by the rapid increase in our trade deficit, as will we testify in the Minutes later on? What was of interest, of course, is the confirmation by the Minister of Ministers of the continuation of the memoranda where the name of the Troika's institutions has just changed before with "reinforced supervision" today. As he said, he did not understand how clear the exit from the memorials that SYRIZA invoked, since every three months he meant - there are some gentlemen who don't see them in visions that belong to enhanced supervision. It was also interesting to refer to the pillow, according to which the difference is that the New Democracy fills it with loan, while SYRIZA with surpluses. Would he really like to borrow in one of his own companies to have capital reserves instead of making profits? With regard to low-interest borrowing, we all know that it is due to the European Central Bank that buys all Greek bonds. The confidence of creditors is due to the fact that it is certain that the current government, on the one hand, will follow their orders faithfully and, on the other hand, will sell the entire public property, while on the other it will sell private property, thus changing our country's ownership status. In the balance sheet - now 2019, we have put a number of questions that have not been answered, reiterating only the following for which we hope to receive an answer today. In particular, in relation to participations, the total is EUR 23.56 billion, which means that this is an extremely low amount if you look at them in detail. We have done so by presenting the data to previous accounts, while the audit conference says that the valuation is also problematic on the basis of international accounting standards. In relation to last year, at least an update has been made on the basis of their accounting values on 31-12-2018, although it is not objective. Controlled by the Supreme Court by a foreign entity not subject to parliamentary scrutiny. Our questions here are as follows: First, why is the Hypertension included, namely the EPA, in relation to related or controlled enterprises, since we have 100%, we do not appoint a board of directors? Secondly, how can it be worth only EUR 2,99 billion on page 61, while it holds the entire Greek public property together with the EBRD, the FSC and the HSE? And thirdly, why does the CFSF appear separately with EUR 5.1 billion despite being a subsidiary of the CSF: should this be a double count, that is, should it not be a form of consolidation? The ten ports are also very low, although there is an update of their accounting value at 120 million from 112 million previously. Is it true that the value of the other ports is recorded, since Greece has more than a hundred? Also where is the list of at least twenty three airports not allocated to the ‘FRAPORT’? If they are in the Supreme Court, then why are they not registered here, like the ports, which also belong to the Supreme Court? Will the matter be resolved when the State's Freight Register is finally established? Furthermore, why does the Agricultural Bank belonging to the CFS include, while cleaning up PQH and Olympic Airlines in participation? Furthermore, as we mentioned, the process continues in the same line as the 2017 and 2018 accounts as regards the negative picture of the same accounting defects previously identified without having changed something. Our first point, which is enough not to accept the balance sheet, was the negative net position of the citizens at EUR 318 billion other than EUR 217 billion last year due to the huge deletion of the claims, which we had pointed out, but we did not think it would be EUR 101 billion in the end. In simple terms, if Greece sold out everything it has and did not have in 2019 it would have a debt of EUR 318 billion which would obviously have to pay the citizens. According to the Minister, there has, of course, not been a proper valuation of the country's assets, which are very large despite the fact that the register had been provided for since 2014, something that has been launched for 2022 -- so the Minister said - by entrusting one and only interested party. Oddly enough, a single interested party. But even if that is the case, why have at least the fixed assets transferred to the Supreme Court of Foreign Affairs not been properly valued? As we mentioned earlier, how can it be worth just EUR 2.99 billion, while it holds the entire Greek public property together with the EBRD, the FSC and the HSE? Obviously this is not a question of lack of a register of fixed assets, but of accounting inadequacy if not of feasibility of the Overseas and the vows, where one is not wrong in the U.S. is DELOITTE and the EBRD or the PWC. In any case, the State should not sign such balance sheets with regard to the above companies, recalling here the following from the passing debate: Is it not a criminal offense to transfer unvalued public funds to the Supreme Court, and especially to the EBRD in a foreign entity? In particular, the Court of Auditors’ report for 2018 states that the total number of real estate held by the EBRD amounts to approximately seventy thousand, of which only two thousand five hundred twenty-nine have been made. The EBRD balance sheet in 2018 appears to have seventy thousand five hundred real estate worth 900 million, that is, under 13,000 euros each. It is possible when it comes to two hundred ten tourist properties, such as hotels, marinas, ski golf, etc. eight Olympic and about seventy thousand real estate titles of public private property? Is the average accounting value of twenty-three real estate in the HSY to be EUR 322, and the total EUR 36,659? Isn't it a shame to mention such numbers? Continuing, is it not strange if not suspected that so many other reforms were not imposed by the troika on the proper display of public property? Much less so when the troika has been involved since the first day in the recording of civil servants and in the Land register. On the other hand, is LARCO not shameful, the modern gold mine of nickel, as we will testify in the Minutes - we have also tabled a timely question - to be valued at zero value? Also, ODA which modernises F-16 and ELVO are both of zero value. The value of CSR is only estimated at EUR 7,5 million. I close with the Court of Auditors' observations. They are less than eighteen years ago, as far as the number is concerned, but the most important remain, as the following. First, the non-registration of the debts established and pending for recovery from the customs offices of the country. Secondly, the absence of a freeze register. Thirdly, the question of advances on the obligations of armaments programmes. In conclusion, therefore, this is an unacceptable and unreliable balance sheet which is not worth both Greeks and today's debate or any discussion. Even worse, it is dangerous if it is considered a basis for decision-making, for example in terms of the value of public participations so that they can be sold later at degrading prices. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too, Mr. Villardo. I will give the floor to Mr. George Logiadis, the special speaker of Mera25. Immediately after Mr. Logiadis, the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Theodoros Skakakis will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today, we are discussing the state's balance sheet and balance sheet for 2019. Our first observation is that you bring the 2019 balance sheet and balance sheet two years later. You should've brought him last year and not this year. The Court of Auditors itself says that, for another year, the State's fixed elements are not recorded, secondly, there are no non-existent requirements established by the customs offices of the country and thirdly, the obligations arising from the armaments programmes have not been recorded. All this creates a distorted and incorrect picture of the valuation and imprinting of the economic elements of the state. The Deputy Minister has mentioned the following to our committee. I read exactly. "Unfortunately, this very large public property had never been able to measure it properly." Not all of you who have ruled Greece over time have succeeded in building the Land register. How will you value one thing, a value that you don't know what and how much it is? So when the state officially acknowledges these distortions how it is possible to vote in favour of the 2019 accounts and balance sheet? Essentially, you're unconscious. The Minister says that 'the government has now begun to find a contractor to register these public assets. I read exactly what the Minister said. ‘The competition is progressing normally. We didn't have a lot of offers. It was an offer. So we have a contractor." Our remarks here. The competition is progressing properly. A sentence with three words. All three wrong. "Contest" is not a competition since there is only one offer, as you said, Minister. Will one of them compete with one another and one of whom? He's himself? "It's evolving" what do you mean? Since he didn't have another second and third offer. It's not evolving. That's it. And the third word is 'normal': what regularity are you talking about? You distort the concept of words. I'm sorry. You also said: 'It was one offer, so we will have a contractor'. The next? The specified one? The one who imposes us on us from above and outside? In our opinion, we have no credibility, incompetence perfectly. The Minister spoke of EUR 109 billion of undeclared debts. I read exactly what he said: 'There are, in fact, debts that we should consider on the basis of the fact that they are not recoverable. I would say that we do not take this item seriously, at 109 billion, and look more at the degree to which annual revenue is collected." That's exactly what you said. It's 109 billion. It's not one or two. In addition to the degree of income collection you did not tell us how great the paradoxical economy and tax evasion in Greece is because of collecting incompetence, chronic corruption of the system and over-taxation from the commitment of all three Memorandum governments to achieve the unbearable primary surpluses with which you have committed and enslaved the country. Finally, you said that "we place a great deal of emphasis on what is happening in the budget area, which is the useful element in the state's finances and the main destination". But in a bankrupt state, Minister, what financial freedom do you have? What financial space? Essentially zero. Reinforced surveillance, you call it. Reinforced torture would be us, Mera25. This is reflected in the ongoing catastrophic picture of the public investment programme. The under-utilisation, the delay in the public investment programme referred to in the report of the Court of Auditors is precisely the opposite to what the government should do during a period of crisis, unemployment and a demographic problem in the country. To act countercyclically and to strengthen public investment. The memorials you have signed New Democracy, PASOK, KINAL and SYRIZA have condemned the country to an endless debt prison, depreciation, enslavement and trivialization of the dignity of the Greeks, having handed over to the Supreme Treasury all the public property. Full control and all public property have granted ninety years to the institutions, to the ADP, which is not subject to any parliamentary control, nor to the Ministry of Finance. A further problem identified in the 2019 report is the lack of revenue collection for the public investment programme by the European Union structural and investment funds, once again highlighting the inability and inability to absorb European funds so much needed by the country. You have targeted depreciated municipalities and regions. And it is not possible to absorb funds for the public investment programme through them. They will be absorbed and fruited by many few, many great, your heterogeneous. New Democracy and SYRIZA urges who has achieved better results and who has done the most disastrous management of the crisis, because of course also from the memoranda or enhanced surveillance, as we call it now, we have not even come out of our dreams. The primary surplus arrived in 2019, which we are discussing, in 4.4% of GDP or 8.25 billion euros as both the Memorandum governments proved to be king of the king. We recall that success is mainly credited to SYRIZA since it was his government that committed itself to primary surpluses of more than 2.5% in Eurogroup on 15 June 2017. It was the government of SYRIZA that bound the country to monstrous primary surpluses by 2060. We note the following: the budget that was tabled for 2019 by the then government of SYRIZA and then the New Democracy voted against, the New Democracy is now coming as a government to vote for it. New Republic and SYRIZA both sides of the same currency. For the purposes of this Decision, the following definitions shall apply: As MERA25, we had revealed the lies of both of us and we had already stressed since spring 2020 that the huge losses suffered by the country's GDP in the years of the memorandum were only repaid as little since 2008 to 2013, 66 billion euros were lost, about 26% of GDP, while in the six years between 2013 and 2019 only 10 billion euros were recovered. However, even this tormenting slow anemic recovery proves unstable and uncertain as the country entered a subtle orbit in the fourth quarter of 2019. At the same time, the general government debt continued to be monstrous. No matter how much taxes we pay in public property, no matter how much public property we sell, ports, airports, energy and others, the public debt in 2009 was 125%, in 2012 145%, in 2019 191% and today it is over 210%. Continuingly, we are increasing and we are targeting while the two Memorandum Monuments are playing communal games, competing for who and how much better the loan terms of the country have been negotiated. We Mer25 have been obsessed with the debt and the primary surpluses our lenders have submitted to us as a method of repayment. It's a method that has been temporarily put into ice because of pandemic. From the outset we were shouting that this method is socially destructive and turns our country into a vast debt prison. We stressed that with these extreme austerity policies to concentrate this private sector sacrifice on unsustainable debt is destroying the economy and society, our young people are migrating, the public health, education and welfare system is falling apart. By voting against the 2019 balance sheet and balance sheet, we recall that as a PART25 we insist on our proposal to set up a committee of inquiry to open the file of bankruptcy and memorandums and carry out a thorough investigation of the causes that led to them, while we are the only party that has tabled an integrated proposal for effective protection of citizens and the recovery of our national sovereignty. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Loyadis. The floor will now be taken by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Skylakakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, when are we going to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u17	After the Minister, we will be planning for the parliamentary representatives. For the time being, Mr Katrinis has asked for the floor first and with your consent one of the speakers, Mr Alexiadis, will have to go. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with interest to this debate again, although it has been to a considerable extent repetition of what we have said in the committee as well. I shall try not to repeat myself from my own side and to give some answers on general economic issues, but also on the specifics raised in relation to balance sheet and balance sheet. Let's start by putting a little bit of numbers on their real dimensions. Mr. Logiadis, the public debt is not more than 210%. It'll fall below 200% this year. Also, the GDP we received in 2019 was not 187 billion demonstrated by the statistical service that it was around 4 billion. less. We are now going to two crucial issues of this period. Firstly, regarding the valuations: Increasing revenues does not come from the revaluations, Mrs Papanatsiou, because the rise in inflation recorded, not in August but mainly since September and October, leads to VAT revenues. which are being collected - as you know better than I do, perhaps, because you have worked on it for a long time - in November and December at best, and we still do not have the revenues in November and December. It comes mainly from increased revenues from business tax and VAT due to the rise in tourism and, more generally, from the fact that there is liquidity in businesses and households, which, as you know, have increased their deposits of more than EUR 30 billion. We should not forget that this is a purely exogenous phenomenon in the Greek economy. Greece records less inflation because it comes from a base of deflation and we have - let us say - Spain which has a socialist government and records inflation of 5.2% - far more important than us - and it is not easy for a government to react to the appreciations automatically because there is always a risk that inflation will continue. That's what I say when I talk about restraint. And I do not understand why there should be criticism when we tell business to be noble and reasonable in the way you form your price lists. I don't understand why that's bad. Really. And I have to tell you that companies - and anyone speaking with them, they know - can face up to the phenomenon of inflation in two ways, see it as a threat and make an adjustment necessary to achieve it in relation to the costs of increased costs or see it as an opportunity to increase their profitability. I think that seeing it as an opportunity is a strategic mistake for businesses, especially in an environment of development in which they will be able to lose in a very short time a market share. And that's what we're trying to prevent. We shall now proceed to the issue of the pillow posed by one or two speakers. Having a working capital - this is actually the pillow in terms of a business - is necessary, depending on your credibility. Funding the working capital by shrinking the company is wrong. Anyone who makes a business knows that you'd obviously prefer to have access to borrowing to have a working capital. And that is what we have in our case, having access to borrowing at low interest rates, because there is trust both from the institutions and from the markets. Our interest rates, despite the fact that we are in a period of inflationary pressure, are today looking around 1.2. When we received it, as you know, the last time the state had gone out to borrow, before our own government, it was over 3. This confidence is transformed into a reserve, making use of this period of the European Central Bank and aiming at reaching, within the time frame we had around, the investment grade. Please note that the investment grade is extremely critical because it means that we are finally coming out of a period of enhanced supervision, we are going to an increased supervision - we will not avoid this, but we are not in the enhanced one - and from there on the primary surpluses must be reasonable, but it is necessary for the country to be able to borrow from the markets. Because, regardless of what the institutions say, we must have mild primary surpluses so that we can borrow from the markets. In the next ten or twenty years, we will have a substitution of our own debt, which is currently in the hands of European mechanisms and our partners in Europe, from market debt. That is why I would like us all to be careful about what we say about the country and what we say about the balance sheet and balance sheet. One comment, we are talking about social fair growth - we will come back to this in the budget debate - but I want Parliament to always remember that social equitable development has two legs. One is to try to reduce income inequalities as they appear. And the second is to try to limit the disparities that we measure - and we know that there are and are huge - regarding the inequality between those who pay taxes and those who do not pay taxes. This is a social inequality which we have not sufficiently recorded and which distorts all our social policies. Greece has a VAT gap - an objective way to measure the level of tax evasion - which has fallen slightly in recent years, but which is huge, it is the second largest in Europe - if I remember well - and more than 25%, it is around 26% to 27%. You can understand that this involves a huge injustice, and this injustice distorts and all social policies based on income criteria, which in fact are not true, when you have 27% VAT gap, namely tax evasion. I would like to turn to two points which have been raised and which have been discussed by the Commission. Ice register. That's a huge job. The work that needs to be done, to get real valuation, is not just about coming up and valuing a real estate. It has to do with the legal cleansing of the property in relation to the claims. It is a work of silhouette and any clearing of property, such as Greece with multiple claims and trespasses, is literally tantamount to distinguishing a Gordian bond. It's not easy at all. It's a job to start. It is very important that we have a contractor in an absolutely normal competition. Just because we usually have constant appeals, it is good that I do not expect at least an appeal, because at the end of the day the job will not be done. And you know, you can criticize as a opposition, but then the state and state have to do the works we're talking about. If we don't do the work, we'll stay critical. The State's Ice Register and the State's Warehouse Book are two things we don't have. Note that the Warehouse Book is something any operation has, as you know. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Mr President, I will still need a little more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u19	Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u20	The Warehouse Book is something every operation has. He says what cellular stuff you got and what kind of stock you got. I can assure you that the state does not know the stocks and the mobiles it holds. He doesn't even know the valuation accounts. There it is of great importance to introduce an electronic invoice, which will contain inside codified of every kind or good we buy, so that it can pass directly through the electronic invoice the good in the Warehouse Book. This seems technical, but it is the only way to get a real warehouse book in the state. It is a very deep reform, which I personally put into the debate, when we were planning the practical implementation of the accounting reform. We've got it started and it's going to be extremely refined and in the way we manage mobile things and in any other aspect. Let me ask you one question. Think of the drug storehouses in the hospitals. Do we really know exactly today in an accounting system what is going on? If we go and look for it, we may be able to find a hospital working a drug warehouse, but a single accounting system that we know what's going on, which drugs we have and which we don't have, I assure you there is no. There is at least no such thing as having access to one who can control them as a whole. In conclusion, I should like to repeat something I said in relation to the Court of Auditors' observations. Some of us can deal with them immediately. Some people need more time. Some of us have already dealt with them. For example, the issue of the regular reserve and the need to be used for expenditure not entirely exceptional, we have solved it with the special reserve which is a positive reform and allows us to finance uncertain expenditure which is not of an exceptional nature. I would like to address two points on which I should like to reply to Mr Scandalidis - although I do not see him here - why he repeated them twice. The dividends, Mr. Scandalides, are not an incentive to disinvest. The reduction in dividend tax is an investment incentive, because at the end of the day, and especially small and medium-sized enterprises, have the need to take this money for people to live. You know, there are businessmen who live by their work. There are dozens and hundreds of thousands of businessmen who live from their jobs and if you come overtaxes, it makes sense that they will seek to do something else, or another job, or a way of avoiding taxation and not investing. Apparently they won't invest if they can't live. You're about to be able to live, especially if you're a small and medium-sized enterprise and then invest. It is therefore not an incentive to deinvest. Also, to say about the money given to executives. You know, the main problem the Greek economy has is the lack of managers, because we have kicked hundreds of thousands of people out of the country in the period after 2011 and all of them have been globally competitive. All these would be critical business executives. If you don't have the business managers, you don't have investments, you don't have growth, you have nothing. And note that business executives have been taxing and taxing more heavily than companies - that is the reality - and now beforehand. Is it not unreasonable to tax labour worse than capital and to expel critical people from the country? Why would we get them out of the country? We've thrown out tens of thousands, and now we're giving them a tax exemption to go back. And when we talk about Brain Drain and Brain Gain we all agree, but when we talk about practical measures then, to turn Brain Drain into Brain Gain, we are making opposition criticism. To close with a positive breeze, let me say this. Our public finances - and this is an achievement of all this House and of all governments after 2010 - are much clearer today than many other European countries. We are a country that counts our deficit to the last euro. I assure you that is not the case in the other countries of Europe. Good or bad we have very purely public finances. I should like to praise all the governments who have done this work, less to our own, because a large part had been completed, mainly from the first but also from the later governments of that period. This means that we have a positive element for the markets. Balance sheet and balance sheet, when the two largest parties, government and Civic Opposition are voting for, is also a positive element for markets and institutions. I would say that we can make criticism and, thank God, there is criticism and dialogue and all that. We can, however, keep the balance sheet and balance sheet, which is the measure of what is happening, outside the usual controversy to try at least to agree on the elements. That would be my encouragement, and I think we are going that way. And that is good, and I find nothing contradictory by SYRIZA voting for this balance sheet and balance sheet, and it also has one of ours and by voting for this balance sheet and balance sheet, and it had a piece of SYRIZA. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Floor Alexiadis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank the honourable Members who gave me the order. There is an obligation in committee and I have to be there to vote. Thank you very much for giving me the show, I do not often ask for it, and for the facilitation. As far as today's debate is concerned, I was pleased to hear you say, Minister, first of all, about what you said to be careful about. I fully endorse this because, if I sit down and see what the New Democracy said - I do not want to talk to you personally - as opposition and what it does as a government, we fully understand the failure of both opposition tactics and government. Now, you're right, you're talking with numbers. We're talking with evidence. The period of propaganda and misinformation is over. You have too much equipment in the mass media, with the information I wanted to say, you have too much equipment, but it can't cover the data, and there are certain data now. Every time he goes up here, in Stepa, a New Democracy official, and many of you have a past both in the House and outside the House, he comes out and has a specific account. I ask: what is the New Democracy account of what happened before 2015, 2015 and 2019 and from July 2019 until today? I'm sorry, Mr. President, I should rather have interrupted because I'm not feeling well. I'm going to continue some other time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u23	Please escort my colleague to the medical office. It's better this way than the doctor comes here. Time's zero. He will speak from the beginning when my colleague comes. In the meantime, I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Katrin, and then immediately to Mr Constantine Maraveya from New Democracy. Mr. Katrinis has the floor. I would ask the Parliamentary Representatives to keep track of the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u24	I wish Mr Alexiadis, in the first place. Ladies and gentlemen, the government on the major theme of pandemic, which also employs Greek public opinion, has failed and failed both to manage and treat vaccination itself, but unfortunately also to try to strengthen the universally agreed national health system. And I say this because Mr Skylakakis is not here now, but ten days ago he visited Elias on the occasion of the 28th October parade. I don't know if he was informed that, in the midst of a pandemic, in the midst of the fourth pandemic, the intensive care unit of the General Tower Hospital is closed. Who would have said that and who would have believed it in other times. And the whole political, self-government system, the citizens of Elijah must rise to disagree, protest to discuss the obvious. What's that? That they cannot close an intensive treatment unit in the middle of a pandemic wave. This is therefore a symptom only of the incompetence and inadequacy of the government in managing a very difficult situation, which, unfortunately, is getting worse as the weather goes. Is that what we call it? The figures are: four hundred twenty-one imports are the average last week with a balance of imports - sixteen - because of COVID being a little over nine hundred. We also have an intubated increase. It is a matter of a few days, unfortunately, to reach the six hundred-year limit at the same time as no one can say that it is a lie that a large proportion of our intertwined citizens are out of intensive care units, and that is because 90% has been covered so far. At the same time that no one can say that it is a lie that too many public hospitals are understaffed, I do not want to talk about the number of our fellow citizens who have come up because of the pandemic in the first fortnight of November, and unfortunately it is the same as the one who was all last month. So all these elements, which are extremely worrying, which experts have been talking about for over a month and a half and have warned about the rapid development of the pandemic, but also the need to take concrete measures, unfortunately it seems that this grim situation does not move the most competent, the government actors. The government is firmly in the same tactic and continues to manage only a situation which, unfortunately, is becoming more and more difficult. Today, in fact, the Prime Minister will send an order to the Greek citizens, confirming that the government continues the communication management of a pandemic that threatens the entire country. How many proclamations has the Greek Prime Minister made so far, does anyone remember in this Chamber? Do you remember which of Mr Mitsotakis' findings and assurances have been confirmed to date? The Prime Minister and the members of the government are on the one hand responsible for the relaxing implementation of the measures, but they do not take responsibility for them because they have declared the end of the pandemic and this was not clear and clear and they were raped to do so. For vaccinations, the campaign of persuasive people instead of being carried out by specialist scientists, unfortunately, has been carried out by politicians and ministers with low credibility, who cannot argue that arguments such as 'do not save and be vaccinated' are responding to a strategy of correct reason. The Government has worked on the Committee of Scientists. Instead of recommending the committee's measures, seeing the health data, the government recommends to the committee whether it accepts its own proposals and, indeed, ministers who are completely unresponsible to announce the application of the health measures because they have an opinion on everything. Here and now, therefore, the National Health System needs to be strengthened, such as working hours in services, so that there is no co-existence, measures such as tightening up public transport, but also compulsoryity in professional groups that are in contact with too many citizens. In particular, ladies and gentlemen, it is necessary for the ministers to take a step back, finally, and for scientists to come forward. So what society needs, because society and the world are listening to scientists, finally, let the government do it and not do exactly the opposite. Of course, the government - on pandemic issues certainly does not do well - claims to date that everything is done for the sake of the economy. Not to close the economy, the economy that is the great asset of Mitsotakis Government, which is doing everything well, which is constantly gaining credit from the rating houses, from the markets in the investment piece. I will not say that the withdrawal of "MOHEGAN" from the casino in Greek. I will not say about today's publication which the Court of Auditors records some standing, but uncorrected weaknesses, such as non-recording of real estate, delaying the receipts from the public investment programme or even the fact that funds have been used from the regular reserve for expenditure which is not justified. But I am taking this opportunity, because the Deputy Minister has also spoken to the committee today, and today, about confidence in markets and institutions, leading to low interest rates and the possibility of borrowing. Since, therefore, the Minister and the Government are constantly talking about low interest rates, I would like to submit to the minutes the report of the Governor of the Bank of Greece, which says that only after the interventions of the European Central Bank, the yields of the Greek bonds were followed by a downward trend, thus reducing the yield curve. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And on October 29th, a few days ago, when Mrs Lagard announced the end of the bond exchange programme, the strong, strong and reliable Greek economy in a few minutes showed the first signs of weakness. The yield of the ten-year bond from 0.52% was launched at 1.3%, while the spreads also went over 130 base points, while as long as the programme was covered and this security was below 100 base points. The Minister spoke of confidence in markets and institutions, and I wonder, Minister: why does EUROSTAT ask to sign up to 23 billion of the guarantees from HERAKLE's securitisations on public debt? Why does EUROSTAT request that the guarantees be entered in the public debt? Why did you, while saying that you had the discussions with the Competition Committee and SSM, did you not have the discussions that were required with EUROSTAT, which does not rightly trust the New Democracy Government? Since Mr Skylakakis spoke about very clearly budgetaryly, he has brought us back many years, when with a New Democracy government, they were trying to deceive EUROSTAT at the expense of the country and we are still paying for it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The deficit seems to exceed 10%. The ratio of debt to GDP will exceed 200%. Minister, there is one question: will you give what Mr Mitsotakis promised at the Thessaloniki International Exhibition? Will you give the growth dividend for which you go and celebrate that you will exceed 7% or let the low-pensioners hear it and then leave them out? So a million three hundred thousand low-pensioners won't get anything. And if they don't get this year, which we have the escape clause, which we have growth rates of more than 7%, when will they, ladies and gentlemen? In 2022, when does the adjustment need to be made for more than 10 units?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u25	In conclusion, Mr Colleague, you have reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u26	I also take my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u27	Secondary accounts are not provided for in the Rules of Procedure. I'm not talking to you, I'm talking to everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u28	I want a tolerance, as you have shown the Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u29	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u30	I'll be done. The public finances, therefore, are not in good condition, and that is why you say: 'We cannot provide support measures for the economy and the market, we cannot take measures to alleviate the obligations of accumulated, pandemic debts, repayable advance, bank liabilities, income tax, HISBIA, traffic charges, current obligations'. All this must be paid for in the next four months, and you too, while we do not have this possibility, ladies and gentlemen of the government, because you are in a hurry to repay loans of 7.2 billion in the International Monetary Fund and the European Union, when twenty days ago - and I put it in the Minutes - the Minister said that it would be within 2022. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Michael Katrinis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] My last sentence, Mr President, and thank you. As far as the confidence of markets and institutions in the government is concerned, the government must respond to why the first instalment of the Recovery Fund of 1,718 billion, which was to be disbursed in 2021, and if the country has the luxury to wait for these resources and their delay, when we all agree that it is the last hope for the recovery and reconstruction of the country. So all this, and more, which unfortunately time unfortunately does not allow me to develop, prove that not only have you gained the confidence of markets and institutions at the economic level, but, unfortunately, you are losing every day citizens' confidence in what you are doing or rather not doing on the issue of the economy, but, above all, the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I was reading an article in the editors' Newspaper the day before yesterday, which concerns not only the subject of today's debate, but the attitude of the Officer's Opposition. Title of the article was: "Why doesn't SYRIZA recover even a little?" The problem raised by the "Privats' Newspaper" is that against the very big demands of the current state of the SYRIZA it dominates substantial discourse. I think that there is no more dramatic example than the pandemic crisis, which highlights the essential non-existence of the Anti-Population Officer. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Instead of constructive proposals in the public debate, we are constantly listening to the SYRIZA alone and we are hearing, for example, about compulsory health vaccination, without any control of the debtors. We were constantly hearing about the need to buy a combination of monoclonal antibodies of a particular pharmaceutical industry, which the company itself eventually withdrew from the control of Coreper. We continue to hear even today about alleged crimes against COVID patients who are hospitalized in public hospitals, for which SYRIZA asked the day before yesterday to present a timely question. Instead of submitting a proposal to improve the situation, however, it returns to the following destructive allegations: It is also known that the defects in CIVID clinicals, which are largely covered, especially in their on-call, by non-experienced infections and unqualified in the management of CIVID -19 medical and nursing staff, with obvious negative effects on the bad outcome of a significant number of cases, particularly in the province’s hospitals. In other words, once again SYRIZA turns against the health of the ESS, challenging their scientific adequacy and fitness to care for patients with COVID. So there, they stop applause to SYRIZA for the people on the front line and start the charges and depreciation of the ESS. Ladies and gentlemen, the analysis of the 'Presidency Newspaper' which says 'Why is SYRIZA not convinced?' It's obviously right, but it's not complete. That is why he ignores a key element of his policy, which is irrationalism. I reread from Mr Tsipras's previous question this incredible claim: 'Vaccine is not a return passport to normality for anyone'. In other words, SYRIZA tells the citizens what the former Deputy Minister of Health has said so long: "Do not focus on vaccination, it will not solve anyone's problem". So don't listen to the epidemiologists, don't listen to the contagious saying the opposite. This is the deposit of irrationalism, with which we are confronted in many discussions with SYRIZA. For example, ELSTAT announced yesterday that unemployment was reduced in September to 13%, as opposed to 16.5 in September 2020. What did SYRIZA have to comment on this, undoubtedly, positive development? I would point out that in September the labour market was affected by the application of specific operational rules to businesses and measures to protect public health throughout the country. Mr Stakoras also made a public commitment yesterday that the government will support all those affected by the energy crisis, giving further money for the heating allowance, beyond the EUR 500 million already approved, to cover increases in electricity, oil and gas. Yet again, unspeakable on behalf of SYRIZA. The European Commission came a few days ago, and not the Ministry of Finance, and it thought that in the end growth for 2021 would exceed 7%. That is why the Prime Minister himself paid a second minimum wage increase, in addition to what has already been announced for workers in 2022, a new dividend of growth to be granted to the world of work, which has made a decisive contribution to the development of the national economy. So what does SYRIZA have to say about all this? It seems that, in fact, he has nothing to comment on. Something similar also happens with the debates on the Balance sheet and Report for 2019. After seven years of planning by the Government of New Democracy, a purely technical and also very important programme for recording the true economic situation of the Greek public is under way. After a period of five years of SYRIZA’s inactivity, the Enterprise Resource Planning begins shortly, which will ultimately reflect the public’s full assets position in real time, i.e. with securities, stocks in material, cash and so on. This is a project of enormous importance, not only for the full accounting of state activities but above all for the proper management of all public financial resources to the benefit of both the state and the citizens. Mr President, I would like to stand - and have a minute of your tolerance - with regard to the financial results of 2019, which I have set again and concerns the burdens that the New Democracy Government has inherited from the missing SYRIZA and the area of social security. The problem was clearly described by Mr Syrizas in the committee responsible, but SYRIZA once again did not remember. I would therefore remind you of the famous case of LEPETE, the subsidiary insurance of the staff of the National Bank, a special account that had nothing to do with the State, nor, of course, the EIF, i.e. the social security institution prior to e-ECA. And yet, with a last-minute decision, a huge amount that LEPETE had to have spent on the financial result, reducing the state surplus in 2019 exceptionally and without anyone having predicted it. This is an election note signed by the then State Secretary, Mr Petropoulos, on which EUROSTAT then came to force us to make a financial correction for 2019 by EUR 545 million. We have lost this money from SYRIZA's pre-election in the public social security system. That is why we still hear absolutely nothing from the Civic Opposition. I conclude, Mr President, by reminding you of another bad legacy that SYRIZA left us, but the government of Mr Mitsotakis has in many cases been reversed. I am talking about overtaxing everything, which SYRIZA is proud of today. Only in 2019 and for Mr. Tsakalotou's famous pillow, SYRIZA was bleeding 11.5 billion euros from the real economy. Without taking into account the other tax raids, which have been indiscriminately spent on subsidised policies, SYRIZA filled the pillow with EUR 11.5 billion of additional overtaxation. Fortunately, however, for taxpayers, those days have already passed and the presence of the government is working to bring growth rather than new taxes, gaining the confidence of both international markets and Greek investors, but above all of Greek society. Because they are not taxes, but they are the people who bring economic growth and create a hopeful future for our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u33	Thank you too, Mr Maraveya. As long as I preside, first time you ask me for time and, of course, I'd give him to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u34	I did not expect time to be reduced, Mr President, in five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u35	Don't worry at all. Once you asked for us. Good afternoon, too. Happy birthday to Plato. I shall give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Vrutsi. To prepare Mr. Huntas from the Greek Solution. You have the floor for six minutes, Mr. Brutsi. Let me also congratulate you on the son who won the silver medal in Cyprus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing - and it is interesting - the ratification of the State Budget for the financial year 2019 and the ratification of the balance sheet and other financial statements of the central government reference period 1-1-2019-31-12-2019. It may seem to be something completely typical. In practice, however, I characterise this debate as a major positive institutional step, as I will explain. It is a positive institutional step, because today's debate and the elements described and in the hands of all the Members - on this record - are also being discussed, as is the result of Law 4272/2014 and Dr.54/2018. What does that mean? It means that for the first time, on the basis of the obligations of the state and the law and the presidential decree, we are coming to Parliament - with a delay of many years, but today it is really a institutionally positive step - and we are fully documenting the economic elements of our country. That is why I called it a positive institutional step. The second thing I have to say is that I think it is a positive political step. A positive political step, because the Qualified Opposition, in other words SYRIZA, is voting on the financial statements. And it is good, because I think that SYRIZA does not vote and does not give a vote because half the year since 2019 had the financial management. By interpreting well-meaningly, I believe that what other parties should do and do not do so is to establish that the state's balance sheet and balance sheet from now on should be voted on, because it is not a matter of political controversy. Can the parties be placed differently on policies, on economic development, in this matter, in balance sheet and balance sheet? Sure. However, being placed with a negative vote on economic data, which is the record of the officials of the Ministry of Finance, the General Accounting Office of the State, is from joke to unacceptable. In other words, it is like rejecting the economic elements, which we are voting on today, that we do not accept. I therefore hope and believe, after this first institutional step which is taking place today in the Greek Parliament, by voting in favour of Officerial Vice-President, until the end of the meeting, that the other parties will adjust their vote, revise it and vote in favour. I hope that, in future, all parties in the report of the year of reference will always vote positive. Because there is no political difference in today's debate. It is or does not accept or accept the elements of the Treasury. On the issues raised by Mrs Papanatziou, the rapporteur of SYRIZA and the other parties, I have a few points to make, which I too, following on from what Mr Skeylakakis said, consider to be important for our debate, the prospect of the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, one question arises: is the national economy going well or going bad? Because that was the major, Mr Chakaloto, which was primarily developed here from the Step of Parliament. When all international houses, when Europe itself, when the markets come and reward through their announcements the course of the national economy, when the Bank of Greece does so, when the figures themselves show it, can we question the positive course of our national economy? Growth in 2021 will exceed 7.1%. Is that a small growth indicator? And as forecasts say in 2022, growth will exceed 5%. And as the Bank of Greece's macro-financial staff says, in the next decade, growth will run at 3%. Is it or is it not a positive achievement for our national economy? Of course it is. Of course, an issue arises. The issue of public debt, 206,3% in 2020. Was it, however, the evacuation of public debt a fact that was created by a series of wrong policies, or was it something extraordinary? It was an emergency. He gave EUR 42 billion in 2020 and 2021 from the Greek state's public funds to support businesses and jobs. Should we or shouldn't we do that? Here's the question. Of course I should. 12.5% of GDP in 2020 and 9.3% of GDP in 2021 were taken consciously. It was our business and jobs support policy. That's the reality. Will the debt be reduced? Indeed, it is a matter. The answer is that it has already decreased by 6.1% in the first half of 2021, with a view to falling to 190% at the end of 2021-6.1 points in the first half - and with a view to decreasing continuously. Does the markets show credibility to the Greek economy? Critical indicator. Of course they do. When we borrowed more than three units and today we borrow less than 1.3%, I think there is a great difference in the credibility of the Greek economy from the international environment. I come to another matter. Mrs Papanatsiou raised the social issue, which was the portfolio that I managed in the past. Mrs Papanatsiou, from this Stepma, I listened primarily to SYRIZA as a criticism of the period when it was the responsibility of governance to talk about reducing unemployment. I always, sincerely trying to be on this issue, said that it was indeed SYRIZA that unemployment was reduced, but it was the result of long-standing dynamic reforms, but also of policies that took place and started from 2012 to 2013. And I'm explaining. Yesterday, ELSTAT with its announcement showed the lowest unemployment rate from August 2010 to today. We have a record of reducing unemployment 11 years of age to 13%. We're not satisfied. The aim is to reach Europe's average. But I'm over that. Is the result random? Is that a fragment? Oh, no. The de-escalation of unemployment began in 2013. It continued in 2014 and all years and reached this 13%, the shortest in eleven years. It is, firstly, the result of bold, brave reforms in the economy. It is the result of the reduction in insurance contributions by 10 percentage points. We had 6 units between 2012 and 2014 and 3.9 units between 2020-2021, i.e. a reduction in labour taxation, which attracts work and makes it more attractive. It is also the result - let me - of the heavy fine of EUR 10 500, the most heavy fine in the country's Labour Law for undeclared work. I would remind you that in the first application of the fine, seventy thousand new jobs appeared in September 2013, which were not new jobs. It was the passage from the informal economy to the official because of the fine. SYRIZA said he'd abolish it, but he kept it good. This fine exists today and it is the fear of any businessman who wants to have undeclared workers. I would remind you that undeclared work was at 42.3% in February 2013 and today it is less than 3% because of the fine. It is the 'ERGANI', which is the electronic shield for the protection of workers and is based on the design of all its elements. That's exactly where it's based. It's an electronic shield for the workers. It's the new insurance law, Mr.4670/2020, Mrs. Papanatsiou, to which you also referred. Why? Because this law, in contrast to your own period, has two very important elements: first, for the world of agricultural, farmers, and the scientific world and the free trade, it has abolished the insurance tax, which you have been looking for today and which was one of your own wrong policies and you have paid it politically, and has for the first time put the insurance rule of our country free. It is free to choose each one of the insurance contributions he wants to pay with a change every year. That was a great positive change in insurance. Secondly, over thirty years of work you will have an increased pension. What does that mean? Just because I see today in journalism, in newspapers the need to see what is being done today, insurer law, Mr Tsakaloto, with thirty years and over the future, mainly. Because those who are currently working have an incentive to declare their work, so that there are insurance contributions, that there is more than thirty years of registration, to have an increased pension, that is to say, to cultivate insurance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u38	Finally, an additional element was how the minimum wage was calculated. Law 4172/2013 abandoned a past in which the minimum wage was about within and on it in the calculation and laid rules. With pleasure, despite the diversification of SYRIZA, SYRIZA kept the law in question and the increase in minimum wages must not be arbitrary either at once or in political purposes, but should be made on the basis of matching, the possibility of our economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u40	I'm closed, Mr. President. These are the budgetary rules, which have made a major contribution to the declining of unemployment, which also continues in the positive steps taken in our national economy as a whole. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much. Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas. To prepare Mr. Pascalides, then Mr. Tsakalotos, Mr. Ljupis and Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. I live in a dream, don't wake me, Mr. Brutsi. How nice of you to describe everything! What a beautiful country we live in! It's all broken up. It's all settled. Bravo! I do not know exactly what you are describing and what you have in mind, but I really think that here - and particularly outside the world, in citizens and in society - the logic of the world is in a hurry with what he hears. Your account is amazing, really. Everything's perfect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u43	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u44	I don't mind, Mr. President. Whenever a bill head is Mr. Skylakakis, you know, Mr. President, the debate is of increased interest, because he, despite our disagreements with politics and ideology, is a noble man and reasonable and speaks truths. For the oral Dog we have heard - and I will ask some questions - the self-evident, what they are trying to change us, to baptize our fish, that Greece is still in a memorial. Because they're struggling to tell us we're out of the memoirs. This is where our reasoning is rushing. They were troika, they became institutions then - we baptized them - and now we have new baptism and we call it enhanced supervision. But we're talking about the exact same thing. Does any other country have increased supervision in the European Union? So what do they do, the memorials, the troika, the institutions, the supervisors, as you want to tell them? Do they just check or give orders? Do they rule or do we? Can we move? "Kich" can we do or should we ask to give us their permission? It's honest, Mr. Skulakakis. I'm going to ask more questions. The EUR 42.7 billion that you put as a government - you say - on the market over a year and a half is credit or is it not? It's borrowed. Will the Greek people pay them or will they not pay them? He'll pay for it. You're lending and subtracting. You charge our children and you're glad. That's unprecedented. Mr. Skylakakis also admitted that this money will be called back to give it back. And you know, what you're doing is very unreasonable. Because it's like we have a store. Make the picture. We have a store. The store is being borrowed EUR 42.7 billion to sell its merchandise, in other words to give its funds about EUR 12 billion. So much I expect the government to collect the $42.7 billion it has borrowed. It is expected to increase the country's GDP by about 12 billion. It's completely insane. I borrow 43 billion to collect about 12 billion. Here we are talking about absurdity. Mr. Skolakis spoke of social inequality. Now, is it or is it not social inequality, Minister, to have such high taxes, the highest in the European Union, for Greek citizens? Is it or is it not social inequality, is it the citizens of that country paying the most expensive electricity? Is it or is it not social inequality to pay the most expensive fuel? Is it or isn't it social inequality, have the lowest wages? Is it or is it not social inequality, the Greek taxpayer - for years, not just because of COVID - to treat a dissolved national health system with all the redundancies you have made over the last years? I'm asking you questions. Are you going to answer? Leave the spectacular descriptions you make here, that we're going great. Does Greece have the most expensive fuel in Europe, yes or no? Does Greece have the most expensive oil and natural gas, yes or no? Today, November 18, we had a record at the wholesale price of electricity! Do you understand? Wholesale price record on electricity! The basic consumption goods of everyday life, for the Greek family to live, have exceeded 20%. Do you understand? And what's your answer? Increase in wages - as if we are not ashamed -2%, half a day! Half a day! Is that what you describe with pride and satisfaction in the world? That's what you're describing, instead of telling them all that I'm telling you, where is it true? The truth is also this: Are citizens currently in the first home auctions, yes or no? There is or does not exist - we say there is no one! - first home protection? Is there or is there an acceleration of auctions? Is he coming or isn't he coming in for a tsunami in the next 15 months? Fifty to a hundred auctions are scheduled for each day. I'll be back in a day. Do you understand that? Do you see them? You're dealing with them. What do you say to the world? I hear you talking. Now we hear you talking and think we live elsewhere. There is a proposal to reduce VAT on first-hand goods and excise duty on fuel. I have this product, Mr Besyropoulou, which makes 10 euros and the state collects 1 euros taxes. So if it makes 10 euros, it collects 1 euros of the state's taxes. Now this product with the increases has been 15 euros. If you leave it as it is, the state will collect 1,5 euros taxes. What do we say? Reduce taxes, drop the price of the product and collect the state as much as it would receive at the normal price. Again 1 euro to collect the state. So I reduce taxes, I collect what I would receive and reduce the price of the product for the world. So what? Reduction of VAT, reduction of excise duty on fuels, without losing the state. That's our proposal, and it's done. It is outrageous to say that a thousand of our compatriots, a thousand brilliant minds from the six hundred fifty thousand Greeks who left with the Brain Drain abroad! Thousands are back, and you're on your way! I mean, for god's sake. Don't say it at all! What can you say? That of the six hundred fifty thousand to seven hundred thousand Greeks, the thousand returned? It's really embarrassing! Questions: do we have a new locker or do we not have one? Do you live in the world outside? Get out and see what's going on in the world outside! The business world and the focus, the retail trade are on the rails, yes or no? There are new armies of unemployed, yes or no? Don't play with numbers! Look at the real life, the real society out there. Your foolish choices in the management of the pandemic led these people of the retailer and focus on despair, yes or no? Are you actually using these people as a boxing bag, as a pressure lever, to convince those who have not taken the vaccine? Why are you using these people? That's what you're doing! That is the situation out there. Mr Colleague, you are also a doctor, if I listened to you, or if people listened to you talking about COVID and vaccines, we would actually have much more chance of getting them vaccinated, despite the ones you had to convince them: Pagoni and Vassilikopoulou, who have the opposite results! Wrong communication you put these people in! Is it wrong or isn't it the order of doctors? To lose the world, to sink the National Health System and you to insist punishing to keep thousands of sanitary on parole, for a whim and a revenge? It's wrong! Norway runs three tests a week and has them in battle. Because in this battle no one is left behind! Wrong! Is it wrong or isn't it that you don't know yet how many IDs you have? Thousands says Plearis, a thousand three hundred says Vorides. We don't know yet, we're looking. Is it true or isn't it that there are complaints from doctors that ICUs can't be staffed? Is it true or is it not true that the prosecutor intervened after Mr Vassilikopoulou's statements that the IMIs had not been carried out properly, thus increasing mortality? These are the truths and you have to tell the world and say we have a problem and we're going to solve it. Don't look good. Don't describe a parallel universe. You haven't taken a white check. You won't be life-threatening rulers of this country. And you do everything you can to get out as fast as you can. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mr.Ioannis Paschalides is called to Stepma from New Democracy and then is Mr. Tsakalotos from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here you go, Mr. Paschalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the ratification of the State Accounting of 2019, the Balance Sheet and other financial statements of the central administration with a reference period in 2019, with the legislative definition of both the State and the central government being understood in their narrow sense, namely the Presidency of the Republic, the Parliament, the Ministries and the decentralised administrations, but not the public legal entities, such as the Local Government Organisations. Like all accounts, this was drawn up on the basis of the principle of unity, the principle of universality, the principle of uniformity, that of annuality, and the principle of specificity of appropriations. But while the budget refers to the future, that is to say, it is hypothetical or alleged, the balance sheet refers to the past, that is, it is real. With regard to the financial year 2019 in particular, the conclusions to be drawn are as follows: First, the State’s total costs amounted to approximately 55,27 billion. Secondly, that the costs borne mainly by tax revenues of EUR 46.5 billion, from withdrawals from the European Union of EUR 2.4 billion, and from the exploitation or disposal of the State's movable and immovable property of EUR 1,82 billion. Thirdly, that EUR 126 million was needed to cover the deficit from the above total state expenditure. As regards the net revenue received in 2019, it amounted to 55,11 billion compared with 53 billion, plus EUR 1,72 billion in relation to the year 2018. More specifically, the tax revenues made amounted to EUR 46,54 billion compared to the EUR 46,42 billion that had been paid, while the revenue from the exploitation or disposal of the State's movable or immovable property that had been budgeted amounted to EUR 1,94 billion, ultimately amounted to 1,82 billion. It should be noted that the net revenue received of EUR 55.11 billion exceeded the budget target of EUR 2.08 billion, which provided for revenues of 53.02 billion, i.e. 4%. This overrun is mainly due to increased budgetary revenues from sales of goods and services, above EUR 1,2 billion, with an example of exceeding revenues from the extension of the Athens International Airport concession, other current revenues exceeding EUR 933,19 million and from taxes exceeding EUR 117,39 million and exceeding EUR 358,10 million in relation to the budget and transfers revenues. A general conclusion from the assessment of the figures given is that everything on a cash basis, the budget forecasts for tax revenue for 2019, appear to be accurate overall. The fact that it was overall accurate and, for the previous year, it is encouraging the overall success of the budget forecasts made by the executive, while a satisfactory development in terms of deficit was also observed in 2019 in relation to the original forecast. In addition, what has been observed once again is the deviation of the actually pending balance of revenue from that shown in the statement, which is due to the non-recording of unrealised claims established by the customs offices of the country to the remunerated balance of the statement. These claims, according to the financial statements, amounted to EUR 31-12-2019 to EUR 5,91 billion. As regards the balance sheet now, i.e. the financial position of the central administration, it is worth noting that the financial statements for the financial year 2019 are the first to be drawn up in the context of the accounting reform in the public sector and established by Law 4270/2014 and subsequently by Law 54/2018, with which Greece is committed to adopting international accounting standards in the public sector. The new accounting framework of general governance aims to improve the financial information provided by the State to taxpayers, investors, lenders, citizens. Due to the new way of measuring and recognising the requirements, a write-down of EUR 101,40 billion is observed. This does not mean, however, that the requirements have been deleted, but the right thing to do was to measure them in such a way that they were actually paid back in order to reflect the financial position and performance of the central administration. Of course, this does not affect the central government's claims against third parties. To conclude, after warmly congratulating the service providers of the State General Accountancy for this complex work, as well as all the financial staff for their difficult work, I would like to refer to the European Commission's very pleasant autumn forecasts for this year and 5.2% for 2022. This will be a catalyst in the markets. At the same time, it proves that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is on a very right path, along the way to progress and recovery. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u47	Thank you very much. We have a change in consultation between two colleagues and so I will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis. Then let Mr. Lippi get ready. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President, for giving me the floor. Thank you very much for giving me his turn. The small parties, unfortunately, have the curse to be obligated on the bigger ones, because otherwise we would never speak. The budget submitted in 2019 by the SYRIZA government - and it is interesting, of course, that you, New Democracy, voted against it at the time - was a budget which was then supposed to be a budget that showed recovery, which was showing that the country has come out of the narrow and downward course, from this spiral which is increasingly regressive, according to the then rulers, that is to say, according to SYRIZA. The reality, in our opinion, at Mera25, Mr President, is quite different and we say this in the name of knowledge, as we believe, as my dearest colleague and special speaker of Mera25 said in today's debate here in plenary, had already lost, Mr Tsakalotos, as you know best from me, 66 billion in the five-year period 2008-2013 from our Gross National Product. The recovery that Mr Samaras claimed first warmly before Mr. Tsipras and then Mr. Tsipras succeeded in delivering in the next six years, as Mr. Logiadis said, only 10 of these 66 billion to our Gross National Product. This means, with simply Greek - everyone understands it and I think you all agree - that it was unimportant, powerless and irritatingly slow to regain. But it would be a possibility, if in the fourth quarter of 2019, we had no recession again. You know, the evidence says so. They lacked the government's anticipated revenue and it was clear that the country was redirecting into a recession. So we have to note that this is actually a year that is too indicative of what it means to have turned into a Memorandum Party, whether you are called a New Democracy, a PASOK or a KINAL or a SYRIZA. He said the dear Minister, Mr. Skylakakis, who was here just now lacking to answer something about it, that he finds nothing contradictory - I read what I wrote, as I was down - in voting for the half balance sheet by SYRIZA in 2019 and SYRIZA on the other hand, the rest of the balance sheet - i.e., after the 7th of July - that the New Democracy did. And here I answer Mr. Squirrel with love and a little sense of humor: neither are we, Mr. Squirrel, nor we, Mr. Mitsotakis, nor we, Mr. Tsipras! We really can't find anything contradictory. On the contrary, do you know what we're finding? We find a fact which, in our opinion, is politically exquisite, extremely revealing, that in voting and implementing the inhumans for the Greek people, you are - apologizing - partners. You're partners and partners. And you are partners and collaborators and it looks embodied in the 2019 balance sheet, with which the New Democracy continues to carry out the orders of the lenders from where you left them. We also had an amazing confession that you all heard, that is to say, that our state does not know what it owns. It looks a little pranky, you know, as it reminds us of the famous saying, the advertising slogan that urges us all to gamble. I do not remember, I think it is a national lottery, so I can say it and from here, it says 'you will not know what you have'. That's what it's called there as something wonderful. If you can't count on your fortune, he'll say you're outrageously rich. But here, let's get serious. A state of the Balkans, even bananas, as they have done five memos - and then sixth, seventh and eighth - a state of this kind cannot know what it has and what does it have? I mean, he doesn't know his silvers! Then how do you sell what we have and we don't have, since you don't even know what we've got? Are you selling what you don't know we have? In any case, I have followed him, and I will reply a word to him for word on a few things I have noted. Today he said the most amazing of all today and, indeed, I invite you to think about it, to see the deadlock of the ruling people, without ruling. Brussels is ruling. They're calling and they're called "I'll cut your legs" and they obey. They are exemplary prisoners, exemplary prisoners. Now look at the dead end being created. He said, therefore, that we are entering increased supervision, unfortunately, because of COVID and not increased supervision. Every man who hasn't been in elementary school but speaks Greek in elementary terms - speaks them in imitation as children get to know them before they go to school - understands that reinforcement and increase is the same thing. It's amazing. Couldn't you find a word that isn't entirely synonymous? It's not Yannis, it's Yannakis. We'll have no more reinforcement, we'll have increased surveillance. It is the political deadlock to which you have come because you are memorialists, who have no dividing line, because you do not pursue any policy. You pursue a policy that is dictated to you, you are forced and ordered to exercise it. You practice this policy and so you can't even find words to describe to your audience, to your audience, which are not synonyms. Mr President, there are no words. They're forced to replace the enhanced one with the increased one. I tell you with love as I am your colleague. People laugh, dear fellow, out there. Manolius changed and put on his clothes otherwise, people say. Not Yannis, the world says. Mr. Skeylakakis told us - who just discovered the powder - that he begs businessmen in the focus to be nostalgic with the price lists. How can they be nourished, Mr President? How can they be nourished, ladies and gentlemen, with lists after a year and a half of a year of lockdown, with returnable advances - I repeat and will always repeat - I will not be tired - of the two, of the four thousand, which you are now asking them back, in other older cases whole, entirely, in other half, and broke up in their heads and all of their debts, which you have accumulated with the famous 'uploads' that we have been telling you two years now that they are stepping up the problem, because when they come to the other 100,000, it is worse than coming to him to pay ten thousand. How, then, can these people, with such ferocious inflation, be nostalgic? It's challenging too. So, they're not nuns? What is it? Is there anything vibrant, guys? Are there any defenseless young people? No defenseless young people. The coffee and milk they buy went up 50%, so they cannot be nourished, Mr. Psilakakis. To be noble you have to survive first. They won't survive if they don't upload the prices and so the prices will reach us. Who are we? Your victims, all of the Greek people, who have lost their purchasing capacity by 50%, have they? With five memorials from three different parties, two big and one former big party, PASOK now KINAL. I should like to close, Mr President, in order not to get far, since I have also taken the place of my dear Mr Tsakalotou, saying this: everything that has been said here today, allegedly about households, packages, is other words to be loved, ladies and gentlemen, and I will prove it immediately with two very simple elements. In fact 500 trillions will be owed to Greece today if Brussels says 'no problem', the markets will lend us at zero interest rates. In fact, on the day the markets decided to lift their trust in the Greek economy, nothing has changed in the last ten years in the Greek economy. It was the same economy that enjoyed extreme confidence from the markets, until Mr.Siomple ordered the markets not to lend us and to have a heart attack in order to pretend that they saved Greece, which did not need any salvation, and that the money came from behind -325 billion dollars. is the money that has come all these years - not to go to the funds and go to Deutsche Bank at all and to the two biggest French banks. Or he understood that it was forbidden by the Statute of the European Central Bank to rescue banks, he wanted to rescue banks and said "A, we can pretend that we are saving countries". We have a bad tick in the neck and we are sucked from our hearts to rescue two German and two French banks. And if you let them, everyone together, they'll keep doing it by 2100. Do you know what proof is that I'm telling the truth? That on the day the financial institutions throughout the earth came to trust in the Greek economy, the ratio of GDP to the national debt of France and Italy was worse than the ratio of Greece. However, no market has calmed its confidence in these countries, because no market has taken from the crocodiles in Brussels the idea of plunging a country into desperation and for twelve years a people of ten million, just to save four bankrupt since 2008, as they were exposed to toxic US loans for first residence. Thank you very much, Mr Tsakalotos and you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u49	Take it easy. Mr Athanasios Ljupis from New Democracy is called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is of special value to analyse 2019 financial data through a prism of almost two years that have intervened and with the time available and gives us another more global perspective on things. 2019 was a special year. By July the SYRIZA government was in power and from July to the end of the year the first period of governance of the New Democracy. Although New Democracy has received an economy stagnant and shrinking, even in these six months of the second half of 2019 the difference in economic policy begins to be recorded. The 2019 budget is the last to reflect the consequences of overtaxation, which was used as a key lever for state revenues based on SYRIZA’s choices. Total state costs amounted to about EUR 55 billion and were mainly covered by taxation, which brought EUR 46.5 billion. Overall, the policy implemented by the previous government failed, as evidenced by the very low rate of collection. Only 30% of the latest revenue for 2019 was ultimately collected as against 41% in 2015. So the remnant was giganted and reached 105 billion. This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. The criticism of the New Democracy is unequivocally and unjustly managed by the Civic Opposition. One of the first initiatives of the Government in the first budget of 2019, which was already voted on and gave little flexibility, was the great increase in social benefits for 2019. While 246 million were budgeted, 697 million were allocated. This was the primary concern of the New Democracy Government at its beginning, support for the weak after a long period of pressure suffered by medium and vulnerable households. One of the key uncertainties for the state's balance sheet to be more accurate is the illusion of government assets. The government has already launched a detailed account of the total property for the first time. Immediately we are going to create a register of the public's standings, but also to acquire full knowledge of all the mobile things and consumables that belong to the Greek State. Obviously we cannot have the best use of public property if we do not know who it is first. In relation to the recovery of the credibility of the Greek economy, in which the Civic Response attempts to convince that it succeeded, the truth is generally different. Confidence in Greece was restored thanks to the sacrifices of the Greek people and thanks to the emergence of a credible political leadership that does not eat and contradict and is not based on fireworks. Thanks to these factors, the confidence of the markets towards the Greek economy, which is reflected in all the economic indicators, has again been built. I began my speech by referring to the value that we have to see things from a time span. Indeed, the time that took place from 2019 until now gives us a clear picture of the great change that has taken place in the economy. In more than two years, many reductions in taxes have been made and stimulants have been given to the economy without adding any extra burden to citizens. The numbers aren't lying. Firstly, a reduction in insurance contributions by four units, a reduction in HPAI by 22%, a reduction in the tax on professionals to 55% from 100% and for businesses to 80%, a reduction in the tax rate for natural persons to 9% from 22%. At the same time, EUR 42.7 billion is allocated for the period 2020-2022 for the support of the economy, such as the ‘PRODUCT’ programme, the ‘FYROM’ programme 1 and 2 for the grant of loans, repayable and non-payments, which in the end support the businesses of work, workers and households. And, of course, all this was implemented in the midst of the sanitary and subsequent economic crisis, which inevitably limited the dynamics and prospects of the Greek economy. After all these measures the difference in the real economy is great. ELSTAT records an increase of 7% of household income in the second half of 2021, a large increase in building activity of 36.8% in the first half of the year, while a decrease in unemployment of 3.5% in September 2021 compared with 2020 is recorded. Foreign direct investment in the first half of 2021 is increasing 34% compared to 2020 and 12.5% compared to 2019. Contrary to what happened until 2019, New Democracy's economic policy aimed at increasing revenue, but not through the elimination of citizens and especially the middle class, but through a stable economic policy that won international recognition and made our country an attractive investment destination. So that reality has now been formed is completely different for Greece. The European Commission announced a 7.1% growth for 2021 and 5.2% for 2022. The Greek economy has turned towards a period of prosperity and opportunities that mark a better future for Greek women and Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u51	It is called in Stepma as a parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I wanted your attention, because I prepared a table that I would give to Mr. Dollacakis, which I will then present in the Minutes. I'll give him to you, too, to give him to Mr. Dogacakis, and I'd like you to ask him that this chart put it under his bed every night when he wakes up in the morning, put it in his purse, do you understand how wrong he does to how many things he does? It's just a chart. He says that wages will increase not by the minimum wage, not by collective agreements, not by other interventions on the labour market, but by increasing productivity. You've heard him say it many times. This table shows in G20 countries two curves. You all see - I think you too, Minister - that the upper curve shows a continuous increase in productivity after 2000. The other curve shows an increase in wages. You see that it does not follow the increase in productivity in all the countries of the Western world. In other words, we have in the past twenty - thirty years - in America it started a little earlier - a structural change in all economies. In other words, if I had this painting for America’s economy, the United States 1870 to 1970, you would see that the two curves are almost the same. As productivity rises so much as wages rise. After the time of neoliberalism, we have a break in this relationship. In other words, productivity increases - not very impressively - but wages are not increased together. This is a very big change. Mr. Brutsi, you said about growth, and if we're happy or not happy. The point is that both 2000 and 2019 we had growth and wages did not increase. When Mr. Hatzidakis dismantled the warning about overworking yesterday, what exactly did he want to do? In other words, not only have you done the legislation on flexibility in the labour market, but now you are coming overworking, that is, the four - five hours before we get to the overtime. Is that what he wants to change that relationship? Is that what he wants to do? It also wants work to have a share in national income, or the continuation of this curve, or for flexibility or for collective agreements. So your whole model is based on a mistake. In other words, you believe that only if productivity rises will wages increase and that is no longer the case in the Western world. In my yesterday's article at the "ECONOMIC TIME" I have other paintings that disprove your entire account. For twenty-thirty years the maximum rate of income is falling in all countries. In all countries, as in us after you, the rate of profits falls. Is investment increased? Investments as a share of GDP, whether public or private, have been at high level over the past twenty-three years to reduce these tax rates? Because that's what you're telling us. Wages will increase with productivity, productivity will increase, investments will be made and investments will increase once the rates are reduced. Except this relationship doesn't go together. When the coefficients are reduced - Mr Skulakakis told us - and the income in the upper tiles and profits, we do not have an increase in investment. We have a youth leaving you for that very reason. He leaves you, because they have wages that work two - when they work - both wages together do not make a wage with dignity. How do you deal with this? Saying the same thing that all governments have been saying over the last thirty years, that by reducing taxation and compressing wages sometime in the end we will have a recovery. And here seems the big difference. In 2019, that is, in 2018, when we discussed the 2019 budget, it was - Mr Gregoriadis is not right in what he said - the first budget to reduce austerity since we entered the memorandum. We didn't stop. The level was austerity, it was tight for the world, but it decreased. This first change. The second change was, in contrast to what the previous speaker said, that it was the first budget to show the difference between the SYRIZA approach and the New Democracy approach, because we did not use all the available financial space for tax reductions. We also had this, we had cutbacks in HPAI, we had reductions in youth social security contributions, we had for the self-employed and farmers, but at the same time, we had for housing, for 'Help to Home', the social programme, not the Kenyanism that you and other governments support in the Western world, which is a Kenyan without a social state. You are intervening, you are spending money - in fact - like all countries but you are not building the social state, you are not creating a social state that can support and reduce the insecurity that citizens feel and that is seen in health. Other people have said about health. I went to Drama, as the good colleague here knows, and had a delegation from two health centres. The situation is a tragic situation. That is, they take people from health centers, they take them to Drama Hospital, so more people go to the hospital, because it cannot be served in the health center, for example in Neuroscope, which could well cover many diseases, it also has equipment for COVID, if it is not the serious case. Oh, no. We're compressing it and everyone's going to the hospital. Is this an approach to COVID? Is this how we deal with this disease really? And then you'll tell us that we've increased the position at the ICU. In fact, until March 2019, before the pandemic, did you have a place above ITH than we left you? No, you didn't. You have never been aware of the fact that you will support the health system, because you think health expenditure is a cost, not a future increase in public health and an increase in the safety of people who know that they will be facing such problems again in the future. In conclusion, Mr President, the great question of this time is the inequality of all kinds and income and wealth and access to social and cultural goods and regional inequalities. Again in Drama, it was shocking how many shops were closed, Mr. Comrade. I didn't think so. Of course, things are happening there too, and we need to build on the good things that are happening, but I do not feel that they are on your radar even the issue of inequalities, the inequalities that are seen in this table and the inequalities that will continue if these policies continue. Mr Katrin, because you have lost the beginning of my speech, I would also like you to look at this because it shows what happens when the centre-left and centre-right collide, what the social results are. Another government needs a left-wing, progressive, democratic government, which, in its development policy, is based on the inequalities, starts from the inequalities, so that it can support the country's income, demand and production structure. When we continue with the same policies, we will have the same results. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto, too. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague spoke just now about the financial area created in the years of SYRIZA's governance. At the same time he said there were also tax reductions. I do not remember a tax reduction in SYRIZA's governance. In four and a half years of SYRIZA governance, no tax has been reduced. They legislated under the pressure of the world after the European elections and with the new election campaign, the new defeat that was coming, they legislated on the eve of the 2019 elections, they reduced HNVY by 30%, but that was never implemented. For four and a half years they haven't done anything. All they did was surpass the tax rates of the supplementary tax and reduce the tax rate from EUR 300,000 to EUR 250,000, increase the rates of taxation of the solidarity levy. You have legislated, Mr Tsakalote, to reduce the tax rate on businesses from 29% to 28% on eve of the 2019 elections, which has never been implemented. The government that reduced taxes was the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy after too many years. For the first time Greek citizens took off with reduced HISPIA tax on the Government of New Democracy and with Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis. The Prime Minister of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and with a New Democracy Government saw the reduction of the rate of taxation in enterprises from 28% to 22%, the suspension of the special solidarity levy which - I repeat - was a temporary measure which expired on 31-12-2016. You have permanently simulated and more than tripled the rates of taxation. We have reduced the first step to employees, pensioners and individual businesses from 22% to 9%. We have reduced the VAT rate to too many species in focus, transport, non-alcoholic beverages, etc. from 24% to 13% where you drove it. So don't tell us about the financial area that you in your administration have reduced taxes. You used him a little differently. However, a reduction in taxes for the first time took place in the New Democracy Government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Chakatus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u56	It is not nice for the country to have a Minister suffering from a loss of recent memory. It's not right. Many of the speakers in the New Democracy have said that we must at least agree. Mr. Brutsis said it and it was a central part of his speech. We must agree on statistics, numbers and then give our interpretation, our ideological difference, the different strategy. I have here the '19 budget table that has recorded all the reductions that we voted on in December 2018. I would ask you not to respond to this, not to humiliate yourself and Parliament. We must once agree, as the New Democracy colleagues have said, on some elements. You cannot be covered by your newspapers and your media that nobody will understand and say what you said. You are a Minister of Finance, so you must behave like a Minister of Finance and not say what you have said before and simply say it again and say it again and hope the world does not understand. All budgetary intervention was 50-50 in the 1918 budget between reductions in taxes and expenditure. This was our strategy and it is shameful that you do not recognize it and say 'no, it should have all been in taxes'. That is an argument. What you said, however, is just to protect your insides and "false" what you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u57	Mr President, I would like to speak for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u58	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u59	The Greek people know when they saw tax cuts, when they took cleansing ENVY and income tax with reduced tax rates, when they actually paid reduced taxes. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Republic, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, I am not used to speaking today, but I do so today because I believe that what Mr Tsakalotos said needs an answer. Mr Chakatte, I am going beyond the issue of tax reductions and social security contributions. Our dominant position, successful in terms of economic results, both at work and in the economy. I come to the part you are often referring to - and you have referred to it today, namely the social state. Just before you told the Minister that it is a good thing to remember, because it is an insult if we do not remember, you seem to have forgotten that the biggest social reform of the modern Greek state was carried out by a government of New Democracy and called a minimum guaranteed income - perfect and yet - which - I recall again why you say that you should remember - you were baptizing it when we brought it to the House "Poverty Trap". Finally, with regard to the social state and social sensitivity. Two. Wages: I, Mr Tsakalote, cannot understand the reliability of the chart you have tabled. I'm not questioning it. But let us see how wages increase, Mr President, and what SYRIZA did. In 2013, Mr Tsakalotes, I come back to remember - with the Bruce 4172/2013, a new framework has been introduced for the calculation of wages according to which the assessment for the increase of the minimum wage is not arbitrarily carried out and 'on the knee', but also corresponds to productivity and to unemployment and the available income and the ability and stamina of the economy. When we brought it to the House, SYRIZA left, said "Brutsi Law will be voted against immediately when we become a government", you became a government and not only did you not vote against it, but in 2018 you brought him to the Parliament and then thanked Mrs. Ahtsioglu for confirming the Brutsis Act. Is there another proposal you make, Mr. Chakalote, for the calculation of the salary? If you have it, why didn't you do it when you were a government? But if you've now discovered something new, bring it to the House to see it. What Greece did in 1913 goes to adopt now everywhere. There is a debate throughout Europe today on the calculation of minimum wages to adopt the model and outline of our own law, namely, reliable institutions to determine how much wages should be increased. You did not abolish it because it was right, but do not say these things in the House and insult our intelligence and our memory. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, Mr Brutsi, there is also continuity in your bill, which has become the Brutsi-Achtsoglou bill, but also the whole of government policies being pursued. The most tranquil proof is the current ratification of the balance sheet and statement related to the 2019 budget, which was passed by SYRIZA and voted against by New Democracy. In the first semester government was the SYRIZA who executed it and in the second semester government it was New Democracy. Today you are voting together on the balance sheet and the balance sheet. So the continuation of government policies is confirmed by taking the thread and gloss from where the previous government left them, both in terms of budgetary figures recorded in the balance sheet and in the balance sheet, because this is the result of the balance sheet and the balance sheet, as well as in the fact that the needs of business groups are met at the heart of the current government policy. Let us remember that the 2019 budget, as the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL claimed, was the first memorial budget, that is to say, the formal and not the substantial end of the memoranda, because the SYRIZA - ANEL government had committed itself to primary surpluses by 2060, primary hailed surpluses at the expense of the needs of the people's strata, enhanced supervision and the continuation of the capitalist restructuring that shapes the environment to shield the competitiveness of business groups. If this is called a clean exit without new measures, as SYRIZA claims, then words lose all meaning. In fact, then, the government also made a number of flagrant measures that highlight its class character and orientation. With regard to taxation it reduced the rate of taxation for legal persons, i.e. companies, and at the same time reduced the rates of profits distributed, i.e. the various radars, 10% for radar workers and 22% for employees, for pensioners and for self-employed persons. This is tax justice for SYRIZA and not only for SYRIZA, but of course also for the New Democracy that took advantage of this SYRIZA pass to further reduce the two specific rates, so that the tax burdens will fall and continue to rise the backs of the populace. Only ironic can it be said that the EUR 35 billion of the tax measures in the memorandum were from the first and second memorandums. That's what SYRIZA's rapporteur said. But the SYRIZA - ANEL government has stepped on these 35 billion, legitimised and added 10 billion more tax measures that were paid with their blood and sweat by the workers and the rest of the populace. The second flagship measure by the SYRIZA government is to put additional obstacles to the right to strike. So here's what the SYRIZA government's class orientation was right after the memorials and not the memorials. Thus, the 2019 State Budget had an increase in tax revenue mainly from the populace. As regards the costs of a reduction in the costs of benefits to employees, the total pension expenditure was set in the 2019 budget and a reduction in State funding to the hospitals. This was provided for in the first Memorandum of Understanding. So the result of the execution for which you are both going to vote for it today was the EUR 8 billion primary surplus, the bloody primary surpluses that the Greek people paid for with the delay. In fact, a very small return, which is in the logic of 'came you, Giannis, to grind you oil', went to the management of the poorest people's layers, to their relief, supposedly, having made a redistribution policy on the essence of poverty and the less poor to pay for the most poor. So we had a class budget. It's over and out. Secondly, to restore the truth, with the memoranda all parties in the House today, other than the JRC, are involved, but to a greater and lesser extent. Of course the PASOK - KINAL is the champion. He voted for all three Memorandums and the first and second and third Memorandums, the New Democracy, the second and the third by legitimising the first and the SYRIZA - ANEL - brought the third Memorandum on the substance, which also legalised both the first and the second Memorandum. And Velopoulos, as a Member of Parliament with LAS, supported a government that implemented memoranda. And Varoufakis, Minister for Finance of SYRIZA, extended instead of abolishing the second memorandum for six months, so that the third memorandum can continue to be negotiated, which was, of course, withdrawn in time from the SYRIZA Government - ANEL in order to remain a useful reserve for the system. Thirdly, the next day. You come and celebrate high growth rates, Ministers. You say it'll be 7.1%. However, this development is based on what you and the previous governments of the trade unions have left on the right of survival of the self-employed and the bio-opportunities of farmers. It is indeed a development that will continue to take new anti-grassroots and anti-grassroots measures so that disbursements from the Recovery Fund can proceed, which is imposed by the Pan-European Memorandum for the People. Why should best practices be implemented in all countries for the slaughter of individual and collective rights, as applied throughout the European Union and in our country, in all countries. Therefore, this development will not put an end to the attack on workers, it will not lead to the slightest return to the enormous losses they have suffered. These measures implemented by the Government of New Democracy are necessary for the system rather than a result of the ideas of the New Republic. They lead to an unjust growth, to a development of class where the rich becomes richer and the poorer. So the result of these policies is the accuracy, because the accuracy is not a natural phenomenon that suddenly came. It is the result of the strategic choices made by all governments and the current government. For example, the accuracy of energy and the launching of the price is the result of the political liberalisation of the electricity market in our country and in total in the European Union. It is the result of the policy of the green transition that you agree and you are implementing all the parties. It is the result of our country's energy dependence on imported gas which substituted lignite, the domestic fuel. That is why we say that it is the result of a comprehensive policy on the question of accuracy. I could mention other examples, but it is not enough time for me to get far. It's an unjust growth. Mr. Hatzidakis asked me before in the hallway. The former mayor is here. He tells me: "The virus is capitalist"? Mr Hatzidakis, what I know, the results of the pandemic, the hundreds of dead people and the collapses of public health systems in all capitalist countries are the result of capitalist management. I can sign that for you. It is the result of health trade, when the possibilities - and this was seen by how quickly the vaccine was released - to deal with the pandemic are huge that could not only have saved lives, but the consequences of being very small, are not exploited for the benefit of the popular layers, when there is no primary health care when public hospitals shrink and collapse under the name of coexistence with the private business sector in health. The capitalist is Russia too, but look at Cuba with the embargo it has, with its enormous difficulties and its bans, how it does not only face, but also sends help to other capitalist countries far more developed than Cuba. That is why we say that it is the result of the capitalist way the pandemic is managed and not as a result of the pandemic itself. Fourth issue. It'll be a growth that'll be bloody. In fact, accidents at work are multiplying with geometric progress day after day: the dead in the port of Piraeus, in the "COSCO" on the piers, the dead in the ESAP last days and dozens of unrecorded other accidents, deadly but also nonfatal. Just because the protection, hygiene and insurance measures go for a walk in the name of armoring the competitiveness of business groups, because they are costs. It will be a development that will further widen the gap between the possibilities available because of the technology, the science and the productive potential available on the one hand and the level of satisfaction of the people's needs. Because wealth accumulates in less and less hands worldwide. What Mr Tsakalotos has presented, of course, applies globally. It's not the result of ideology. It is what Charles Marx said - the professor should have known about the relative added value. The productivity of labour is precisely the mechanism and tool that launches the relative added value. Therefore, it is not a question of a neoliberal management model, but the inequalities are in the very DNA of the capitalist system. From this point of view those who say that they will limit these inequalities do nothing but cultivate delusion in the world.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u64	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. He hasn't spoken to anyone from the JRC. Give me two - three more minutes because I'm the only speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u66	Let me give you one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u67	It is a development that will be uncertain, at a low rate despite the temporary launching shown by the data. A development that will pave the way for a new even deeper capitalist crisis. Because whatever you do, you cannot escape the cycle of the capitalist economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we call it clear. The evolution of things shows exactly that the program is predetermined by the needs of business groups not only of today's government but that the program is predetermined and the next government is predetermined regardless of any party composition. It should meet the needs of business groups. It should be subject to the directions of the European Union. So we say it clearly. The Greek people must show no expectation and no confidence in either the current government or tomorrow. Saviors have died. Only the people with their struggle can save the people. This has proved to be a great deal of evidence of natural disasters, fires and flooding. It proved this to be a pretext for the victorious struggle, the success of the workers at the port of Piraeus in 'COSCO'. The struggle for workers in e-food proved to be awkward. That is why it is necessary for this organization to escalate, gigantic, to acquire characteristics of pan-Hellenic coordination of the working class movement and the peoples to target the real opponent, the common enemy. The common enemy of the workers, the self-employed, the bio-family farmers, the people's strata is the urban state and the governments that serve it. They are the interests of capital and the policy of the European Union. Against this enemy, it must target this pan-Hellenic coordinated movement. And in agreement with the JRC to pave the way for radical overthrows. So, Mr President, the JRC will vote against the balance sheet and balance sheet. That's clean. It didn't have to be called into question. Because it is not just a snout of certain economic sizes, as Mr Brutsis said, but it reflects the result of a harsh, unjust, a deep class policy against the people's layers, and that is why we are voting against both the accounts and the balance sheet for 2019. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, too. A final discussion on the draft laws of the Ministry of Finance is hereby declared: a) For the ratification of the State's Financial Report for the financial year 2019 and b) For the ratification of the Balance Sheet and other Financial Statements of the Central Administration, a reference period of 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019. Asked by this House: Can the draft law of the Ministry of Finance be accepted: ‘To ratify the Financial Statement of the State for the financial year 2019’? Please, those who accept to rise up. [[This is where the acceptance of the proposal is raised.]] Apparently, most of them were raised. Therefore, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘For the ratification of the State's Financial Report for the financial year 2019’ was accepted in a single majority debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u69	Will the House also ask: is the draft law of the Ministry of Finance accepted: 'To ratify the Balance Sheet and other Financial Statements of Central Administration, reference period 1-1-2019 to 31/12-2019?' Please, those who accept to rise up. Apparently, most of them were raised. Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘For the ratification of the Balance Sheet and other Financial Statements of Central Administration, a reference period of 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019’ was accepted in a single majority debate and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u70	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to be responsible for validating the Minutes of today's sitting, including the debate and vote: (a) "For the ratification of the State's Financial Report for the financial year 2019" and (b) "For the ratification of the Balance Sheet and other Financial Statements of the Central Administration of the reference period 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u71	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-18-S1-commons.u72	With the consent of the House at 13.36' the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 19 November 2021 at 9.00, on the subject of the House's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) the topical and urgent debate and b) the debate on the number 1/8-10-2021 question of competence of the Ministry of National Defence tabled by the President of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Tsipras and eighty five Members of their party on the subject: "Why did you sign up with a provocative increase in costs - even compared to your initial calculations - the Agreement on the International Aviation Training Centre in Kalamata".
