ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 18-11-2021 delegation, the minutes of the KZ meeting, Thursday 18 November 2021, with regard to the vote on all draft laws, were ratified by the Bureau:]] ‘A) Validation of the State's Financial Report for the financial year 2019. (b) For the validation of the Balance Sheet and other Financial Statements of the Central Administration, reference period 1-1-2019 to 31-12-2019.) Ladies and gentlemen, I have a statement to make to this House: The Standing Committee on National Defence and Foreign Affairs presents reports on the draft laws of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs: A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES "For the ratification of the interchange of financial communications of the Agreement on Diplomatic Relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Hospital of Saint John the Jerusalemian Order of Rhodes and Malta and the declaration contained in a private communication by Chancellor of the sovereign Military Order of Saint John the Jerusalemian and Malta, a unilateral declaration." B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation’ C. Other: ex II. ‘Preparation of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation’ D. OBJECTIVES ‘Definition of Annex XV to the Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Entities, with regard to the World Intellectual Property Organisation’; and E. GUIDELINES ‘Preparation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 22 November 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 168/9-11-2021 by MP Magnesia of the Radical Left Coalition Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, entitled "SOS broadcasts Volos Hospital without a reply." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 178/14-11-2021, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnanias, of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct payment of aid to producers in Itolokarnania". 3. The 193/15-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Criminality of ELAS in cases of racial and domestic violence". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Preveza of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Barkas to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "An unjustified delay in repairing the Municipal Swimming of Preveza". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 190/15-11-2021 topical question by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "An unanswered questions about the closure of the ICU in the pandemic." 3. The question by number 175/12-11-2021 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Demetriou (Takis) Haritou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: 'Will you resume the procedures for the construction of the Ismou irrigation dam in the Rhodope IP?' REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) The question and application under number 307/14-10-2021 of Parliament's documents B3' South Athens Coalition of the Radical Left Mr.Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "With trumpets, legal procedures are disproportionately excessively costed 12.1 million for one year for the award, to a company of operational consultants of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and its supervisors for the necessary permanent and permanent information for the citizens."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS The following topical and urgent questions will not be discussed after consultation: The first question under number 169/10-11-2021 is the first question of the Greek MP for the construction of the PAOK 'New Toumba'. The fifth, under number 184/15-11-2021, is a topical question for the second question of the Korinthian MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: ‘Inadmissible blockage in the operation of the new Clinic Firehouse and the anti-nuclear armour of the wider region’. The question, under number 364/15-10-2021, of the circle of petitions - questions by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Trouble hazards from flooding phenomena". We will start the debate with the third under number 187/15-11-2021 on a topical question by Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "We need to take immediate life-saving measures for the monuments of the earthquake areas". The Minister will answer Mrs. Mendoni. Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The earthquake of 27 September in the wider area of the Municipality of Minoa Pedada and the Municipality of Arhanas Asterousia, in addition to the huge disasters in buildings, housing, public infrastructure and facilities, hit many monuments. Of course, we must say that the post-Semitism activity also burdens the status of monuments. The local editor of Antiquities of Heraklion, according to reports, has asked the Ministry for immediate funding in order to make life measures for some forty monuments, whether these measures relate to support, support or browsing. They therefore call for this funding and, of course, for scientific support for other specialist scientific staff. We therefore need a project on the part of the Ministry to make this a reality. We would like, therefore, today to be informed by the Minister, first of all, of the list of forty monuments - to present it to us as long as it exists - and, in particular, how he is thinking of implementing the necessary sustainable measures to ensure that these monuments are not further imposed and protected. It also informs us of what the Ministry thinks about the promotion and protection of all monuments, as we have repeatedly requested for the wider area, which has important archaeological sites and monuments. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u5	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you for your question, Mr President, for giving me the opportunity to inform you as well as the Members of this House about all the actions taken by the Ministry of Culture and Sports on the monuments affected by the earthquake of 27 and 28 September in Crete. The seismic activity, the culmination of which was the earthquake of the 5.8 rhetoric that occurred in the morning of September 27, and the many post-memorandum vibrations - and this is very important to the monuments - have so far affected not only monuments of the area of the earthquake centre, but also a large radius around them. Heraklion's Antiquities editor continues to conduct extensive autopsies in the countryside to complete the recording and tracing of lesions. It is obvious that for monuments that have time on them the metasmusmic vibration, even with strong rain or with a difference in temperatures, may also cause further damage, hence the systematic autopsies of the remission continue. Due to the large number of stable monuments of the Byzantine and post-Byzantine period in the affected area, the process is estimated to last and the autopsies must be repeated in monuments that have already been checked a month ago. These are mainly monuments dating until 1830. They are the iconographic temples of the Byzantine period and of the Venetian domination and their harm are certainly not the same, but the degree of risk and damage varies. The Antiquities Committee, in accordance with our directive, has actually tabled a list of these monuments together with its request for funding for the immediate sustainable measures of EUR 1.5 million. This money has been approved by the Ministry of Development, my ministerial decision has come out, and at least since 16 November at the disposal of the Ministry of Development. Let me note that the monuments of the Municipality of Heraklion, the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas and the Municipality of Archanes Asterousia, in which the necessary sustainable work will be carried out, were chosen following the thoughts, not only of the taxi but also of the Office of Modern Monuments and Central Services of the Ministry. In addition to the immediate sustainable measures, it is absolutely essential that the restoration studies are completed as soon as possible and in 2022, at a meeting we held the day before 17 November in Heraklion, and that the assistance of the Metsovian Polytechnic University and the University of Crete was agreed, so that the reconstruction work of the earthquake can then be carried out in the most appropriate way. The list of forty monuments will include any other ancient and newer monuments which are clearly the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture. Where direct substations are required due to a risk of collapse, the Antiquities Branch has launched appropriate actions. I would like to point out here that for monuments marked as monuments dating back to 1830 and owned by third parties and private entities, in accordance with Article 11 of Law 3028/2002, the owners are responsible for the work of lifting preparedness and rehabilitation. Here the Antiquities editor can help, help, but responsibility is with the owners. It is clear from the above that the Ministry of Culture has moved rapidly so that we do not have a further burden on the earthquakes. The partnership of the Polytechnic University of Crete and the Metsovio Polytechnics with the Ministry of Culture and the Region, where necessary, ensures a multidisciplinary approach to the issues facing monuments, given that they are specialized projects involving various scientific properties and require a parallel and thorough research response, with a strict methodology. With the assistance of the two university institutions, the best modes of intervention in the monuments will emerge, on the one hand, and a new primary research material to upgrade the seismic behaviour of the monuments of the region, which will obviously be available to both the Ministry's services and the scientific community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u8	Madam Minister, thank you for the briefing. Of course, we also read it in the press from your statements to Heraklion, when you signed the programming contracts for specific projects necessary both by the Municipality of Heraklion and other municipalities. We would like you today to be as specific as the projects you signed in Heraklion. You have visited the earthquake regions on the occasion of course, and we want them to be the same for the memorial tombs of the flooded areas. We therefore want the list of monuments that need to be sustainable, with the monuments that need to be protected and raised in view of the fact that the Ministry of Culture is due to demands from the previous period, a plan to highlight the archaeological sites on the occasion of and the creation of the new International Airport in the region, a project that you have accepted and promised. So I would like you to tell us - apart from depositing the forty monuments - what you will do to protect and promote the Palace of Galata, the Acropolis of Smari, the archaeological site of Prophet Elias, the protection of the archaeological site of Lytto with the Byzantine monuments, such as the Church of Saint Panteleimon in Bijarian or the Church of Saint Ioannis in Liliano. for newer monuments. It's not just Milos Gazepi, it's the School of Thravan. The School of Thravan is a real monument. It is a special architecture and should not have been classified as having the responsibility of the Ministry of Culture as well. In no case should there, of course, be any thought of demolition. I do not know exactly what has been decided or what the institution of the Ministry of Education intends to do. Therefore, I would be grateful as born, raised and raised in Arkalochori, where we visited the Temple of Prophet Elias who was destroyed - and next to it is an archaeological site abandoned by the Ministry of Culture - if you told us what you would do specifically for monuments. This temple, of course, must be informed that dozens before you have promised to rebuild. But your special and crucial role is precisely because of the proximity with the archaeological site. There must also be a similar decision of either the local or the Central Archaeological Council in order to proceed with the reconstruction of a symbolic temple area. Let's see the rest of the monuments. That's not all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u9	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, for the list of monuments, I will present the technical bulletin to you as submitted by the responsible Antiquities Bureau of Heraklion, where there is a list and the first description of how this office wants to deal with it. So he's at your disposal. [[At this point, the Minister for Culture and Sport, Mr Styliani Mendoni, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As I have already mentioned, earthquake studies within the territorial boundaries of the municipalities that have been declared in a state of emergency have already begun. It is mainly the Byzantine and post-Byzantine monuments of the Municipalities Minoa Pediados and Archanes Asterousia, while no disasters occurred from the earthquake in organized archaeological sites. The problems concern exclusively standing monuments. Regarding the Holy Temple of Prophet Elijah in Arkalochori that collapsed from the earthquake, I did go and see it, and what I said is that the Ministry of Culture has already launched the procedures so that at the point where the Temple was erected in 1927 it is not the same monument - that a new church should be erected in the same size, the same form and the same place as the old one, as it is located within a zone of archaeological a, i.e. unstructured protection. Nevertheless, the law allows us to satisfy this demand of the local society and on 30 November this dossier will be introduced - it has not yet arrived in Athens - for discussion at the Central Archaeological Council. Also, the Ministry will support the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas for the restoration of the Municipal School in Thrazanos, despite the fact that the relevant services of the Ministry of Infrastructure have described it as demolished. It is obvious to us that this building must not be demolished. After all, the view of demolition cannot prevail, as it has already been described as a monument since 1989. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] So the fact that it is a school beyond a monument forced us - we did so with great pleasure - to help the municipality, to be included in the programme of the Polytechnic and University of Crete, in order to deal with the seriousness of it. Now, in other affected monuments such as Panagia Faneromeni in Arhanes, you know that the problems presented by the earthquake will be dealt with in the programming contract, which we signed the day before yesterday's budget. About the Holy Temple of Agios Minas in Heraklion is an ongoing research programme of the National Technical University of Athens by means of a programme contract of 180 thousand, so that the problems arising from the earthquake can also be addressed within the framework of this research programme. There is corresponding provision for the Venetian Walls of Heraklion. For the Eastern Directional Department and Sabionara and the Stoles of Sabionara Portal are projects that are already part of the NSRF, the Regional Operational Programme of Crete with the body implementing the Restoration Department of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Monuments and the Antiquities Department of Heraklion. The section that suffered some lesions, concerning the Venetian Walls of Heraklion in the direct part of Bebos - San Francisco and this is dealt with within the co-financed programme, has a budget of 2.5 million and corresponding provision for the formation and restoration of the route of the part of the Venetian fortification of Heraklion, a project of over 4 million with the beneficiary of the Municipality of Heraklion, implemented by the supervision of the Department of Antiquities. Also, the restoration of the Neorios and the Warehouse of Alatos in Heraklion, which have experienced problems already, is under way by our responsible Restoration Department of Byzantine and Post-Byzantine Monuments. The procedure for drawing up the necessary studies, architecture static, geological.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u11	Madam Minister, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u12	I'm done. The Congressman has asked for information...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u13	Yes, but the services that prepare you for the answers must be in the time provided for in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, the answers are not prepared. We are preparing the answers and when the Member asks questions outside his question, we are obliged to answer them. So what I'm saying is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u15	I didn't ask about Heraklion. For the earthquake...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u16	Don't waste any more time. In any case, you should also be adapted to the Rules of Procedure. Mr. Kegeroglu, don't interrupt. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u17	Well, what I mean to say is that through this process, Mr. Kegeroglu, why you asked about all the monuments in the area, even about what we're going to do at Kastelio Airport...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u18	Irrespective of all this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u19	You know very well that there is provision and plan of the Ministry of Culture for all of this, with proof and evidence of the immediate and rapid start of earthquake procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u20	The third question will now be discussed under No 183/15-11-2021, first question by the Member of the Rodopi Movement of Change, Ilhan Ahmet, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Inadmissible and antisocial suspension of regional doctorates in the mountainous volume of Rhodope'. The Deputy Minister will answer Mr. Gaga. Mr Colleague, you have the floor for the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, by Decision 44770/27-10-2021, the 4th Ministry of Foreign Affairs suspends all regional hospitals in Dramas, Xanthi, Rhodope and Evros. This decision, of course, seriously affects the health of the citizens of the Rhodope mountain range, who have daily needs of access to health services, preventive medicine and other medical services. It also deactivates many more regional hospitals in tens of remote settlements located in all four municipalities of the Rhodope Regional Unit. In particular, Minister, the Polypowerful Regional Physician of Filliras, which is under the mountainous volume, now works exclusively as a vaccination centre, does not provide any other service, and does not cover other medical needs of citizens of the Municipality of Arrians. The commander of the 4th RCD himself had also publicly admitted that this is a great problem and affliction for the Muslims of the mountain tumor. The protest by the mayor Arrianes Mr. Ahmet Ritvan I think it is indicative and has sent you a letter that says that this decision significantly affects the health of our citizens, who have daily needs of access and the distance from the mountain range of Kechros and until an elderly person gets down is about eighty kilometers, that is, a hundred kilometers to go and a hundred kilometres to come is two hundred kilometres to write his medications. With what logic is lacking by thousands of citizens any access to health structures in the mountain settlements of the Municipality of Arrianes, where the Unique Polyvalent Physician Filyra works exclusively, as we said, as a vaccination centre, when climate conditions in winter are not easy with snow in the mountainous volume for our fellow citizens after ten and twenty days to go down to Komotini to serve. Madam Minister, we have been discussing this a year ago - and I am ending - when the vaccination centre in the Municipality of Arrianes had not been established and after intervention by my own institutions and bodies, we have finally achieved this. We are always ready for decisions affecting the weak and less privileged. We are asking for our question to have a clear answer from you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u22	Mrs. Gaga has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u23	Have a nice day. Thank you for the question. I will answer that we are indeed living in pandemic conditions, as you know. The region of Thrace began to have many cases and still has too many cases, so that the hospitals need to be strengthened, not just because they have more patients - at the moment there are over two hundred and fifty CIVID patients who are hospitalized in the area - but because these patients are much heavier and they need much more monitoring. So the permanent staff of hospitals are not enough to be able to cope with this huge, larger volume and needed assistance from regional centres. The suspension only took place for ten days, and regional doctors in the Sapes and Jasmos already operate twenty-four hours a day and Phillyra is indeed a vaccination centre, but with a directive to prescribe. To say, too, that Fillyra from the Sapes is sixteen kilometers, is not eighty or a hundred. There is also intact prescribing to enable all of their medicines to be prescribed with the help of both doctors and pharmacists. So the operation has not been suspended. There is also the functioning of the EMCDDA, which can carry any emergency as is done anyway, and of course the heavy emergency is transferred to the hospitals anyway. So that's the situation. The doctors all work, the regional doctors also operate sometimes a week not every day, but they did not work every day. They sometimes work a week to serve the people who are in the regions and provide them with health services. Let us all remember that they are pandemic conditions, that we have great needs for serious patients. There are countries, for example, which, during the major stress period, completely closed down any function in primary care. We never did, and we're still here for the sick. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, I have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u25	Minister, first of all you referred to the Municipality of Sappon in medical medicine, which is another municipality, you also referred to the Municipality of Jasmou, which is also another municipality. Here we are talking specifically about the Municipality of Fillira, where it is the second municipality on a geographical scale and on a population of the Rhodope Prefecture. There's a farm medical office, as we said, in Phillyra, which is a vaccination centre. And what you said there is a prescription is partly true because there too the prescription doctor has moved down. Now for the eighty kilometers I said from Kehro to the Sapes are eighty kilometers. Other than Sapphire in Philly. It's between two municipalities. That's not the point. But the mountain tumor depends on Fillyra. In any case, Minister, we see that as a government you do not show the necessary support for the ERC or by recruitment. Let me tell you another example that emerged yesterday, so that the government can understand how it treats health. Yesterday I was amazed to hear that commander 4th RS from the four anesthetics we have at the Public Hospital of Komotini, the two move to Serres, within two hundred kilometres instead of being served by Thessaloniki, so that today there is great concern among the residents of the whole county, that the surgery has stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u26	What you're talking about now is nothing to do with the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u27	Clearly, however, these came out yesterday and I would like to highlight with this, Minister - and I will come back to this with another timely question - the situation in northern Greece. You said we needed doctors downstairs to strengthen. We do not perceive as a Movement of Change to support the public health system, but on the other hand you face and contradict because anesthetics have moved to other prefectures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u28	Madam Minister, you answer the question and the incident, Mrs Gaga, if you have any information, otherwise you should answer it. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u29	In order to help even further these pandemics, as you know, we have also asked for help from individuals who have been guided, and for services, which also goes on, to help hospitals. The issue of anaesthetics was seen yesterday. We are in the process of resolving this and I will answer it immediately. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u30	We move on to the second question with number 176/12-11-2021 of a topical question by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Structurity and inadequacy of the government against the wave of precision in energy". Let's go to a group of questions to the Ministry of the Environment in which questions will be answered by the State Secretary, George Amyras. Mr. Famelos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning, Mr. Undersecretary. As you can see, Mr President, and Mr Secretary-General, the question is addressed to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Screka, who has not come. The government has chosen to send Mr Amyras, who we all know has responsibility for the environmental portfolio, and we have obviously had a lot of discussions here on these issues. It is a government's choice that shows devaluation of both parliamentary debate and the energy problem, in fact, of the extreme crisis in energy accuracy. The Minister did not come to answer a ministerial decision he should have already adopted. However, this should be judged by the citizens. The ministerial decision we are discussing, Mr Amyras, is what the government has taken over two months and it seems that it still takes time to issue despite the Prime Minister's commitment to the Thessaloniki International Fair on the grant of electricity bills for all consumers, housing and business. It took two months and no decision has been taken while you have succeeded in delivering PPC to private individuals in a shorter time. And here it seems what the difference of this government is: in order to support the citizens who are affected by an unprecedented wave of precision is being hampered by the fact that until recently the Public Power Corporation has been granted, and at a time when the government itself says that it is profitable and has considerable prospects it has not wasted any time and even bypassed Parliament and bypassed society. And so our government has led us not to have on one side energy tools, to lose public property while at the same time invokes PPC's role to give consumers discounts, to understand what a tragic situation you are driving to the energy market. But there is a serious problem, Mr President, with regard to the government's ability to understand the problem of accuracy, and it has already made three amended statements on the subsidy system, while leaving consumers unprotected because it does not have the political will to intervene in the energy market. So Mr Mitsotakis has committed at least 80% coverage of the extra costs to all consumers, but we have not heard that, and that is why we ask: What about professionals? What about the farmers? What about the water supply services? What about the publication, finally, of this ministerial decision, so that society and all the Greek real economy can understand what the instrument will be to support it? And the second thing we're asking is what will happen with the gas market, if the reports are true, that we already have 200% increases in the accounts. Because, Mr. Amyras, you have to deal with our own case. In four and a half years of the SYRIZA government has not increased the cost of electricity in order to support consumers, households and businesses. The Mitsotakis Government has only been accurate since the beginning of the government. At least, can you issue the ministerial decision promised by the Prime Minister two or more months ago? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Amyra, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Indeed, yes, dear fellow Member, Mr Famele, we have to deal with PPC in what state we received it from SYRIZA and where it is today. Where did we pick it up with PPC? It was a bankrupt operation. The stock had fallen below one euro. The company's share capital and value had fallen to EUR 130 million. What is the situation today? We received the bankrupt PPC, then, and just a few weeks ago it came out for a market share increase, asked for EUR 1.3 billion and offered it EUR 4 billion. The increase has been overestimated three times, without burdening any consumer. And the money raised from the market and especially from the international capital market, with long-term investors' investment strategies in 87%, this increase will go to an investment programme in green energy, where you had done nothing. You were in love with lignite. And it seems to me that in your question you do not ask what we have done to deal with this global wave of dishonesty in energy. You are only asking us - and you are, of course, scrupulously avoiding - what the level of increase is. First of all, let us say that as a party you have not made a concrete proposal on how to deal with the increase in tariffs from the global crisis. Not a single sentence! You're just saying you're going to tear the global increases, as you broke the memorials in 2015, you closed the banks, you went bankrupt with PPC. I'm shaking the idea of this global wave of strike assumptions had happened in 2018 with a bankrupt PPC. So now let's go see what we've done. First of all, do you not know that with Law 4839 we set up a special account called the Energy Transfer Fund? Do you not know that in this special account we have the subsidy of invoiced electricity consumption and is credited to the beneficiaries' accounts as a discount by electricity suppliers and indeed that all low-voltage consumers are beneficiaries? The subsidy, which we, through the joint ministerial decision, promote to beneficiaries, will be granted to all consumers for September, October, November and December of 2021. And as he has said many times as Minister of State, of course, we will continue to support consumers for as long as this global crisis lasts. Can we see a few things in detail? For consumers engaged in variable electricity supply tariffs, including market price-related adjustments, other than beneficiaries of the social household invoice and solidarity service invoice, the unit subsidy is set for September at EUR 30 per MWh, while for October at EUR 60 per MWh, the subsidy is set at EUR 130 per MWh for the months of November and December. For consumers who are engaged in variable procurement tariffs including market price-related adjustments, beneficiaries receive a monthly subsidy for September to EUR 30 per MWh for October 80 per MWh, while for the remaining two months of November and December the subsidy was set at EUR 150 per MWh. The rest of it will be in my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u34	Here you go, Mr. Famele. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, I was particularly surprised that we are asking the Secretary-General what he will do to support consumers, and he tells us that he has received a bankrupt PPC. Now, if it means PPC which, for four and a half years, did not make an increase in the accounts and managed to reduce its lending by 1 billion, and also to launch the program "PPC Renewables" that was not a company nor a personal one as long as the Samara - Venizelos government was, let's look for it better in its memory. It also tells us that it has had a great success in increasing equity, but I do not know whether this is reflected in the consumer accounts, Mr President. We ask him why consumers pay more. Now he says the shareholders are going to win, but this is where the public is leaving. Do you know any householders who leave a profitable business? And he's asking us if we're in love with lignite, but I'm going to refer him to today's publications saying that on Monday you have a meeting, Mr. Amyras, to activate from five to seven lignite units, because you've made a mistake in the country's design of adequacy. That is the problem you have created with your own, if you like, tolerability, with your own inability to respond to what we are discussing today. But today we are talking about the cost of the bills paid by consumers, and that is why, unfortunately, you have not told us anything. You mentioned the n.4839. Yes, I do, too, know that Mr. 4839 for bringing him in an amendment to set up the Energy Transfer Fund, you have amended him by a new amendment to put the heating allowance. You guys are so great! But this law on the Energy Transfer Fund also needs the ministerial decision that says exactly how consumers will be supported. And we ask you: will you take her out? Because we know today that the confectionery and ovens in Athens pay more than 1,000 euros a month's current. That means they're losing a worker. And you haven't answered yet. Appropriate amounts are paid to farmers and you have not answered them yet. So are we specifically asking you to make the ministerial decision? Because of your weaknesses, while there was a wholesale price of EUR 52 in November 2020, today the average wholesale trade is 220. And that, while we are first in Europe. Do not connect it to the exogenous agents. You have a responsibility because you do not control and you do not regulate the market. And Greece is a champion and unfortunately is a champion in November. And that's what consumers will pay for, Mr. Amyras, you know how? For every 1 euro, Mr President, there will be a further 2 euros in January. The 1 euro will pay 3 euros because of the Mitsotakis Government, Mr. Amyras. And that's what you haven't answered. The EUR 18 that has been made for 39 euros - and no one knows when to publish this ministerial decision - is not enough to cover this huge, unprecedented wave of accuracy. And what exactly do you do? You cannot issue a ministerial decision. In fact, in order to be able to cover this wave of accuracy, while you do not want to interfere with the manipulation of a oligopolistic market - because we have price manipulation and the Greek industry, Mr Amyras, not SYRIZA - you, you are using the resources from the rights of greenhouse gases, an account of a billion, Mr President, that had to go to the climate, make our society more resilient, save energy, promote renewable energy. Use recent announcements of 70%. So you will also amend the ministerial allocation decision. You guys are so great! Two amendments, two amended ministerial decisions and the ministerial decision on the subsidy is still awaiting. Is that the government of the finest? And you will give - to come back - 70% of the funds from rights to feed the accuracy. I mean, you're going to fund climate money. And you will pay the heating allowance from there? Are these the budgetary margins for "vizin" development? Will you pay from the rights and the heating allowance? So, the Treasury doesn't contribute anywhere since it doesn't have any financial room?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u36	Mr. Femmelle, you have a question later. Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u37	That is why, Mr President, we want the Minister to tell us how the accuracy of the accounts will be covered by all consumers and what will happen with gas. You haven't answered us, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u38	Good, it's a clear question. You're writing it to the question. Mr. Amyra, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I'm glad Mr. Famelos spoke about the profitable PPC, the blooming PPC. It blooms from the end of 2019 onwards. So far it's been a bankrupt operation. And if you do not realize that you had gone bankrupt and if you do not understand the connection between PPC's position and the increases in energy tariffs, then what am I supposed to say? Also, I see you keep allerging when you talk about excellence, but it doesn't matter. Greek citizens very well know what they want and who they trust for the difficult times, such as those of international growth. In other words, it makes it seem that SYRIZA blames the government for the global energy crisis! Where did that sound? Do you not know that increases in tariffs via mainly natural gas are due to the reserves, to the underground tanks, to parameters affecting energy, to the available gas routes, to the values of pollutants and to the international values of liquefied natural gas? Don't you know that? But we as government are next to consumers, and that is why we support them - and let you do it - and let us not hear them - as follows: Consumers who are committed to electricity supply tariffs but do not include market-related adjustment clauses, the unit subsidy is set for each month in the application of this aid to EUR 20 per MWh. In all cases the subsidy is granted for the first 300 kW of each month and in case the monthly electricity consumption is higher than these limits the subsidy is granted up to that limit. You ask us, you ask the Government and the Ministry of the Environment - which is unitary - has a common slap and either supports the responses to the current situation, the Minister or the State Secretary - is the same - for gas prices and if 200% increases are true and how they will be dealt with. First of all, let us say that the vast majority of industrial customers enjoy protection at any price as they buy gas at constant levels of 2020. For domestic consumers, PPA has already committed itself to providing and providing a discount of at least 15% on gas, and in fact has been entrusted with a lasting control mechanism to ensure all commercial confidentiality and law guarantees of free competition. In the case of natural gas and in this case the government will show - as it has done - the appropriate social sensitivity. We're next door to the citizens. We're not gonna let anyone stay behind. And as with the first EUR 600 million to the energy transition fund, we have come forward - the first country to the European Union that did so - so we will continue then. And to make our cross that we don't have a PPC the way you had it ragged by SYRIZA. You made her a bankrupt, deported company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u40	We move on to the first with 170/10-11-2021 topical question in the second question of the new Republic of Athens Mr.Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'No special infrastructure for the use of electric cars'. Mrs. Pipilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u41	Minister, first of all, let me remind you that we are both part of a party, New Democracy. From the time he was president, Kyriakos Mitsotakis had announced to all tones the emphasis he will give if he is elected Prime Minister of the country on environmental issues and especially on the development of RES and electricity. The presence of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the recent COP26 made a very big impression. Let us also remind you that from 2019 onwards especially through your Ministry, government policy has exactly something to do with developing environmental protection in various ways. So your Ministry's initiative on electromobility and subsidisation is to say that it has swept through the bikes. But it did not happen the same in electric cars because there is the high cost. But there's one problem. According to the Association of European Automotive Manufacturers (ACEA), Greece is just in the last position of European countries that have just 0.2% per 100 km, chargers making this very difficult to expand electricity drive across the territory. Will the Minister therefore ask what moves and, in any case, if you have the possibility and incentives, will the Ministry of the Environment promote the acceleration of the installation of chargers for electric cars? Will you also ask your counterparts in the European Commission to provide for a common technology for all types of electric cars so that there are no malfunctions in charging, which will allow the wide spread of clean energy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u42	Mrs. Pipili as a journalist knows the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u43	Of course, but I'm always in time, almost always.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u44	Hey, hey! Let's get started. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u45	That's what I almost said! Thank you. Dear Mrs Pipilis, indeed our party is pioneering, I can say at European level in the transition from an old economy and with old habits of moving towards a green, ecological, human-friendly and anthropogenic activity. We are committed - but we have done so - to two milestones, of course, to the Green Deal of Europe and, of course, to the Fit for 55, i.e. simply to say it up to 2050 and the country like the whole of the European continent - a very ambitious objective - to be carbonized, to be climate neutral. So let's see how many electric cars in the first place and bicycles and vehicles are mainly moving in Greece and what happens with the charging elements. According to the data of the association of importers of car dealers between January 2013 and October 2021, that is, within eight years a total of eight had been registered eight thousand seventeen new electric vehicles in our country. The years 2020 and 2021 were classified as seven thousand five hundred ten cars. What does that mean? That in these two years we have seven and a half thousand cars in a total of eight thousand seventeen, that is, a thousand two hundred seven electric cars all and all had been registered about 2013 by 2020. Let's go see the chargers, too important a question for you. Today, around a hundred public charges exist on Greek territory, the four hundred of them belong to PPC, overcoming the European target for a charger per ten electric vehicles. But that's not good enough for us. So is there a legislative initiative that is being implemented and what does it say? We are turning to the municipalities, to local government, and we tell them to join in sustainable mobility or urban regeneration programmes, to build a square, a different town complex, they should definitely have charging points. So the municipalities that have submitted proposals for charging points - it is impressive - were three hundred and twenty-eight. We have thirty-two municipalities in the country and the three hundred and twenty-eight have already submitted proposals to build charging points, which will be financed by both the Green Fund and the Recovery Fund. How many are these, dear Mrs. Pipilis? So according to the figures, within the year, we will have ten thousand nine hundred and ninety new charging points in the country and we do not stop there. We have from the Recovery Fund 80m euros which we are planning for a 'Fortress' programme called 'Fortress everywhere', in addition to the municipalities that in the next year and in the next few months they will have built eleven thousand charging points. In addition to the existing ten thousand incrementally thousands, we will therefore also have thousands of other charging points for points within municipalities in urban and suburban areas, the network of national roads and points of interest for boarding, boarding and private areas, but also with public access. The rest I'll tell you in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u46	Mrs. Pipilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u47	Needless to say, it is very optimistic all that you have already told us. Let's get a little responsibilities for the municipalities. I am pleased that so many municipalities - as you said - have already put forward proposals in this regard. The municipalities, however, must also set points on the roads with special ramps, so that a citizen, for example, who moves to Acharnon and sees that his battery falls, can enter legally in this cave, that there are PPC or other private chargers there, because only by this flexibility without preventing others, the valuable use of electric car can be drastically extended. But we must stress that it may be expensive - of course, slowly - prices will fall - but it is extremely interesting even if you do not pay fees, you do not pay gasoline and you go through the ring freely and all that. It should also be stressed that planning must be on either side, for example on the national roads, because there is this laughing point here. You're at St. Theodores Attica, you want to charge the car, but on the right side from St. Theodores Attica to Scaramaga, there's still no gasoline station that powers, which means you have to go to Elefsina to find an air bridge, go back to Athens-Korinthos National Road, charge and then do around - everyone around. So, whatever you've loaded on the battery, you're running it all around - all around. I think, therefore, that you have calculated all this and that there should be a flexibility in your ministry as well. For example, what I said to you, it must be proposed to the European Commission - and this is where the Mitsotakis managed and convinced them of the Pan-European Certificate of Vacuum - because each manufacturing company cannot have different chargers, i.e. bolts, because there is a phenomenon if you have one brand to go up to Pella and have the gasoline charger in the other brand. I think that this must be absolutely, instantly, to achieve our goal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Amyras has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs. Pipilis, our love for Athens connects us, we both walk together. We have both dealt with the commons of the Municipality of Athens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u50	I don't ride a bike, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u51	You're not riding a bike, but you're a bad walker. You have made very good things of a practical nature, the municipalities are not to place any place on the chargers and, furthermore, there are socks, so that traffic is not prevented for another reason, so that there is no defamation of the power supply, causing a blitzing backwards. That's right. We've predicted it. There is a guide to the management of the financial programme I told you before, the Green Fund to the municipalities, which tell them on conditions and criteria how to place them. We will not tell them where they will do it, they will decide which areas and how, but we will tell them what the criteria are for any placement. Do not prevent traffic, safety and other such criteria. So this guide I'm telling you exists on the priority axis - so it's called - urban revitalization and other environmental balance actions. I would also like to say to you that municipalities in public spaces, of course, will, if they have met these criteria and between the reloading points and hybrid vehicles - I have failed to say it - they will also be motorised bicycles marked with exclusive positions for them. We will not confuse bikes and motorbikes with cars for safety reasons and so that there is a distinct picture in relation to the electric movement in any city that moves. You have raised a very important issue for there to be common chargers for all. We have a bitter experience with cell phones. It took the European Union ten years to reach a single platform, a single charger...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u52	And it has not yet been implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u53	And yet it has not been implemented, but it has been decided and it is certain that it will soon be implemented. We in the Ministry of the Environment and put it in the official and informal meetings and in the Councils of Ministers and in the special councils of a formal nature and you can say more easily. We, therefore, have put it and we will put it that there must be a common charging technology for all electric vehicles. We regard electromobility as a valuable tool for green European policy, and we believe that we will find the common place with our European counterparts so that also with alliances we can promote what logic requires common chargers for all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u54	We move to the second with number 171/11-11-2021, a top-level question for the first cycle of SYRIZA MP Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamulakis on the subject: "Which is the design of the Ministry of Environment and Energy for the urban reconstruction of the earthquake in Heraklion". Mr. Mamulaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Secretary, first of all, I do not hide my surprise and displeasure, since I have tabled this topical question, as you know from 27 September, because of these intercurrent seismic actions, with the culmination of what happened in Arkalochori in the 6 Richter earthquake, and while three times this debate has been tabled, the Minister responsible, Mr Tagaras, for urban and spatial planning - and, unfortunately, it is not up to you to discuss and see whether you have the knowledge and adequacy to respond to this - has moved this debate three times to get here today, to be absent and replaced by you on this issue. However, we shall proceed to the point of order. As you know from the beginning of the summer we have had several seismic actions in the wider region. In fact, we pointed out in time and before the great catastrophic earthquake took place, the need to speed up urban and spatial studies on the spatial development of the region, given the existence of Kastelion Airport, where the specific spatial plan should be accelerated. So we have this and here I would like to start with my protagonist in my question, Mr Amyras. You know how important - in addition to restoring the existing damages and property in the region - it is to speed up the procedures for spatial reconstruction and urban development, given that the critical transition, the urban transition of a region which has been seriously affected in the previous period, but also on the other hand, has a strong prospect of developing given the existence of the International Airport or the creation of the closest of the settlements of Arkalochori, as well as of many other areas. Here, then, we have the following: We have since 2016 a serious institutional tool that the previous government left as a legislative reserve. I'm talking about Law 4447/2016 that just serves that purpose. In other words, it should come with point-by-point ad hoc interventions many times for spatial and urban interventions to quickly mature a treaty. This has happened in northern Greece with relocations of settlements, due to the lignite areas and the need for the national economy to relocate, but mainly because of the natural disasters that have occurred lately. And it is now a regularity, Mr President, and we must understand that natural disasters are constantly growing and will be a normality for all of us. So in this respect, for the question. The question is: will the Government, Mr Secretary, take advantage of this legislative tool - and I refer to the n. 4447/2016- the specific spatial plans for the region concerned, the wider area of Arkalochori, as well as more generally in Heraklion Prefecture in the center of Heraklion; And most importantly, what is planning, where will the resources be drawn from so that studies can go ahead and mature, how will they go forward and when will they be completed? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Undersecretary has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u57	Dear Mr Mamulakis, you have raised several questions. I'll answer everything to you both to protology and denology. The strong earthquake that hit Arkalochori and the surrounding region on 27 September certainly caused, as we all know, serious problems in infrastructure, in facilities, in houses and in shops. Of course the government has sterilised in order to deal with this situation. So what did the government do? I would like to say that, in order to know what is going on, what is the framework for which we are discussing. Firstly, it provided housing assistance to citizens and businesses to restore buildings, which is made with 80% free state aid and 20% interest-free loan with the public guarantee. It provided first aid for housing and seismic businesses, with 14,000 euros for buildings that have been completely destroyed, 8,000 euros for buildings with serious damage and 3,000 euros for buildings with slight damage. We have, of course, provided compensation for the construction and repair of the first needs, with EUR 6 000 in the homes that have been completely destroyed, EUR 4 000 in the case of those with serious damage and EUR 2 000 in the case of those who are resident. Exemption from the ENVY of all people there for the years 2021, 2022, 2023. We supported professional and rural businesses for damage to building equipment, engineering equipment, raw materials, goods and damaged vehicles. We have suspended all accredited, outstanding and due tax and insurance obligations for six months. We donated rent to cover temporary housing costs of residents. You ask, then, whether we intend to proceed with the activation of the special spatial plan tool. The new data, which were created after the earthquake in the area of the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas, indeed insist that the urban study process of the settlements of Arkalochori, Lassithi, Kastili and Polytheas be completed as soon as possible, since of course there will be a strong building activity for people to rebuild their homes. So, with a view to achieving a modern infrastructure in terms of urban planning, the Ministry of the Environment and the Minister responsible, Mr Tagaras, work hard and promote the quickest possible completion of urban studies, so that the new buildings in the settlements that I mentioned above can be built according to approved urban studies and not with the Presidential Decree of 1981, which has so far been implemented. In the remaining settlements of the area, the building of new dwellings is currently being built with the conditions of construction and the limitations of construction within the limits of the settlements with a population of up to two thousand inhabitants mentioned in the 2011 FEK. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I refer to this point and I conclude, to say in my dentistry the rest, that the urban extension study of the city of Arkalochori, which you ask us, is pending, because the municipality, while sending to the Decentralised Administration of Crete, the objections raised during the posting before the Board of Urban Affairs and Disputes Heraklion, the Decentralised Administration of Crete have not yet been put forward in this regard, so that the process can proceed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u58	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u59	Mr President, I am verifying my assessment at the beginning of our debate, since my dear Minister - and I am very sympathetic to him - is unfortunately very sympathetic to his protagonists, in response, made it clear that he does not have a full picture of the situation. And why am I saying that, Mr. Amyras? You have given me and spent 70% of your time to list the government's actions to heal the problem, the immediate problem with regard to the compensation and restoration of dwellings, which, of course, I am passing away to you to know that they are governed by many uncertainties and many salts that have happened. It's a help thing. Should we talk about the back-up platform that's already fallen? Say that the loan you mentioned is mortgage loan? Say that there is a wall of 150 square feet, which does not allow the rest of the small and medium-sized businessmen in the region to breathe and be able to restore their homes and businesses? And much more, but this is not our question today, hence the paradox that exists, because you have brought an answer that has nothing to do with the question I ask you. And I'm coming back. I'm starting at the end, from your end. For the delay you take responsibility for the municipality concerned because of the failure to complete, if I understood correctly, the Council of Political Affairs and Challenges and the delay in response from the Decentralised Administration of Crete. The information I have is completely different, but still the question that exists is another: what is the way, what is the legislative tool you are going to go about in this case? I told you that there is an excellent legislative instrument at the table from the previous SYRIZA government, Mr.4447, who has already been exploited with excellent results in the recent past. Why don't we move on here? And if not, very nice, but what is the alternative plan? Because here you say to me, you say to me that Mr Tagaras is speeding up procedures of study maturation, without knowing what is planning, where the resources are coming from and, above all, when they will be completed. For those who are familiar with Jerusalem, we know that the urban issues and the maturation of such studies until we get to an implementation stage - which is still, in our case - are quite time-consuming. So, we also owe this as a Qualified Opposition on time to strike the alarm bell for any delays. So I come back to this House and tell you that there are two settlements, Mr President: the village of Chamari and the settlement of Sabas, which are virtually inhabitable. For the village in Rusohoria, it must be relocated, relocated, and indeed in an area which is to be provided for, in order to clearly identify large public spaces, to make use of the existing building coefficient and certainly also to take account of the whole of the studies of the region's new seismic status because things have changed irresponsiblely. Crete is no longer the same. This catastrophic earthquake was the most powerful earthquake of the last century in Greece and I stress it, not only because the intensity of the shooters was such, not only for the low focal distance, but mainly because there was the greatest terrain that ever occurred in an earthquake recorded in the Greek area with two and a half meters. They are extremely high for the familiars, these tensions and these accelerations. I think that this approach should speed up your process of studying, urban and spatial development before it is too late. They're in danger. There have been appeals in twenty seconds, Minister, these people, without wanting to do so, and even now they have some ambiguity within them about what will happen: will they stay in their place or leave? The answer is one and one way: urban reconstruction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u60	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, Mr Mamulaki, the Cretan regions will stay at their place, and we will do what we are going through, as we already do, to support and return to their everyday lives, just as their lives were before the earthquake. I'm going straight to the point of the matter. Special urban planning plan for the area due to the emergency, following the specifications of local urban planning plans. The study of the specific urban planning of the area of Minoa Pedadas will be carried out in the emergency process, quickly. And to have the framework, because you mentioned to me Law 4447, of course, we will also use this law, as we will use Law 4759/2020 for amending in some respects this law. So there is a continuity in the state. Our legislative function is not just to make it possible to have a matching of the realities and the way wounds are healed, and to give some impetus to some areas. So, of course, these issues in the region will be dealt with through the urban planning process by approving the local urban planning plan, what you say, namely No 4447, as well as the special urban planning plan through Law 4759. Where are we today when we draw up local urban plans? We are in the process of processing by the competent Commission, which was set up to assess requests for participation and prioritisation, as is the case here for those who are in each phase of implementation, taking into account areas affected by catastrophic phenomena. So the number one priority is in these areas with local urban plans and the new technical specifications that they impose and we have established together. There is also the promotion of the perception of facing the climate crisis, of course, and of managing the consequences. The Ministry of Environment and Energy has already decided to include relevant studies in the local and specific urban projects financed by the RRF, the Recovery and Resilience Fund. This will solve years of problems, so we will face radical and effective exceptional circumstances, such as those of Arkalochori and surrounding areas. We are therefore seeking and implementing projects and programmes of hyper-local and strategic importance - I am referring to the region - for urban regenerations, for environmental protection, of course, to address the serious consequences of this natural disaster and we will, where necessary, ask for more money from the European Union. In this category, therefore, we also belong to the Municipalities of Arkalochori, Frassanou and Kastelini, which, as I have said, we have put them first and, in accordance with the emergency procedure, will be completed quickly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u62	We are now going to two questions by Mr Kriton Arseni. The first is the fifth under No. 185/15-11-2021 topical question by MP B2 West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The HYTA Globe poisons the air of Western Athens and Lecanopedi". That's an interesting matter. We have time, so I won't push you with the bells. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you for that interest. Minister, I am surprised that you are here because you have been removed on 21-1-2021. In any case, the Minister has the right to be represented by anyone else. Mr. Hatzidakis once came in. Mr. Screkas is obviously avoiding this. In order to discuss this issue, however, I would like to ask you first whether you have visited the Ghost HYTA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u64	What about me? Of course. And two weeks ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u65	Has Mr. Screkas visited him, the Minister responsible? He hasn't been to him. It has not visited what the European Parliament's report described as a'report of environmental chaos, disease and human suffering for the next three generations'. That's why he's not here. I've visited the Ghost Hill many times, and twice I've walked him from point to point. Last time was a few days ago. The image is dramatic. And he visited him along with the "Western Front" and the citizens who have suffered since the '60s the consequences. We have the restored cells, that is, what the study predicted to be covered with waste. They're done, covered, restored. On top of them illegal landfills were created. New landfills, new landfills, have been decided on in various illegal procedures. They were rediscovered, over and above others. We've reached the 200 meters of waste, with leek that's ready. We may have victims soon. At the same time in the restored HSY, the Uncontrolled Waste Disposal Area that was restored anyway, as we have uncovered Psytalia sludge. The mountain's tickling. Mr President, the mountain makes steam as if it were a volcano in various parts of it, the mountain from the garbage, and we have this sludge to be uncovered, boiling. And underneath what? The uncontrolled dump of HYTA Ano Liosias, the old, HYDA Ano Liosias. The smell that comes out of there is the one that scans the Race and probably the one that reaches Petropolis in summers or sometimes in Cameroon. We have an environmental crime, as the European Parliament has described it, which is evolving in our eyes. You are now moving on to the illegal expansion of Durus and you are already filling it up, while it is manufactured, with waste. Even this illegal decision predicted that only recycling residues will be buried there. And because recycling has collapsed, nearly 75% of waste is buried, rather than 25%, which is reduced. And it'll be filled before it's almost built. It is created in a mountain of waste and in the intermediate you find a void that you have created with the waste, you fill that too. Then another cavity is created, you fill it. Where's this story coming from? When will this environmental crime end? I would like you to tell us in particular these vapours that come out of the sludge, what composition they have, what toxic substances they are coming out of there. I would like you to tell us, the various fires, which usually start around the sludge, like the recent one in August, what pollutants are ejecting, what is the danger to public health of the inhabitants of western Athens, the West Attica. And you know what I was told by Democritu? The air, the pollutants from the Race enter into the great cloud and they are all shared. We've wasted years of life all the people of the Lecade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u66	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let us say that the Government and the Ministry of the Environment very clearly have too high in our priorities to solve and deal with problems that have existed for many decades around waste management. In order to ensure good air quality in the Ministry of the Environment, we are drawing up and implementing with polite programmes for measuring, recording and evaluating the levels of pollution. We appreciate the air quality and supervise the operation of the National Stations network to monitor the quality and variations in the atmosphere. We are therefore proposing measures and programmes to limit emissions of pollutants and we are in complete harmony with the relevant ministries. Now, despite the fact that others testify to the timeliness and other questions you ask orally, we go to what you said orally. So you ask us about the smoke from the fire, as you write it, if it was toxic. Well, in the Attica Lecade, there are fourteen stations on the National Air Pollution Monitoring Network on a 24-hour basis, three hundred sixty-five days a year. So there we have constant measurements of air pollutants, namely nitrogen monoxide, nitrogen dioxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone and benzene and suspended particulates. It is important to stress that the positions of the measuring stations meet both the requirements of national and Union law, cover all types of urban construction, traffic stations, industrial, urban and regional backgrounds, so that we have a better picture - the most accurate - of air quality assessment and management. Now, let's go see for them in particular what happened on August 6, 2021. In order to conclude that tobacco from this fire was toxic, toxicity from the measurements of the network with specific pollutants should of course be documented. There were therefore excesses in the concentration levels of suspended particles and the relevant department of our Ministry immediately informed the Ministry of Health so that the environmental emergency information announcements to the public can be made. However, no excesses were observed for no atmospheric pollutants. Even EDNA's measurements are made by a certified laboratory and for the time at issue, i.e. there in August, the concentration of the measured toxic substances ranged at lower levels than the limits set by environmental legislation. Generally all gaseous pollutants outside the ozone layer showed increased concentrations of a large area of fire and not only in the area of the incident but also in remote areas. On 6 August, therefore, in the case of suspended particles below 10 micrometers, the average 24-hour concentration recorded on the network ranged from 65 microgram per cubic metre at the station of Thracomacedon to 107 micrograms per cubic metre at the station of Liosia, which is actually higher than the 24-hour limit, which is 50 micrograms. However, we must point out that the concentration of suspended particles to be considered as being exceeded must be seen more than thirty-five days per year. The day after the fire, on August 7, we had a drastic decrease in concentrations due to the diffusion of pollutants. In addition, the concentration levels of suspended particles did not reach the values provided for in the legislation and national and Union legislation for the implementation of short-term action plans. Let me note this for the fire. The fire entered the site by dragging from the cemetery of Ano Liosia, burning small areas, the devastated area in time from the Single Inter-State Association of Attica, and thus pierced into the HYTA. HYTATA workers immediately, by own means, stopped its expansion. They continued their repression and outside the site of the West Attica waste management and was controlled on the same day. The refreshments you may be talking about were indeed in the next few days and were quickly dealt with by the Firefighting. Throughout last summer's fires, we in the Ministry of the Environment followed the air quality at all times, based on measurements of the air pollutants network stations, i.e. - and again - for nitrogen monoxide, sulphur dioxide, carbon monoxide, ozone, benzene and particulate matter. We, therefore, as the Ministry of the Environment, are here, we are vigilant and we are taking action to ensure the quality of the atmosphere, of course, by protecting public health and the natural environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u68	Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you say the fire started at the cemetery.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u70	The fire extinguisher says it, not us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u71	The cemetery is at the border with the sludge sludge. The mountain of sewage sludge rests in the cemetery. It wasn't just that fire. We're talking fires on 2-2/2021, 26-6-2019, 29-6-2019 and so on. The fires are lasting, always around where the sludge is. You're telling us you're counting and it's all right. Really, we're surprised: How do you measure them? Because throughout western Athens there is a counter in Peristeri, which does not count either PM 2.5, what is evacuated primarily from waste incineration, or dioxins. Neither in the Race and in Liosia is there. Do you count it from the Thracians or Eleusina? Or St. Friday? Only there do you measure some more gases, mostly micro particles. Where are the measurement stations? That is why the European Commission makes reference to air quality, because you do not measure it. I would expect you, at least, to come and tell us today that you will start counting dioxins in the Race. I would expect you to come and tell us today that you will measure dioxins and microparticles both in the Municipality of Phyllis and in the municipalities of western Athens. Do you want to know what happens to air quality or not? I called the environmental inspectors before you actually broke their responsibilities. I invited them and denounced the stench in Petropolis. They came, counted and asked to change the limits and the methodology for measuring amosomia in the Gender CYTA and to include this in GDP. It didn't happen. The views of environmental inspectors have not been taken into account because they are disturbing. The same GNI does not include the sanitary and hazardous waste incinerator etc. And let me say one more thing. This GDP includes something. A photovoltaic in the former HIDA Liosia. Do you know where the ex-HAD Liosia is? Thirty meters from the wall of the parcel, the Greek Chinese wall four and a half kilometers, which was abandoned, there next to the HYTA Globe. That's what you do and what you don't do. I invite you to start counting the pollutants. I invite you to take action. I urge you to stop this crime in the Race, the denials, stop the sludge, the uncovered to date. Go see her. A boiling mountain, steaming, Minister, as if it were an active volcano. You're going to see it. We need to do all this today. This crime right now costs human lives. And it does not cost human lives only in western Athens, only in Petroupoli, only in Cameroon and other neighborhoods. It's worth all over the plateau. As you said, the gases are dispersed. Where are they spreading? They enter into the great pot of the cloud, the toxic vase of the cloud, Athens, in which the citizens are caught.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u72	Here you go, Mr. Amyras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. You asked me who counts the pollutants, and what results it gets, and if it's in measurements and dioxins. Sure. First of all, let us say that the EDNA, the Single Inter-State Association of Attica, implements a detailed environmental measurement programme, certified, of course, by an accredited laboratory, in accordance with national and Union legislation. We have access and we monitor their own measurements every day. What do they count? So you don't have the question, which is reasonable, I don't say it negative. They measure suspended particle odors, gaseous pollutants such as furans, dioxins, polychlorinated biphenyls and any other pollutant falls into this atmospheric emitted category. The measurements of the certified and accredited laboratory - valid - for the period in question, but also in general, range from zero to below the limits laid down by environmental legislation. Let me point out, of course, - you may not know - that methane and carbon dioxide are not considered as gas pollutants. They are greenhouse gases and are not considered as pollutants harmful to the human body, scientifically. You also ask me about sludge. Here, let us say that there is a decision by the Council of State, by the Suspension Committee, that the Single Status Association of the Attica-ESNA - has accepted the deposition of the bleaching in the Gender Cystolic, but - be careful - comes from the second degree of treatment of Attica sewage from the Pseudo-Psystalgia of the EEAS. The storage of the primary sludge, which you refer to in your timely question, has stopped being placed on the Gender CYTA for 15 years. On this issue, however, we have done - the Ministry of the Environment, namely - five recent autopsies. We sent the Environment Inspectors of the Southern Greece Inspection Body on 17 July in the waste burial area, on 22 July in the drain processing plant, on 7 July in the incineration plant of infectious and dangerous waste from the sanitary plants, on 7 July in the mechanical recycling and composting plant of the waste and on the company 'Biogas Energy Ano Liosia SA' with the distinctive title 'BEAL SA'. From the autopsies and the information collected, it was found that we had a breach of compliance with the approved environmental conditions and in accordance with the legislation and, of course, with the mandate of the Minister for the Environment, Kostas Skreka, for such infringements, what did the relevant department of the Ministry of the Environment do? Immediately drafted an audit report, summoned those responsible, confirmed the act of infringement and recommended the imposition of a fine. So all the legal actions, procedures and inspections were carried out and, of course, by our Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u74	We move to the fourth, with number 186/15-10-2021, a top-circuit question from the Member of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Teblonion Corfu and Transhipment of Waste (TEP)". Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u75	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this question is close, because we see that the Gender HYTA and the environmental crime that is happening there is being taught to the rest of the HYTA. For the information the Minister said, which admitted that the state, the government, does not count the pollutants in West Athens, West Attica, but told us that they are counted by the ECHR, we would like you to tell us where these figures are announced, because we did not find them anywhere. Now, we have received a letter of warning about the inappropriate implementation of 1999/31 and 2008/98 to CYTA. What do these two instructions include? They actually include our obligations to recycle. They tell you what I told you earlier, namely that you're beginning to illegally cover the gaps that you're creating in already reinstated cells with mixed waste, without even recycling, crime against crime. In the "Teploni" HOTA we also have illegal waste deposits in the restored cells. Mixed: We have illegal extensions of licenses, convoys, recently fell wall. At the same time, however, we have the shocking! - tied waste, Minister, that would go in there for a year and a half and stayed there forever. I've visited the site, it hasn't rained for several days, and there were the draught junk that was there, it was a stream of black junk, the toxic from the packed waste, and they were going down to Lake Bretanus and the water-saving mountain, in a very heavy area. And a little below we have the oxymometer shape of another municipality, the Municipality of Northern Corfu, to make a waste transhipment station within a residential area. I visited the place. I met a woman who's been through chronic health conditions and has left her children from the home from the dysosmia, she's ready to leave. She fights her personal battle and fights with criminal waste management. That is why we ask you to commit to canceling - not you, the Minister with responsibility - the ministerial decision on the disposal of waste in ongoing cell remedial works and even more than the calculated space of the HYTA in Templon, tell us what action has been taken to remove illegally deposited bulk waste and parcels in the area. What steps have been taken to move recycling on the island, which has stopped in the Municipality of Central Corfu, is under 5%? We ask you to cancel the installation of a Waste Transhipment Station located near Templelon at a distance of fifty meters from homes, as well as the legalisation of the transhipment of waste from a municipality that takes place in another adjacent municipality and I am talking about the municipality of Northern Corfu, i.e. to stop this spread of environmental crime from HYTA to Corfu and everywhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u76	Here, Mr. Amyras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Arsenis, you must stop perverting my words, do it all the time. Here we meet twice a week, at least with the timely questions, as soon as I give you an answer that you do not like, you go out and say, "Oh, the Minister confessed" - so, with perverted verbs - "or admitted that they don't count..." - as you said now - "...the pollutants". Is that what you understand? Repeat, do you understand? Do you, too, belong to that category of people who have a problem understanding a written text or an oral word? I can't believe it. So I think you're doing it on purpose. I spoke to you before about the fourteen pollutant monitoring and measurement stations, which twenty-four hours over three hundred sixty-five days a year make the measurements. Evidently you are satisfied with a creative ambiguity, such as this creative ambiguity that you painted as the basic artery of the then ruling party of SYRIZA in 2015 and you were close to flying out of Europe, you closed the banks and you still haven't had a word of self-criticism. Now let's go see some of the waste and their management in Corfu. For many years there have been serious problems on this island, the wonderful island of the Ionian Sea. We all remember the indignant reaction of the people three years ago, where it was summer and you saw the mountains bigger than the rubbish than - I know - the buildings of Corfu, the wonderful mansions. We all know and remember the incidents in Lefkimmi. In recent years, however, some important steps have been taken to resolve this problem, first of all, by deciding to transfer waste from the island to a processing plant in Kosani. Let's go see what happened at the Templonium HYTAS: On 14 October the damage was actually caused by the extreme weather phenomena of "Balos". He collapsed part of the perimeter wall of the first cell. The Waste Management Body of the Ionian Islands reacted immediately. Within a few days it proceeded with the process of studying and drawing up a technical bulletin for the necessary financing of the projects. Rehabilitation work will relate not only to the collapsed perimeter wall, but also to other points where weaknesses have been found. The intervention will therefore be large and the work will start as soon as possible. We now go to what you ask me or call me, to cancel the ministerial decision on the disposal of waste. This is where I deserve to mention some evidence. According to the Solid Waste Management Body of the Ionian Islands, they themselves applied for a Ministerial Decision invoked Article 88 of Law No.468520. So what was the purpose of this intervention? It concerned the priority of making eighty thousand cubic metres of urban solid waste deposited downstream of the intermediate management facility and ten thousand pieces of parceld waste available in empty spaces until the final waste relief is achieved, as foreseen. According to the Waste Management Body itself in the Ionian Islands, this Convention on the implementation of the HYTAF restoration works were also carried out, such as the development of perimeter walls of the integrated HYTAF which ensure the stability of its greens and other work, of course, provided for in the project study. From the measurement - and this is the important - of the volume of the new intermediate cell - which has been constructed almost whole - a residual capacity of 40 thousand cubic metres has emerged in order to achieve the planned, approved final design and relief of the cell. What does that mean? It means that the intermediate cell still has a reception area at least or - I will say - up to eight thousand cubic metres of uncompressed waste that is exposed outside the cells of the HYTAF, of course, provided - and that will be done, because we are from above and the control mechanisms of the state - that we have good technical dissection, compression and landfilling. Also - and this is important - the intermediate cell can also welcome part of the packed waste of ten thousand pieces. Thus, the ministerial decision was adopted. I told you the story. What did they say by the management body themselves? We didn't go to make a ministerial decision, so because we woke up one day. So, in order to have a conclusion to what I am saying - and the rest in my dentistry - our priority, like the Agency, of course, was to ensure public health. In addition, I would like to say that, with the revision of the Regional Waste Management Plan of the Ionian Islands, there will also be additional conditions and concrete actions and measures to promote recycling and reduce landfilling. We do not want to bury waste, we want to see a sustainability and a circular movement of waste, so that it is also the PVO of the Ionian Islands, but also all the other areas of Greece fully harmonised and in balance with the National Waste Management Plan 2020-2030 - I am ending, Mr President - and the integrated institutional framework for waste management adopted by No 4819/2021. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u78	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, the Minister said something unthinkable. He accused me of having a lack of understanding of written and oral words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u80	Did you see? Even that you're distorting! But I didn't say that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u81	If I had it, it would be an honor, Minister, it would be an honor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u82	All right, don't have a dialogue now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u83	But I didn't say that! All right, all right! I said the opposite!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u84	You take care of people...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u85	The Minutes have been written, so there is no question of dispute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u86	Do you know people who are disabled? Do you know people who are disabled? If I had a problem understanding written and oral speech, it would be an honor. You should be ashamed and withdraw what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u87	Okay. It did not, however, give the interpretation you give and did not contaminate people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u88	It's all right. He said, "I imagine you have no problem, too." What category is I supposed to belong to?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u89	Okay. Reading the Minutes will draw the conclusion. Go on, Mr Arseni.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u90	But, despite the Minister's theater, he cannot hide that he did not answer the question. Where are the elements of EDNA? While he tells us that measurements are made, he admitted that there are no particle counts made by the official stations of the state anywhere near the Gypsy, nowhere in West Athens, nowhere in the Gymnasium itself, nor micro particles that can tell us what is happening with the fires of the waste or dioxins. He's reporting to us measurements that aren't detected, they're not public. Why aren't they public for? Because all this is convenient, if any. It also tells us that in Templelon, since the waste management authority asks for all these unorthodox - illegally, in my opinion - the administration will obviously approve them, and the Minister will obviously make a ministerial decision approving them. Are you serious? Anyone asking you to approve something? Is that your view of public administration? We invite you to withdraw the decision, to explain to us what is going to happen with the mixtures that are on the ground, to explain to us how you legalise the excesses, the condensations, what will happen to the bakery that they drip, what will happen with all the pigs that are currently running on the waterfront and nobody stops them. Today they should stop. Today we should have another management, not sometime. Tell us what's going on with the northern Corfu transhipment station next to residences, people suffering, literally leaving their homes. It's not a theater. I've visited them. I've talked to people. It's not an exaggeration. Go see them and tell them "that's what the waste management has asked us to do." Tell that to these people. You are withdrawing this criminal decision, the legalisation of environmental crimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u91	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that, in implementation of Parliament's decision of 12 November 2021, a 20-member committee of inquiry has been set up to investigate the public-management policy operation, the achievement of the institutions and the destruction of public money, in accordance with Articles 68(2)(c) of the Constitution and 144(5)(b) of the Rules of Procedure of the House. The decision will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and will be notified to the Members mentioned and to the honourable Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u92	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Arsenis, you have again distorted my words and confirmed me in relation to what I said in my prototype. You corrupted exactly what I said. What was I talking about? In your alleged inability to understand a text or an oral word. Do you not know that there are the OECD educational programmes, the PISA, which faces and puts three cognitive objects as research into school pupils from all modern western countries to see what is the understanding of the text and what is the understanding of the speech? You don't even know that? And why are you constantly distorting my words? It's a shame you're going to hide behind people with disabilities. Shame on you. So ask you to get back what you said. You don't insult me. You offend people with disabilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u94	We're moving on. The subject is solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u95	I will say this: you tell us to take the ministerial decision back. Templon's HYTA thanks to this ministerial decision entered a new era, Mr. Comrade. We don't do either random or fragmentary interventions. In fact, you also referred to the draft 'Democritus'. You're telling your question. This project that I developed just before, the Ionian Islands Region, you know that? Do you know that cooperation is taking place with the "Presidency"? So, tell me, then. Invite "Demokritos" half and omit the effective involvement of "Demokritos" in this action plan which serves ministerial decision. So what do you want? You don't even know what you want. With the measurements of the "Democritus", which we trust, and which is why we often work with the Ministry of the Environment on a permanent and regular basis, we will have a full picture of the environmental stress of the area. So we are preparing a comprehensive plan for environmental data recording within a five-km radius of HYTA Templon. PHISA and the region are making progress in implementing this ministerial decision, respecting all legal procedures with content and substance to see whether there is an environmental burden within a five-km radius and not in the thirty-mile radius that you have told us and to see if there are problems, how we will resolve them quickly. We and the people's quality of life want to upgrade and the environmental issue to resolve. In relation to the placement of the waste transhipment station of the municipality of South Corfu, which is located in the vicinity of Templelon, I will again tell you that all relevant issues of waste disposal and waste management are moving and following Union and national legislation. They do not become 'in the air'. Do you want to or do you not want to comply with the legislation? One thing you say is that we do not comply with the legislation and then you say 'don't do that because we don't want it because we don't like it'. Anyway. We have proved as a government that we are at all times ready for dialogue with the citizens, with the actors, with the region, with civil society, so that this shame we inherited, inherited by the previous many sins of recent years, will end. We will resolve these issues as well. Please be very careful when you distort my words. I won't allow you to do that. You do it all the time. That's enough. Mercy. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Undersecretary, that's all. The fourth question, No. 179/15-11-2021, will be discussed in the fourth cycle of MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis, Minister for Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The workers at the National Museum of Contemporary Art". Mr Nicholas Yatronanollakis will reply to the current question by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. As you said, we are currently bringing to Parliament the problems faced by workers at the National Museum of Contemporary Art. First of all, one of the serious issues is the undermining of this museum, namely the lack of staff, which raises very serious issues even for its fundamental function, Minister. Is it not, as you know - and you know - technical and scientific staff, and when do we have this shortage? Today, when the social need is growing - because we regard it as a social need we regard it as a culture - and so we also need the requirement to upgrade the role of this museum - the National Museum of Contemporary Art - in terms of producing and carrying out reports and promoting its cultural creation in general as a museum in this direction. The second issue that concerns workers is the issue of the benefit of heavy and unhealthy work. We consider it unacceptable that the employees of the museum should be excluded from the payment of this allowance, which, of course, does not only apply to them - to be honest - but also to a large number of workers and other bodies supervised by the Ministry of Culture and Legal Affairs. Finally, in our view, it is an attack - and indeed a flagrant attack - on the rights of the workers of the museum, the fact of replacing the heads of the subdirections of the museum departments by artistic advisers appointed by your Ministry. With this tactic of the government, Mr President, there is, of course, an omission of the scientific staff who are in existence and who are being neglected, a skilled staff, a staff with very long and long experience, and of course this political decision, which was taken by tabling an amendment just last June, this decision, namely the appointment of these artistic consultants, will have a very direct negative impact on the very operation and quality of the museum. So we ask you, Minister, and the questions are on the basis of the problems: what are you going to do to recruit permanent staff and not with flexible labour relations? What are you going to do to give workers a heavy and unhealthy work allowance? What are you going to do to replace, withdraw the artistic advisers and establish by the service method and procedure the responsible, the heads, anyway, of the departments of the Museum of Contemporary Art? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u98	Mr. Doctor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Delis, for this question, because it really gives us the opportunity for the first time to talk essentially about all the work that has been done lately in the National Museum of Contemporary Art and, indeed, believe me, we have nothing to hide. On the other hand, we are the government which has done most for both the workers and the museum itself. And I explain: The National Museum of Contemporary Art is a museum that, unfortunately, we know for twenty years, did not function properly. What do I mean normally? It did not function daily for the public, which is a key role of a museum, organizing some magazine exhibitions, had not carried out its museum installation, studying for its permanent collection, and had not acquired basic and basic infrastructure from things such as, for example, marking, up to technological infrastructure, which was necessary for its proper operation. So within seven months, from August 2019 to February 2020 shortly before the beginning of the pandemic, all these structural issues had been resolved. And that's not something that just happened, it didn't come up, it was something that was done through a very systematic work and cooperation with the workers of the National Museum of Contemporary Art. I think we agree that a museum's primary role is to be open and attributed to citizens, to be able to visit it, to be able to exploit its services. That is our role, and that was our aim, and that is what we did. We didn't treat it as a magazine hosting area. Another is an exhibition area, another museum, with other functions and other structure. We also wanted it to be sustainable and functional, which was not provided for until then. We owe this to both artists and to the country and to workers and, of course, to the public. So that was the one thing we had. The other interesting thing was that it was supposed that before a friend to the culture of the current government, the one of SYRIZA, which, then, had done for the museum? He had done a failed process of assigning director, a fiasco, and he actually canceled this whole thing. The other thing he had done was that he risked losing a very important sponsorship for the museum because of the delay. Here, then, we have managed to put a framework in which we currently not only have an artistic director - and not anyone else, but we have a very important woman from the arts world, Katerina Gregos, a transfer from abroad that has been recognised in Greece and worldwide from those instruments - but we have taken care, as we have already said, of, and at the moment, not only has it been designed and planned but there is also the position of the financial director. In other words, we built the administrative pyramid as the National Museum of Contemporary Art should have it. In this context it began to work. In the meantime, of course, we have to say that pandemic broke through, which went back to the museum's operation for the reasons we know as it happened in all museums around the world. This has not prevented us from continuing his institutional care. And now to go to your issues, and I'll tell the rest in my dentistry. It is not true, first of all, that it is completely inaccurate that we are talking about any replacements. Putting counsellors is an international practice that others follow, the Athens and Epidaurus Festival, for example, where no one is replaced, does not play a role as director, division or anything that is complementary, so that the artistic director can perform his role. Also, in the heavy and unhealthy part you say, they have never been excluded, because they have never been in the process. There has been no procedure as foreseen by the Ministry of Labour. I remind you this is at the Ministry of Labour. This has never been done, nor has medical advice and studies, as provided for in this procedure, have been presented in order to achieve this. So that's not the way it is. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] We are also not the ones who are preventing EMST from being staffed. On the contrary, in 2020, an exceptional request was accepted for nine additional employees of permanent, regular staff at the museum and this year for one more. Therefore, ten more people in a museum of about eighty eighteen seats. So we're talking about an important percentage. Where exactly does it look like we're blocking it? We have been able to manage the museum in an exceptional manner and in consultation with the Ministry of Interior. He also participated in mobility. I'm stopping here for now, and we're continuing on secondary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u100	Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. The fact that the National Museum of Contemporary Art, Minister, did not normally work for too many years, certainly so. Only that is a direct confession of the responsibility that all previous governments had and don't tell us about SYRIZA here. And SYRIZA also has its responsibilities, of course, KINAL - PASOK at that time - and the New Democracy with its previous government mandate for the actual functioning of this museum. Now let me get them in turn. You said that the Museum of Contemporary Art was served. Workers themselves with official notices say that a third of the museum's organic positions remain vacant and we think that the workers know something to say. What's going on now? What is the government doing? It attempts to make use of these vacancies - and they are being exploited - not to become permanent appointments, not to hire staff, but to extend flexible working relationships even to contract workers. This has been done and the private company has undertaken to cover gaps - please - organic positions in ticket publishing and in the museum shop. If that's what you think is right, I'm sorry, we have a completely different view. And, indeed, this was done without a competition and a direct award. Finally, the majority on this issue of the museum's board of directors, through an urban non-profit company it has set up, also proceeds to other direct assignments to workshops and to companies that rent and rent from now on other employees to meet the constant needs of the museum. For heavy and unhealthy, the allowance, you said it was a matter of the Ministry of Labour. Of course it is. But you also take part, Minister, in government responsibility for the overall government policy. You're not only responsible for the Ministry of Culture. Since you have been involved in a Ministerial Council, you have also been responsible. It is therefore not a matter that only concerns the Ministry of Labour. It concerns the government as a whole, and this is a mockery that continues with this notorious allowance for heavy and unhealthy work. For the appointed advisors of the artistic director, look, do not stand in the word "replace". It is better to call it 'parallelism'. So the museum's service actors are being overturned, people who are very well aware of the museum's space, its capabilities and are instead appointed four - five artistic consultants next to the artistic director. In our view, this is done in an orderly manner, so that the government can increase its manipulation capacity - as I say to you - in the museum and in terms of staff, as well as in terms of the general policy of the museum and, of course, in order to strike the fighting attitudes of the workers - and their rightfulness - in order to claim what they are entitled to. I would like to remind you, Minister, that you are surely aware of it - since the 1997 Constitutional Law, in which the National Museum of Contemporary Art was established, five flagship key amendments have been passed by all governments successively. And by PASOK, 2001, and by New Democracy, 2008, and by SYRIZA, in 2017, and by the current Government of New Democracy, 2020 and 2021. All five amendments do nothing but adapt this museum - and that is why we say that your policy keeps up, all governments - I repeat, the Museum of Contemporary Art, even more to needs, to the needs of the market, to increase, as they say, its business capacity to sell cultural products. Excuse me very much, but we have a completely different view of the role of museums and about this, the Museum of Contemporary Art, which we consider, however, to be a very worthwhile museum that could promote contemporary cultural creation free of charge to the people, Minister, and not in a commercial way, which could develop activities such as educational programmes and scientific publications and support the artistic work of all artists, not just those who have been on the market. You have another perception. Here, of course, we have two different things, which cannot of course meet. That is why it is very important for the workers themselves - and for the museum as well as for them to complete their understanding of the policy pursued by either your government, the Ministry of Culture or the Ministry of Labour - a common thread connects this policy - to fight it collectively and organizedly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u102	And the Deputy Minister of Culture, Mr. Drotroninollakis, will close the present parliamentary procedure. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delis, I am a little opposed to the content of the museum and the collection. Besides, she has an artistic director, and I think she knows better than you and me how to set up this collection. From there on, I hope you have visited it, because, if you have visited it, you will know that what you are saying is not true, that it actually raises what the market demands. I don't know exactly what the market wants. In any case, let's go a little bit to what I can really answer. One is the piece for heavy and unhealthy. I am telling you, at the moment, in this treaty, with this data, the workers of a museum are asking for heavy and unhealthy. That is what a Committee on Health does. It's not me or you again. It is a Health Committee, which is at the Ministry of Labour. That's the process. What can we do? Second, I'm going to what you said about the consultants of the artistic director. The counsellors of the only person have the responsibilities - if you like - they are the artistic director himself. He's no other worker in the museum. No one else. So that is not the case. Fortunately you corrected yourself the unfortunate word "replace", which was completely out...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u104	We have said that there is a smuggling situation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u105	You said "replacement" and I have it here written in your question. I'm sorry! Well, and now we go to the other parts: on staff recruitment, I have here - and I will be happy to present them to you and to the House - I have the request to place the EMFF positions to the Ministry of the Interior: 'Recruitment planning cycle'. The procedure is specific. The procedure is set. It comes from the institution, the body asks for positions, hierarchies the positions it demands, this is a request submitted to the Ministry of the Interior, and in particular to the piece that looks at the human resources, on the basis of the country's financial framework, there is a hierarchy and assessment of needs and we are moving forward. I am also telling you - and I have already told you in my prototype, and now I am telling you - that ten posts have already been added to this Government in the museum. Ten! It also participated in the first mobility and second mobility. Verheugen - I have the papers here last year - received sixty-eight applications in connection with the first mobility. The good thing is, to say the good news, that EMS is one of the few bodies that we inherited by rules of operation. Hence, he can enter mobility and he can do recruitment. The union says that this regulation needs to be changed. Maybe in some places they're right. But could it change and do everything they say if there was no artistic director, if there was no management, and if the museum did not allow it to function for a while and see its real needs? It is the first time, for twenty years, Mr Delis - and at first because of the weakness of the museum itself and the governments and then because of the pandemic - that the museum has been operating properly and we know what is walking and what is not walking. Should these conclusions now not be included in any design to be a museum sustainable and effective? I agree with you that he must have educational programmes. He's doing training programs. But shouldn't his audience know? All this now needs to be done and now it can be done, because now the museum is operating for the first time. So I am convinced that both with the support of the Ministry and with the government's overall support, but also with the Council's support at the moment. has the museum and artistic director for the first time and for the first time, for all these issues will be dealt with in the best possible way for the good of the Greek citizens for whom this museum exists, because only for them is there. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr. Doctor. Before we conclude today's procedure, ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stagios, present and the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Doulakakis, will submit the State Budget for the financial year 2022.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have the particular honour of presenting to the House the state budget for the financial year 2022 and its draft report. I also present a report on tax expenditure, reports by the Directors-General of the General Accounting Office of the State, tax administration, customs and excise duties, public property and public benefits of the Ministry of Finance, the annual audit report of the Directorate-General for Financial Control of the General Accounting Office of the State, as well as the declarations provided for in Article 58 of Law 4270/2014, as applicable. I also inform the House that the statement by the State budget for the financial year 2022 is accompanied by a special version of the budget for the financial year 2022. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, submits to the President of the Parliament the above mentioned in the form of a stick (digital storage instrument)]] Mr President, I would ask you to set dates for the state budget debate in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs and in the plenary session of this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u108	Ladies and gentlemen, I have just received the 2022 budget in modern technology, and I have to tell you that it has an amazing picture of the General Accounting Office building of the State in this way. It is a building, Minister, which was built during the Middle War by Emmanuel Lazarides, a great architect from Constantinople, and is considered an element of Athenian modernisation, this building with its strange brown color toward Athenian trilogy. It is a great building with its famous door, which has elements of a decoy, with scenes and edges on its face, a very interesting building in an area where it used to be the famous Gambette cafe, which was considered a kind of small parliament where Konstantinos Karamanlis used to be pre-war. This building is also relevant to the House, because Lazarides was also the architect who formed the front of the House in the sense that he created the Hero of the Unknown Soldier. He was the same architect. So since we say these too, let me inform you that the debate on the state budget in the relevant Standing Committee on Economic Affairs will take place at four consecutive meetings, on 23 to 26 November, after consultation with the Bureau of the Commission. Then the debate in plenary will begin on 14 December 2021, in accordance with Rule 123(1) of our Rules of Procedure, and will end on 18 December 2021 by 12 o'clock at midnight. I would like to make a statement to this House. The Ministers for Development and Investment, Finance, Foreign Affairs, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State Ministers, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Interior, and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on November 19, 2021: “State investments and improvement of the investment environment through speeding up procedures in private and strategic investment and the creation of a framework for companies of technocrats”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate is closed and there will be a short break before we enter the agenda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u109	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are entering the agenda for the INQUIRY Question No 1/8-10-2021 will be debated by Members of the Radical Left coalition Group, and by Members of this House. Alexiou Tsipras, Theodorou Dritsa, Georgios Tsipras, Dimitrios Vitsa, Olga Gerovasili, Eleftherios Avramakis, Irene - Helen Agathopoulos, Athanasios (Nashu) Athanasios, Tryphoon Alexiadis, Ioannis Amanatidis, Athanasias, Athanasias, Evangelos Apostolos, Stavrou Arahovitis, Theos (Doras), Alexandros - Christos Achoglou, Annanos, Vassilios Vasiliou, Nicosia - Kaleidnis, Socrates, Georgiou Karyosanisssi (Valonis), Ioannissos, Ioannis Kloumanissos, Ioannisoulisos, Ioannis, Ioannisanisos, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis Kolooudis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannisoulisilisilisilisilisilis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis, Ioannis. The speech is the first questioner, MP B2' West Athens coalition of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas for 10 minutes. Mr. Vitsa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u110	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by expressing our wishes for a rapid return to the pilot of the F-16 fighter after the accident in Andravid yesterday. All the information and the telephone conversation that, as far as I know, you had with him, it shows that, following the protocols, our pilot will be in a combat state. Of course, the accident is that we lost a F-16, but that is the least in relation to the fact that we saved human life and, indeed, a human life that counts. We should now come to our point. On 21 December 2020, the Committee on Military Programmes presented the theme of the establishment of an International Training Centre for Flying Fighting Air Forces in Kalamata. Then the conversation had two legs: First, do we need such a training centre? The agreement was absolute in many respects of Parliament: we need it. After all, we have had such a training centre since about 1960, and Kalamata at this point since the early 1970s, that is, fifty years. Secondly, what problems have we had all this time, especially because of the memorials, but also because of the fact that the planes are growing old, that there was no follow-on support, there was a shortage of material, flying media, that is, with the result that the years 2014, 2015, 2016, mainly being lost hours of training? The calculations tell us that in these three years eight thousand hours of training was lost. The practical result was to delay the entry of the flying two to three years into the respective units of the Air Force. This was, as is well known, taken into consideration by the Supreme Air Council as early as 2017. There were two distinct proposals in the debate. One was your proposal to go to this international centre with a financial leasing agreement with Israel of 1.375 000 for twenty years. And the proposal from our own, which said that the Air Force has the ability, in so far as it will proceed in various ways, to rent jet jets, i.e. planes - not to go into technical terms - and to repair 20 T-6, i.e. landlords, has the know-how, has the people. After all, I would remind you that right now - I hope, I say this from where I left it - five Greek trainers are located in the United States of America, not only to train even more, but to train even more. And at least when I left it, they were paid by the United States of America and there was a pretty good amount left for our Air Force. And with transnational agreements we have trainers in Italy and elsewhere. Differences were too great in relation to money. Your proposal was 1,355,000 for twenty years. Our calculations did not exceed 700,000,000 for twenty years. Of course, in both proposals there were not a number of things, such as fuel, Greek wages, which, if you add them, raise the amount. This was until 21 December 2000. In four months' time, in April 2021, despite the fact that we have repeatedly called for the Convention, before you signed it, to be signed, in the House's Committee on Military Programs for Consultation - you thought the previous majority decision was sufficient - and we learn that the contract has been signed by the then Governor of the Directorate-General for Defence Equipment, Mr Layo, who a few days later changed from Alexopoulos and was transferred to a position in Belgium, if I am not mistaken. And I think I'm not mistaken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u111	(Not heard.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u112	That's where he's going. The total amount now in your own proposal - always keep the cost of our proposal - has risen to 1,850,000, 000, plus the other costs and the indexation, which we shall be talking about. Because it is in many questions the way in which indexation was calculated. What do I mean, to be clean. If you see the differences, we're talking about a 3% difference. One must have calculated 3% of indexation, when at present throughout Europe in 20 years' time the'standard' does not exceed 2%. If we issue a 20-year bond right now, the interest rate can't be more than 2%. I say, anyway, that it was the case that it appears from the General Accounting Office of the State - because that is where we have the information, you did not give it to us, the Ministry of National Defence did not give it to us - this amount was requested and approved. There's a first problem coming up. You do not have the opinion of the Committee on Equipment anymore. Why, even as we said then, and even with our disagreement - which was not just our disagreement, was there almost all of the opposition parties, if I remember correctly - you signed a contract that - what can I say? - he's a letonite for the other side. And, in my opinion, you insult our Air Force when you say that another air force - I do not question it - has know-how, has competences and everything else. But the same know-how, the same skills, the same experienced executives have our Air Force. And it is well known that Greek fighters are among the first and second positions worldwide or if you want - because some countries are not mitigating - between NATO countries. So that's what you're calling on you to answer. Because of the existence of this situation, Minister, political responsibilities arise. But the question is that there may be responsibilities beyond the policies. That is why I say that today's debate - I am trying to keep my time for dentistry - is not the end of this process. It's probably the beginning of this process. We'll prove this to you at the locations of SYRIZA's next colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The floor is now given by Mr. Dritsas, MP for the 1st Piraeus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u114	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the text of our current question contains many details and raises very specific questions. It was tabled a few months ago, it is now being discussed and discussed in the Committee on Equipment and Conventions. But the procedures in this committee are correctly covered by the rule of secrecy. That's where the Minister told us that there's no problem. And yet, Minister,'something is happening here, something secret'. That's why the poet Dionysius Savvopoulos didn't say it, but this is where it fits. In fact, if you look at the details and the facts and the facts, you can tell. I'm going to stay on the very basics. We have a worthy Air Force, with trained pilots recognised worldwide for their high education and adequacy, and we have gaps in the process of rapid training. That's what Dimitris Vitsats mentioned before. We have a traditional area that operates in Kalamata sufficient, with a runway and take-off, with facilities, which can indeed be upgraded not only in buildings, but also with all structures at a cost not too high. And we have educational aircraft which are obscured and which the Greek State, the Ministry of National Defence, can indeed initiate a process of purchasing young people, repairing and upgrading those from the old in-services can survive and have time to live, even to acquire, as is many years planned and agreed, an International Aviation Education Center in Kalamata, at a cost according to a study by the Staff and Headquarters in 2017, which does not exceed 760 million to 800 million, including the calculation of the remuneration of Air Force officials - which they exist anyway, while the new contract is not certain that it includes it, they remain in the state budget - and fuels. Let us say that the calculations were not too precise and that they could be 1 billion. They then came through the mobility of the Ministry of National Defence companies from various countries and submitted proposals which resulted in a cost of about 1,200,000,000 in 20 years' time. There they all converge, if you wanted to choose for speed reasons, because 'we can't wait any longer'. That is not what the current government is using. At some point she brings her proposal, which reaches 1,400,000,000 in 20 years' time. And while it receives the assent by a majority only by the government majority of the Committee on Programmes and Conventions, after four months it announces the final agreement, which in four months has been launched by some 400 million and reaches 180 000, 000 in twenty years' time. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, there is the argument for indexation. They're inadequate. The Committee on Military Programmes and Conventions on Costs has not approved, it has delivered a favourable opinion either against a government majority. The procedure is void and the government is not entitled to proceed. Although the more moderate calculations are increasing the cost to two years in depth. 800,000. Why can this happen and be tolerated? Beyond the lack of the Ministry of National Defence, the Armed Forces Headquarters, the Air Forces, the ability to control everything, to have full self-sufficiency and we can afford it at a much lower cost and have the ability to attract - as is tradition - many other countries and to have a return and added value and economic value beyond international relations, the development of friendship and cooperation with many countries in this respect, we are deporting it and giving it to Israel and to a private, semi-stated things! - an Israeli company, to benefit from know-how, to benefit from international relations and at a high cost. Is that a scandal or isn't it? It is also irresponsible, an irresponsible, unprecedented and development-related, and it is a lack of respect for the Air Force. That is the point of our own intervention. That is why Alexis Tsipras is leading, because it is a crucial issue and it is not of minor importance. I'm done because I don't have any more time. I want to keep time for my dentistry as well. There is no provision for maintaining these aircraft that the Israelis will rent us with leasing in EAW or anywhere else, there are not too many issues. Finally, this agreement cannot finally come to the Greek Parliament. It's one more reason for nullity. You have no right to implement this agreement. Cancel her, freeze her. Follow the procedures and bring it to the House for approval, where we will see all the details that will be very essential for a decision very serious about the future of Greek aviation and the training of pilots. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u115	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr. Tsipras, Member of the West Attica, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today an issue that is the most scandalous, economically, choice of the Ministry of National Defence, the agreement on the International Air Education Centre in Kalamata. The first thing I want to call on the Minister is to bring the contract to the House. To bring it twice, since 1,355 billion of which the committee was informed, took a hat about 500 million and became 1,850 and for which no one has been informed. Until you put it to the vote, all parties to the House must be informed, even under the confidentiality procedure, of the so-called 'quantitative adjustment' issue. And I'm actually coming. You say again, Minister, there was a problem. No one disagrees there was a problem. No one has. You know that efforts have been made before, in order to resolve the problem. It is a process that you know takes time, because it has to weigh the economic element, the element of international geopolitical relations and the security element in extremely difficult conditions. As soon as yesterday he responded to the committee responsible for something other, very small cost, it doesn't matter that the reason why it was not in 2019, which you took over, and which was in 2021, is why we had a smaller defensive budget. We're much worse, much worse in our own years. The problem, therefore, appeared many years ago, not in our own years, and in this respect there must be a greater modesty when we talk about what we did and what we did not. In our criticism, therefore, that there is a smell of scandal and that you have chosen a scandalous solution, you insist that the problem has to be solved. It's the right answer to the wrong question. No one realizes that a solution has to be found, but you are choosing a solution that is at least problematic. You said, in reply to Alexis Tsipras in the Greek debate, that the claim that we also had our own proposal, that is to say, for a domestic solution to the problem, tabled by the Air Force and not used it is completely untrue. We know very well that untrue is rather what you are saying. Let's assume that's the way it is. You yourself said in the same debate that there was a theoretical search in the Air Force, but that was never reflected in a proposal. There's a simple question: You were Minister at the time, why didn't you ask for a study? Is that such a minor matter? Is it so little that it was not worth studying, or would it take a lot of time, when there was even a study? Let us see the answer you give in this regard, just in February 2021: 'The need', you say, 'had been established early on. In order to refer very briefly to history, by the decision of 1 November 2017 to the General Staff Board.’. First of all, I would like to explain to those who do not know that it is not early because the problem existed many years ago. Apparently it's early for the SYRIZA government. You yourself say that we started to find a solution to the problem, for which the SAA has approved a study, to complete the sub-programme for the establishment of an international training centre. This was said in February 2021. So, after all of these, you chose an extremely costly solution at the expense of the Greek State, a solution that by our means would not only leave the aviation centre under national control, not only would the new training aircraft remain in our own property and not leasing, not only would it leave more facilities to attract foreign pilots from countries that probably do not maintain the best relations with Israel, not only do you choose a company that has not certified NATO - this is probably not in any other country of the world, a contract with a company that does not have NATO, when our Air Force and pilots certified NATO - so not just all of this, but the initial cost estimate, about 1,375 billion is about double the amount of one in house, one of the guilty solution and on this approximately twice the amount of the so-called "qualification". One - one, you yourself said - this year - that: 'In the upper commercial contract in 2020, the formulation of the above operational and technical training requirements was approved for the aviation centre, 'taking into account the current situation in the training of young flying people', which is the problem that we are discussing. "In addition, there was also a case of supplying a new training jet from us, in house, for the installation of T-2, which was rejected as not profitable." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, please have a minute's tolerance. Why 'non-interested', Minister? Do you know the cost of obtaining such ships? It seems that your cost is only to you for the domestic solution to be rejected, and it probably has nothing to do with the technical and operational solutions you have chosen. On 18 December, LEONARDO's communication refers to four additional aircraft of the same type that was given to Poland next to the other 12 already owned by Poland. And the company says in English: "This call is estimated at EUR 130 million, including not only the four aircraft, a support package, but also the upgrade of the remaining 12 346." Do remove the upgrade of the balances from 130- to less than 100- and divide by four. This is well known to be the cost of acquiring aircraft, about 260 million ten. What do we do? We give ELBIT 600 million for the first three years, to buy aircraft and everything else that has fixed costs, to set up the centre, and then give us leasing in a 20-year horizon with 1.850 years. And so we come to the big scandal. The small - let us say small - scandal is that we are not making our own solution, which we can do, and there is a double of costs together with all the other negative consequences. But the big scandal, completely unjustified, is the launch due to indexation of about 500 million. How did that happen? What bright brain thought of such monstrous indexation and what officials, servants and politicians could sign them? As far as the provision of indexation in the contract is concerned, there is common practice internationally by companies, states, etc. a clause, which we come every five years, say, and see what the index of consumer prices was and there is the adjustment. This is the most classic and common practice. You have chosen something very rare anyway, namely the expression in the present value of future indexation. But even so, from the figures - because the only figures we have from the contract are from the Ministry of Finance decisions - an average Timarith is calculated over a 20-year period of 3.4%. How did that get out? Bring us the contract to make sure. How did that get out? The European Central Bank's policy strategy has a ceiling of 2%. To tell you information today about 2020 was 0.51%, not 2%, not 1.5%, but 0.51%. In 2022, 1.7% is predicted for 2023 and 1.5% for 2022. In very simple terms, if any companies in the European Union, in the Eurozone, or in the company and state enter into a contract, they will either set a indexation clause every three or five years or calculate an average of less than 2%. Otherwise, you may have another monetary policy, different from the European Central Bank, which is absurd. To say this with even simpler words, if today we have issued a bond to borrow 1 billion 375 million, to give it now to ELBIT, and we will pay less than 200 million in 20 years' time. There you have added just three hundred million euros to the indexation. To conclude, therefore, we call on you to cancel the contract, to go to a domestic solution with about half the money from the ECU 1.375 billion. or 1/3 from 1.850 billion, at the same time selecting an interim, temporary, immediate solution to the problem of training Greek air carriers with a lease or something. If you insist on a confession of political incapacity for domestic solutions, in the worst case cancel the 475 million indexation cap and bring us a new contract here in Parliament, based on what is generally the case in the European Union and doing all the others. Otherwise, this will be a scandal without a precedent. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Katrugalos, Member of the Northern Athens Sector, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Madam President. Dear Minister, we have disagreed on your other choices regarding supplies to the Armed Forces. But we haven't talked about a scandal smell. What difference does this case make with others that have expressed our disagreement? You know, ladies and gentlemen, we are very well aware that we are in favour of strengthening the Armed Forces' Integrity, but with provisions which must be planned and in line with the prioritisation of the Armed Forces themselves and within the resilience of the economy. So we have expressed strong criticism, for example, in announcing Mr Mitsotakis from the Step of the International Exhibition of Thessaloniki the purchase of six young Rafalis, without precedenting the respective institutional process within the Armed Forces and within the House. But even if at some point we pay the marble and pay it dearly, these six Rafahs add to the airforce. This is a scandal because you also inflated the account three times and more than our preparation for a solution, but mainly because your choice is worse in quality. He's not adding, but he's deducting from the integrity of the Armed Forces. Why do we say that? First, because our proposal concerned the purchase of T-6 and M-346 aircraft. Yours is leasing. Secondly, and much more importantly, in our proposal, our own Air Force with its increased know-how - I do not think that Israeli aviation is better than ours - would serve, as it has done in the past, the work of training our pilots. This is not just a lack of confidence, which, as one of the previous speakers rightly said, affects the Greek Air Force. There are other issues that we don't get along with. I have heard from an experienced Air Force officer that access to the records of trained pilots, which the Israeli company will have, actually, enables them to know exactly who our pilots are. And anyone who knows the pilots knows the Air Force. Why? Why would we give that to a third power, even if it is friendly? Let me not hear the argument that this is being done in the context of geostrategic cooperation with Israel. She is useful, and we served her on the basis of reciprocity. And that is the magic word, which you have forgotten in other circumstances, for example, in the US bases: reciprocity. It is not even purchased in excellent terms, such as those mentioned above, geostrategic cooperation. Because, Minister, I have heard in the past - and in our personal discussions in the House - say that all we are now in theory and there was no such study in Greek Air Force, I would like to ask you to ask the Chief of Aviation whether, on 23-8-2017, he was the rapporteur at the Supreme Air Council for this study which we invoke and which provided for operating costs of 15 to 18 million per year, which ends in three times as much as the one you want to charge now on the backs of the Greek people. I do not think he will question the word of a man who is a senior officer and you have honoured him with this critical position of Deputy Minister. I want a comment from you, because it is one of the things you have personally answered that there was no similar study. Finally, why don't you bring the contract to the Procurement Committee? Doesn't that seem guilty? Doesn't he support our claim of a scandal smell? And I'll take you one step further. If this convention is not ratified by Parliament, it has serious problems of nullity. Are you ready to jeopardise our transnational relations with such a contract, which will not produce legal results? And I do not hear the argument that the existence of an transnational agreement with Israel also covers any of the following. Have you, in other words, received a white check to bring any commission you want from Israel without informing and approving the House? These, obviously, do not apply. Dear Minister, ladies and gentlemen, on the issues of the worthy of the Armed Forces no one should try to score party points. Our effort should be to strengthen the credibility of the Armed Forces. But where there is a scandal smell, as in this case, this joint effort is being undermined and you have a heavy responsibility for your actions and your handling. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Haritsis, Member of the Messinia, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Madam President, I shall use my dentistry as well. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that my fellow Members from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - a Progressive Alliance that preceded them have analysed very well, because we have here the case of a very serious case, which the government unfortunately manages on scandalous terms. Especially will you allow me to begin with a comment on the financial aspect. You heard that earlier. At some point, however, you must explain to us exactly what this regulatory adjustment of 475 million is going to mean. And you know, because everything needs to be put in a specific context, when exactly is that happening? When exactly are you talking about the EUR 475 million adjustment? In conditions of unprecedented health, social, economic, energy crisis. It is to ask every citizen who is attending this sitting, frankly, if this government has an elementary awareness, elementary contact with what is currently happening in Greek households and Greek businesses. At a time when the citizen and every business are experiencing incredible revaluations - official ELSTAT figures in October, just a month ago -132% increase in gas, 46% increase in heating oil, 23% increase in fuel, 20% increase in electricity, explosive appreciations in basic food products, when all of the country's chambers, the country's trade associations are calling for new support measures to be applied to businesses for the prolongation of the pandemic's debts, for an extension of the repayment period for returnable advances, for support for the focus and for port trade that are still affected by the new measures, while the Minister for Development is responding irresponsibly to the demands of the operators: 'It is time to mature. There's no more money. If a pandemic comes in winter, we have finished financially" - these are the exact words of the Minister of Development a few days ago - in all of this, in such an environment, the government comes and considers it reasonable to implement such a contract, which will be charged to the State with EUR 1,85 billion and, according to the State General Accounting Office, with an advance payment of EUR 600 million. Let someone at least tell the Minister of Development that finally there is money when it is to be given to such cases, they do not exist, when it is to be given to Greek businesses and to Greek households. Obviously, therefore, these issues relating to the economic conditions of this agreement and to the non-transparent management on the part of the government of such a serious matter with national implications are the major issues. These are the major issues which must concern us, and that is why the positions of the previous Members and those who follow are focused on them. But you will allow me also to give a different parameter, if you wish, concerning some issues of a local nature and the questions that concern the Messinian citizens about a matter which, of course, concerns them, but which, unfortunately, this undercover management has left them in the dark. Issues related to possible implications that this process of upgrading the training centre may have in relation to the environment, in relation to noise pollution and, of course, to the operation of the neighbouring political airport: "Captainan Vassilis Konstantakopoulos" in Kalamata. I would remind you, Minister, that the city's airport is one of the fastest growing airports in the country right now. Within the crisis of the last decade he managed to multiply his movement from four hundred ninety-four flights in 2009 to two thousand four hundred flights in 2019. In this difficult decade we had five times the number of flights. It is the main development arm of the region and, of course, I cannot fail to point out the fact that two and a half years of governance of the New Democracy and despite the Prime Minister's own announcements on his visit to the area to speed up airport upgrading processes during his visit to Kalamata in 2019, all the necessary upgrading projects have unfortunately been frozen. This is therefore a very crucial issue for local society and a meeting of the Kalamata City Council took place in January 2021 and I parliamentaryally took place on this matter. I had tabled a question to you since 13 July 2020 a year and a half ago on this matter. Unfortunately, there has never been a very serious, official and documented response to what this specific military airport upgrade agreement means to the civilian airport. Also, it will be interesting, Minister, to be informed by your ministry of what is missing in the firing field of Shiza Island and whether with the operation of the flight training centre there are thoughts of its reopening. I would remind you that this field of firing has been deactivated in recent years, at least in relation to the exercises with real fire, following intense reactions and residents' mobilisation and the self-government of neighbouring and important tourist areas in Messinia, I am talking about the areas of Methone, Finikounda, the Koron. They are some of the concerns I have raised, Minister, which concerns the citizens of the region, the citizens of Messinia, and I think that they need concrete answers from the government, which had already been informed by the local community, to have consulted with her in a seriously coordinated and formal manner and not to initiate such matters in secret and, if you like, I think that it also affects the citizens that the only information we have had is from selective leaks in the press. I think that is something that also affects the government, but also the local society. But what, in my opinion, is of the greatest importance, Mr Minister, is that it was said earlier by my colleagues - there was another way. The government of SYRIZA, responding precisely to the real need to modernise the training of our pilots and hence to upgrade the centre - no one objected to it - provided for the development of the centre since 2018, with the purchase of modern training planes and simulators and the repair and upgrading of existing training aircraft, using the same forces, with the leading role of our Hellenic Air Force, with a project that would ultimately become the Centre for Education of Kalamata modern and competitive, with open procedures and transparent, with the local society present. This is precisely the case, Minister, and our different concept of what the protection of the public interest means. This is our different concept in relation to the current government as to what it means to respect Greek taxpayers' money. This is our different concept of what it means to involve local societies in the cases that concern them and affect them in their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u121	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Pulou, Member of the European Parliament, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, at the same time as society is lying in the deadlock of the dual health and economic crisis, your government is throwing you away from one scandal to another at ultrasound speeds, I would say, which would be jealous of a Raphala. Within the almost twenty-eight months of your administration, you have shown that you produce more scandals than you can consume. Where to start? The pandemic of direct awards has scanned every sense of transparency and protection of the public interest. The examples are so many, all of which correspond to the sum of more than two billion. Government bodies are literally struggling for the first. The Ministry of Immigration and Asylum, the ELTA, the Blue Command Hospitals, the General Secretariat of Anti-Criminal Policy with the champion of the awards of Mr Nicholas. The Ministry of Labour with Tragedy Teletraining, the Petsa List, the Ministries of Education and Digital Governance with the misappropriation and marketing of personal data by CISCO, and let me confine myself to them, by closing, with the ETAD and the recent disclosure of the scandalous concessions of the Parnassos ski resort in Boeotia. Of course, always, in state-owned times all this. A lot of scandals, gentlemen of the government, and unfortunately, the list has no end. Minister, with the sole responsibility of your Government, the virus of mismanagement and destruction of public money, opacity and scandals that cause the Greek people has now insulted the critical field of national defence. As all SYRIZA Members - Progressive Alliance in their place have pointed out in detail, many are the questions raised by the transnational agreement on the International Training Centre. Many gray points are in yet another very expensive direct assignment, this time by the Prime Minister himself, who does not offer any economic benefit to the Greek public. For once again, Mr Minister, infrastructural and know-how without any substantial involvement of the Greek Defence Industry, without any specified paid work for it. The non-participation of the Greek defence industries in the markets for the strengthening of the Armed Forces, as in the case of the Rafas and the Frequent Belaras, but also in investments such as the projected Kalamata, is unacceptable and inconsistent for the Greek people, because it reflects their systematic reparation that has been promoted for two years, having overturned their important work of strengthening them by the SYRIZA Government. I am referring to ODA, the national champion for defence aeronautical structures that enjoys international reputation, as a fertile colossal partner in the industry, with excellent work of zero failure in peak technologies. The significant contracts secured by the Government of SYRIZA, namely the Greek upgrading programmes of F-16 and P-3, as well as the production of parts of the F-16 and C-130 of the ‘LOCHEED MARTIN’ for the international market, can no longer be implemented. Systemically in the two years of your administration you are condemning EAB on permanent subscribing. You are bringing back the contractors, who had been removed from the SYRIZA government, whose staff are of course trained by ODA engineers. You are struggling with the work and operation of the project and entangled in a vicious circle. Because, without staff and production organisation, the OIP cannot meet its contracts in order to ensure the revenues that would enable it to obtain material and spare parts for the continuation of the production process. As a result, after all this, EAB is to be delayed, to potential fines and toast. It is worth mentioning that for three months now, in 2021, all suppliers, even companies carrying the workers, have been unpaid, because the company had no tax information at all. That's how you realize the country's reproductive reconstruction. You demand public infrastructure, our national wealth and then you sell it to private interests. Also, what exactly is happening with the twelve C-130 that are necessary in our Air Force and remain on the ground? Don't you need them anymore? Instead of hiring the staff needed for their repair and maintenance, you planned to be transferred to Israel and then returned to the EAW for certification. Fortunately, LOCKHEED MARTIN reacted to this scenario because it was, of course, inconsistent and impossible to carry. Is it true, Minister, that the Ministry of Finance, along with the Development and Investment, are discussing with LOCKHEED MARTIN about the concession of the ODA's management? However, you also apply projects to the maintenance of the Super Puma that will be repaired outside Greece, Switzerland, with an initial contract of 100m euros. Already, the first has been transported and repaired there. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These dangerous neoliberal ideas do not allow you to make use of public infrastructure, defence industry, the infrastructure of national importance, that is to say, which can strengthen the Armed Forces of the country and, at the same time, produce added value for the national economy, on the one hand, by exporting and, on the other, by reducing unemployment and, on the other, by the unemployment of our highly trained young scientists. In conclusion, the scandalous agreement on the International Training Center in Kalamata is a typical example of the damage caused to our economy, but also to national defence by the Mitsotakis Government. None of us disputes the need to upgrade our pilot training. However, this objective can be achieved on much better terms and with significant benefits in general for our country and especially for our Greek aviation industry. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we all know that without a strong economy and strong domestic production base by exploiting public infrastructure and human resources there can be no strong national defence. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not complain, it has also taken its second-guessment into account, as is the case with all the Members of Parliament. Ms. Jack, Member of the Pellas, by Webex, now has the floor. Your Honor, will you take all your time?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u124	Yes, Madam President, I will take all my time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u125	Good, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the armamental event we are about to discuss today, or, if you want, and beyond the operational event, that is, what this Armed Forces armaments programme means, we should first of all talk about the political fact, how this government has done again, this Prime Minister, who is so well trained in politics from his long-standing family experiences, to buy at a retail price which is sold at a wholesale price. That's all a Mitsotakis can do, and if you put in the equation and a Petsa, then you have the perfect armament crime. And this, because, in the three years of his term of office, Mitsotakis has been identified with the ruthless waste of others' money, that is, the Greek people. Of course, the account will not be long before it comes to the Greek people, but he and his government, one of their things that they have put aside, one with the Pecha list, one with the distractions of judges and prosecutors at ministerial offices - you understand what I mean - will manage to get away with it again, just like the previous ones of their party and the previous ones and so on. In fact, we have also seen Mr Karamanlis, who not only destroyed the country, but burned it, burned it, as the restless leader from the foundation "Constantine Karamanlis". But let us move on to the operational substance, since Mr Mitsotakis, as much as trying to describe him and his government, is completely incomprehensible. Indeed, there is one problem that needs to be solved because the training planes we have are not working, so that our pilots cannot be trained when they leave the Icarus School. This problem, however, could be solved by the associations, by purchasing new training aircraft and related equipment, such as simulators, even by buying aircraft through leasing. For example, 10 aircraft could be purchased with leasing at a cost that does not exceed 250 million, which, even if we add the 35 million people who need time for maintenance and if we put the fuel on, in twenty years this plan would cost 700 million and we would be left with the planes. On SYRIZA’s day offers from Canadian, Israeli, etc. had come from the competition of companies. companies for 1.2 billion, but rejected as too high. It was our decision then to move on to the market for training aircraft and the relevant market survey for the acquisition of aircraft at a cost that would not exceed 700 million, as I said above. But you first showed in the Committee on Equipment a plan at the cost of 1,375 billion. After that, the Minister for National Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, showed the same plan as the 470 million plan, to 1.850 billion, that is, an increase of 35% as an allegedly inflation rate of 3.4%, which is a crazy figure, because according to a European Central Bank directive, the inflation rate cannot go more than 2% in the euro area. In fact, with your plan, Mr. Minister, Mr. Panayotopoulos, during the first three years the Greek side will have to give the Israeli company an advance of 600 million. In other words, you're actually giving them the money to buy the planes and then sell us the service. I think that to this extent, Mr Panayotopoulos, and after this terrible market, we can now call you or as a man extremely indifferent to the Greek taxpayer's money - these 2 billion, about 2 billion, is roughly an annual ENVIA to tell you differently - or simply as a fan and imitator of the works and days of Aki Tsohatopoulos. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Why else would I describe a minister's intention to buy three times over an armament program? The government of the tired Prime Minister before yours, Mr Karamanlis, did this misery, and you dismantled the country from the bottom.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u127	Mercy, Mr. President! To speak PASOK...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u128	So it seems that the armaments programs are, for you, the privileged field of enrichment of your party's people or that you are simply a man who did not realize that he buys three times above his price a piece of equipment. Of course, it is not just that you are leveling the public funds, that you are also undermining national defence, because with these huge overcompensations you are not able to obtain more and possibly better weapons systems from the army.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u129	We'll forget modern history, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u130	And I wonder: If you give almost 2 billion for training aircraft, for the fighters, for what do you have to give, 40 billion? We've started and are living exactly the same days of the old age, of total corruption in the armaments programs. In fact, this billion-dollar dance you have unleashed against the pockets of the Greek people and the worthy of the army...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u131	Ladies and gentlemen, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u132	We will forget modern history, Madam President! Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u133	...is accompanied by the old good recipe of the media and web pages. We are looking ahead to the various websites and media giving a line of pride about this unjustly expensive armament program. So, all of us Greeks are extinguished from pride that we pay three times over the armament program and lay the foundations for our next financial collapse, which has led to a complete depreciation of our military equipment and our national defense. I want, Mr Panayotopoulos, to ask you as a Greek citizen and as a patriot, which I sincerely believe you are: Are you really not ashamed? How many times does the Right have to burn and fire this country? Ladies and gentlemen, Greece needs to be equipped to be strong in the region, but by paying for the cucumber, neither the country nor the Armed Forces, nor our long-term strength, because everything we are paying today, lays the foundations for our country's next social and economic crisis, for the next extended period of our national weakness. I call on Mr Mitsotakis - and I do not call on Mr Panayotopoulos, because I know that his ministers are clergymen in the final state of Maximos - to show some respect to the country from which he and his family are being fed, three generations now and to try to leave, leaving the country standing, because with empty funds it will be for sure. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u134	Me too, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u135	Rejoice her! Good PASOK! Rejoice!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u136	The Minister of National Defence Mr Panagiotopoulos has the floor now. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Madam President. Ms. Jacki, reminiscent of the seasons of the old good PASOK, when she was a companion of Mr. Tsochazopoulou, compared his works and his days with our performance at the Ministry of National Defence. What to do, we have to listen to this as well, but it really should take more care of what it says in this Chamber, even if it does so by means of teleconferencing. Take care. Let me first say a few words about yesterday's accident, so that the House can be informed. Indeed, the operator repeatedly attempted to land in the runway of Andravida in very low visibility conditions. The corridor almost didn't seem, almost all of it. During his last attempt, while almost touched in the hallway, the aircraft was inclined with a tendency to leave the hallway. The Control Tower instructed him to abandon. During the third time the Control Tower gave this command, the operator did leave, activating the evacuating seat. Fortunately, it is well because of this very low height - almost the height of the ground - to eject with the seat you understand that there is a real danger of serious injury or even worse. He was transferred to the NGA where he has been subjected to tests for precautionary reasons, but he is safe and well. That's what matters most. This is also relevant to the issue I am going to develop, ladies and gentlemen, because the human potential, the spiritual potential of the Air Force, is seen as more valuable than the materials, from the media. So the loss of a pilot is a loss, I'd say, unbearable, incalculable. Luckily yesterday he was avoided. From that point on, I'm coming to the point. I listened very carefully. It is an absolute right for opposition to control the government. The choice of issues to which the Opposition is progressing, in particular the Qualification, also has some symbolism. You choose to raise the opposition tone today for armaments, for the great effort to strengthen the country's defence, to rearm the Armed Forces after great delays and inactions over recent years. I have kept the common position of all of you who have spoken of intense scandalology, of the smell of scandal or scandals. Look, I object that the scandal in this whole case is the huge delays in the rearming of the Armed Forces, given the geopolitical realities that the country faces, so that we have entered a race to cover gaps. Of course, you made your choices too. It is characteristic that during the five years of governance SYRIZA the only new armament it ran was the 500 million naval cooperation aircraft supply programme, when now, after six to seven years, this work can also be done with drones and UAVs. But these were your priorities, what to do. But this is another debate, perhaps for another hour, not now. You are now choosing to oppose not only the most important, the most strategic, aid programme of the Air Force, which you have ever described as affected. Only offended does the Air Force feel. On the contrary, he feels glad that the training of the Icarans now has a perspective and does not go straight to the deadlock, directly to the wall, to the sudden death. Not only do you not choose this specific programme to stand up for, and even call it scandalous for over-costs, which I think have been explained, but I will certainly give you today, because this is my duty, as you are entitled to ask, but you are also opposed to a completely own decision, ladies and gentlemen of the Civilian Representation. With the questions you ask, you show that you've forgotten her. And it's a bad thing to start this effort with an untrue and an inaccurate one. The truth, one of many, but the main one - and I read from the text of your question - is that you write that SYRIZA had secured a leasing offer of about 1.2 billion. What proposal did you secure? First of all, you have not decided whether you have chosen the solution of the financial lease or our famous proposal to buy it. Because here I have heard from the rapporteur that your proposal was to buy. We'll see about that, too. But what proposal of 1.2 billion? The only proposal negotiated by the political leadership of the Ministry of Defence since 2017 was that of the Canadian company of 1.9 billion without reservations. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You know that both proposals we were asked to consider in committee did not include reservations. Reservations, as you know, are 6.1% - if I am not mistaken - for the shareholders of the Air Force and are commonly approved in each contract signed. However, the text of the proposals that we had in our hands and discussed in the Committee on Equipment clearly stated that the price we were discussing was a price without reservations. Of course, there is another question of indexation. The only offer, then, is the offer of the Canadians. If you count - if you count, because this offer is not on the table, it is over - at 1.9 billion bookings and indexation - 3% were then given by the Canadians, they had no opportunity to negotiate why their proposal was not selected - the overall proposal would be close to 2.7 billion. That was the only proposal you had in your hands and you were right not to adopt it. Right, in my view. There were objections within the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence at the time, but this proposal, you know, had been processed in the Defence Council on 19-1-2021, as I said in the House, with the exception that I spoke about SGEI, was the Defence Council under the Minister then Mr Kammens. The Defence Council had decided at that time on specific matters. The inaccuracy is that you say the solution has been examined directly on the market of modern training instruments. First of all, throughout the whole debate and with suspicion of economic object and Scandalology, etc. you refer only to the market of the ten new educational jets. It's not just the Kalamata International Training Center for Flights only 10 jets new. It is also a reset of twenty-five helmets who are in a depreciation phase by ELBIT, the company that took over it, the Israeli. It is also the creation of all terrestrial infrastructure with addition of simulators for tutorials, simulators for jet, computers and other services directly related to education. We are therefore not only talking about ten jets, which have cost, as you say, an integrated package which, in the end, constitutes the creation of the International Training Centre with what this entails. So that's the inaccuracy. And I remind you, because I really do wonder how you forget it. You had considered this alternative, that is, the market, and you rejected it - and you did well - as unfavourable, with the 1-11-2017 opinion of the GFCM, the military leadership. At that time the military leadership of SAGI was Mr Apostolakis Chief of HNDGS and Mr Christodoulou Chief of Aviation General Staff. So you rejected the market. Why do you come and tell us now: 'Why didn't you overthrow what we rejected?' What's the logic in that? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You said that the solution to the leasing is more favourable. It is your suggestion that we apply and implement, because you have a flaw. You see the problem, but you're not going to solve it. Explore in findings and discussions and further discussions when time is running out. Even in December at the meeting of the Committee on Equipment, your proposal was that we should discuss it a little more. Let's talk about it, spend some more time. But the deadlock came and came very quickly. In fact, then, at the meeting of the SAGA, what had happened? A MOPY had been approved. IMPS means an integrated sub-programme proposal study. That was the study that existed. The study had been carried out by the Air Force Staff. The IMPY took the decision on leasing, you embraced it, and in essence this decision was ratified by the decision of the SAR later. So let's start over. What's the dead end? The problem is old and it is the training of the Icars in the air transport sector, particularly in the context of advanced training, that is to say the new jet jet. The educational T-2 we have is the 1970s. The corresponding third generation jets, which we then supplied in the 1970s, were the Fantom, the Miraz F1 -- do not exist in operation - A -7 Corser - do not exist in operation - are equivalent to third generation aircraft. The fact that in 2021 the training of the Icares is done with three educational - three out of sixteen so many fly - third generation when we are preparing and discussing, possibly, the supply of a fifth generation aircraft, F -35 - we will, at some point, also enter this debate - while we are already using aircraft somewhere between the fourth and the fifth generation - the F -16 in particular with their evolution, their upgrade to Viper, but also the Ruffala we have supplied - is in itself outrageous. We have a very old aircraft, to deal with the educational object, which must satisfy requirements that are much more advanced, promoted in aircraft technology, especially when in a year and a half from now the life of these aircraft, T-2, expires. From the second half of 2023 there will be neither spare parts nor support. Our Icars will not be able to train with the jet jet. This problem couldn't wait any longer. You discussed it, but you did not decide to solve it. We would lead to a sudden death in the flight object of our Icars training, with all that that implies. Is that really worth the Air Force? And is that offensive to what we decided? Insulting is what I just analysed. And not only offensive, it is also disastrous for the future of the Air Force and the quality and value it has in the world. As far as helicals T-6 are concerned, they fly eight to forty-five. On the basis of this agreement, this company comes in and is obliged to upgrade and make twenty-five of the forty-five by, if necessary, some other provisions for the remaining ones, the other twenty. There are proposals that we should take advantage of them, but that is also where education was incomplete. He said the Chief of Air Force at the meeting of 21-12-2020: "Standard is coming in the immediate near future. The operational need, in order to make a decision, is urgent." Already in 2017, this was set as a target - and it was well set - but the problem is older. Since 2007, it has been an official target of the civil leadership of the Ministry of National Defence. ‘Low availability T-6, due to a lack of active contract for subsequent support’, tractors. "Last, the Air Force, a global user of T-2, with low availability and an end to life in a year and a half from now." "Aggregation of a large required non-executive flightman", i.e. aggregation of Icars, which had no flight hours, to complete their training and went to their units after eight years, with everything that had to do with the Air Force due to delays, because there were no planes and flight hours available. This, together with the increase of the admissionees to the Icarus School from forty to sixty, implemented since 2021, will increase the problem and I believe that this is not worthy of the Air Force. In December 2017, therefore, an information note was drawn up to the Minister in order to resolve the problems in the flight training of the Icars and Humanities faced by the Air Force. This note referred to the study of an integrated IMPP proposal, entitled ‘Creating a training centre in Kalamata’, which had been approved by the Higher Air Council as of 25 August 2017 and subsequently by the GFCM, the General Staff Board as of 1 November 2017. In view of the IKA, a more advantageous solution was chosen for the immediate fulfilment of the requirements of IKA's flight training, the long-term financial leasing to support aircraft T6 and the acquisition and support of aircraft for the advanced operational phase, i.e. jets, jets. That's what IMPYP said, on which we were called to decide, while you hadn't decided and still wondered whether you should go against your decision, buy, buy, or do it on our own, or take your own decision, or whether we had to take your own decision and go on a financial lease. This decision has therefore already been taken since November 2017. He hasn't changed since. Among them, the need to maintain and then support a fleet of twenty-fifths of aircraft T-6 of the helicals has been examined, as well as the modernisation of the ground training programme and simulators. The ability to convert an existing old system to meet need, given that the Air Force remains the only user of T-2, as I said. Any possible proposal of any airplane upgrade would transfer the full cost to the Air Force. That's what the integrated study says. The choice has therefore become economically unfavourable and ultimately unfeasible. That is what the integrated study at the time says. In addition, the supply of a new advanced operational phase aircraft. The market was not considered to be profitable, due to a large investment in capital as well as a significant implementation time. Furthermore, the supply of used aircraft - this issue has also been raised, this alternative, in the IMPS - has been considered not to ensure in terms of cost-effectiveness the appropriate quality and quantitative training of long-term flight crews for transition to modern fighter aircraft. After all, there were no aircraft available to that effect. In addition, with regard to the implementation of advanced operational training in training centres abroad, what did IMPY say? The training of students to a foreign institution would require an annual cost for the Air Force of about EUR 1,100,000 per student and would lead to the full flow of the flying and service units of the Air Force from third countries, from foreign countries, if we sent them all out. This is avoided by what we have decided. With regard to the financial leasing route, after an investigation, this model has already been applied to other military flights around the world. For example, the contract between Israeli Air Force and ELBIT to support T6- aircraft does so also by the Israelis -, by the US Air Force for the support of aircraft F -18 etc. So we are not just the ones who do this by dismissing, if you like, sovereign rights, as you claim. All flights go to the model of meeting training needs in new jet leased through third companies. Not all of them, too many and chosen. Israeli and American are millions of chosen, how to do so. So the Air Force considered it to be the most appropriate and safest way to conclude a transnational agreement, proposing the Canadian company at that time. This note was adopted by the then Minister, and in a comment by the then Deputy Minister, Mr Vitsa, it is your comment, Mr Vitsa, that it was proposed to speed up the procedures for drafting and submitting the corresponding sub-programme activation file. So, Mr Vitsa, then with your comment you suggested the opposite of what you are coming to tell us today that we had to do. You have then proposed speeding up the solution to the financial lease for the purchase of new jets. This is on your comment in this decision. We didn't remember it today. In July 2018, as you understand, in the context of actions aimed at concluding an transnational agreement with Canada, as approved, the continued consultations with the Canadian company were chosen. The level of this cost, including legal reservations, was more than EUR 2 billion, as I told you. The file was returned to OHIM by the office of Mr. ANYTHE at the time - it was Mr. King at the time - on July 16, 2019, unsubstantiated. In the meantime, the Defence Council of January 2019, by which it was decided and agreed - Mr Kammenos and the rest of the political and military leadership - to continue the process with the Canadian authorities on the proposal of the Canadians, to send to the office of Prime Minister the requirement to increase the armaments budget to cover the financing of this sub-programme - logical - and to continue exploratory and other proposals. Other proposals, however, did not come up, no other proposal came. The elections took place in November, the Israeli company appeared, in December 2019, the then Director of the GFCM went to Israel, where the Israeli company's interest in the establishment of the International Training Centre was officially manifested. In February 2020, on my own visit, this interest was reaffirmed and from there on, competition began to work, as I said, and the proposals, namely, the level of proposals, one after the other, were reduced until we reached what we discussed in the December 2020 Committee. It is characteristic that the Canadian company, which was then discussing with EUR 2 billion, came to offer EUR 750 million downwards and reaches a proposal of EUR 1,250,000. Thus, the sub-programme studied by the then government for a transnational agreement with the Government of Canada was never activated. As I said, the changes to offer by Canadian companies were followed, without, of course, including taxes, legitimate reservations and 3% indexation, as the Canadians then offered. I'm going to need some time, Madam President, in order to answer that question. I think it is important to be precise and detailed in our responses, especially in terms of numbers. In the signatory agreement - and this is the answer to the second question - the total cost of the programme is EUR 175 000 for a 20-year programme, but twenty-two years of the agreement, because it is right and intelligent - the Israelis have predicted that if the education system operates for twenty years, it will take two years to make investments in infrastructure and, of course, the market in aircraft. It is not a simple case to buy ten jet jet aircraft and offer them with a leasing fee to the 120 AIA for the training project. So they put twenty-two years. The final indexation was set at 2.65% and I do not think that about 2% or more than 2% of indexation is abnormal, much more scandalous prediction in such a Convention of this depth of time. Why does contracts continue to last for only four years, ladies and gentlemen? Have you wondered? Because every four years the companies - supplier companies and they say 'prices have changed, we have to re-sign a new contract then backed up'. This is the usual practice everywhere around the world. We are talking about a twenty-two-year contract - twenty-two years! - and this is the usual contractual practice. And I would remind you that we have adopted, as should have been done, the necessity and feasibility of activation of this programme in the committee, and we have also talked about how much this amount has also been adopted, of course, but from there and beyond with the activation decision, the phase of the negotiations for the signing of the final Convention has been triggered. The question of indexation was also raised in the negotiating phase. If you wish, if there was an irregularity at the committee meeting, it was not discussed then that there would also be a question of indexation. However, if the Canadians also took the job, they also considered, as a given practice, that there would also be a question of indexation. As far as bookings are concerned, there was in the body of tenders and the House knew that bookings would be calculated and that is how the procedure continued. So - and here I think this is something of interest - since the annual adjustment of 2.65% agreed, the first three years of the programme have been excluded, namely the first three years of operation, as long as the new Kalamata infrastructure is built, there will be no indexation. This was a result - if you like - a small success of the Greek side in the negotiations. That is why a sum of EUR 21 million has actually been saved. With regard to the forward repayment - a lot has been said about this - it is certainly due to the need to buy aircraft, jet and, of course, to make all the necessary projects to strengthen Kalamata's infrastructure, to bring in new simulators, two new ones for helicopters, a new one for jet jets, and to install the other services and infrastructures for the training of pilots on the ground. Twenty-five computers - if I'm not mistaken - world based training, terrestrial training, offers the chosen company. I say that in the signed contract with the Government of Israel over the first four years they have included total payments of about EUR 550 million ahead, as I have told you. If the Canaanese proposal had been chosen, the equivalent would be EUR 584 million, more money for forward payments. And I come to the third question, namely the procedure and the comparison of proposals. Pay attention, we have said so to the committee. In accordance with the decision of the CSM meeting, negotiations were concluded with the Canadians and others, the Prime Minister was informed of the increase in the budget, of any other offers made by the Air Force. They didn't exist. During the investigation procedure, some proposals were, of course, examined by companies that showed interest in a financial lease at all times. From the comparative examination of the final offers up to 2020 that we had to consider showed that the company’s offer from Israel presented some comparative advantages. I list them very briefly: First, a faster rate of return for flight and jet aircraft, the M-346, in Greece. The provision of hours on the jet at two years only after the signing of the Convention was considered and assessed as a critical supply, taking into account the current situation of the old aircraft. Secondly, a larger number of aircraft hours provided -6 as well as aircraft M -346 and helical and jet jets. What was the trick - if you want - done by the Israelis then? During flight hours, however, they also gave flight hours as a whole on the ground. The Canadians gave mixed ground and air. As you know, the trainer needs some time on the ground to activate the machine, activate the systems, and then do the most flight work in the air. The Israelis gave extra flight hours mixed, and they also gave some flight hours to the ground, and this prediction was more favourable. Thirdly, the provision of two new simulators for jet aircraft with a clarified annual operating schedule. Fourthly, the provision of a new aircraft simulator for helicopters, t-6, also with a cleared annual operating schedule. Fifth, providing more training aid and sixth, flexibility to modify the programme with the possibility of increasing services beyond the requirements of the Air Force. The Israelis were a little more specific as regards the specific services they provided, the Canadians were a little more unclear, perhaps because they considered that they would need some cost increase and that is why they went to 1,250, but with ambiguities as to what they would provide, especially in ground education, so that they would have the margin to say along the way, if they took the job, that more money will be needed here. The Israelis were very specific, and that is why the Air Force chose their proposal. All the tenders examined provided for the fighting adjustment. This adjustment is a standard practice for long-term contracts. It is either fixed at the beginning of the contract or is calculated from a predetermined type of adjustment, which is based on the relevant industrial indicators of the materials and services concerned. As I said, it was finalised after the negotiations. As far as the third direct market question is concerned, I think that has been answered in detail. The study on military and political leadership at the Ministry on SYRIZA was chosen. That is what we have done. She also rejected the market and opted for the model of the leasing. From there on, there is, of course, a condition according to which the transfer of ownership will be considered in future, as is done in the leasing contracts for the objects provided, namely aircraft, land-based training systems and spare parts, which will be the property of the Air Force in the future. In terms of payments and the increase in the initial agreed costs, we have said about EUR 175 000 for twenty-two years, adjustment of 2.65%. The total cost, therefore, of the adjustment amounts to about EUR 1.746 million. With legal reservations it amounts to about 1,853,000,000 euros. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, the increase in costs is not due to a scandal, that the Israeli company has allegedly allocated money to officials either of the military or of the political leadership, as Mrs Jack, directly implied, compared to the works and days of Aki Tsochazopoulou, but because they are calculated in a specific way, specific type, bookings and indexation. Now, with regard to contracts concluded through transnational agreements in the current legal framework, your seventh question is excluded from the scope of the law - apart from the first part of it relating to the activation process of the programme, as we did - contracts awarded by one government to another on certain specific matters, namely the supply of military equipment or sensitive equipment or services directly linked to such equipment or works and services, especially for military purposes or sensitive works and services. The draft conventions or agreements drawn up shall be subject to the approval of the HRC. Therefore, on the basis of the above-mentioned legal framework, a transnational agreement is ratified by the CSCE. There is no need for ratification by means of a legislative initiative, that is, a draft law by the Plenary Assembly of the Greeks. I leave the question of examining the contract open by the committee concerned. I think it is reasonable that what you are asking us to do and perhaps plan to discuss some time in the Committee on Equipment the Convention and make it a leaf and a feather. But, from now on, in accordance with the current legislative framework, the OSCE validates it and not Parliament's plenary. As regards the sixth question, the possibility of support from the ODA is not really the responsibility of the OHIM. I've heard a lot about the NDA. However, in the contract signed between the Greek and Israeli Ministrys, in the May 2020 defence agreement, as well as in the implementation of the International Training Centre in Kalamata, it is foreseen that aircraft maintenance work will continue to be carried out with care of the Hellenic Air Force. The Air Force has the power to provide support to the EAA. Currently there are T-6 and T-2 aircraft in the ODA for maintenance or the expected support. In particular - and this is important to mention this - there are currently two T-2s in the ODA that joined in September and October 2021. The estimated yield for the first is within the month of November 2021 and for the other there is no estimate from the ODA, but I think it will not be too long. There are also two other T-6s, i.e. helicals, which go for a check on erosion, the so-called 'corruption control'. Here they have joined since July 2012 and March 2013 two T-2 aircraft, i.e. jet-teaching, with an unknown performance assessment. I am not very optimistic about whether and when they will be attributed. However, what I can say is that nine T-6 aircraft have been assigned to the Air Force in 2019-2021- three in 2019, three in 2020 and three in 2021- with delays ranging from two hundred sixty-two days, based on the estimated date of performance, up to eight days. One of them was recently delivered, in July 2021, four days earlier than the date of delivery. Therefore, ODA is already in charge of the project to support and maintain these aircraft. Somewhere he hasn't done so well, somewhere else he's done well. The same perspective is expected to exist when twenty-five helicals are upgraded and ten new educational jets are bought. As long as EAB can support them. That is what we have been saying for many years, because when the delays begin, as you can see, there is a problem. Finally, Mr Haritsis has rightly raised a number of issues of a local nature. What is happening in Messinia and whether the operation of the local airport will be affected? Whether the great development perspective will be affected, especially in the Messinia tourist field? I think we have given a number of answers, firstly, to the Committee on Equipment, in the debate in December 2020, when these questions were raised, reasonably, by local Members who, of course, convey the interest or the anxiety or the concern of local society. They got answers. And we have rightly said that not only will the operation of the local political airport be affected to the worst, but perhaps with the upgrades of the infrastructure of the military base in Kalamata, the possibilities of the political airport will also be upgraded. We're talking about new control towers, new machinery, new infrastructure. From there on, the air object, as you can see, will be no more noise pollution, since noise pollution has more chance of being done with the jets of the 1970s than with the fifth generation. You understand that. They are much quieter and much more vulnerable to new technologies. There will no doubt be more flying work, but this will be done by agreement so that the operation of the airport is not affected. Of course! As regards, of course, in the field of firing, this has nothing to do with this convention. This is where training takes place in the air force. It's not about shooting with the Metere people who'll bring the Ruffles the educational jets. That's obvious. They'll only be trained in the flight object. Therefore, it has no effect, there is no question of reopening the firing field. In addition to the local Members who were informed, they showed interest and came to my office for some briefing or consultation, mayor Kalamata, Vice-Regional Commissioner Messinia, the District Chief. They all got clear answers. On the development side, even when this airport is turned into an international training centre and pilots will also come from war flights from other countries, Arab states, perhaps - it has already expressed interest from at least two Arab countries, Egypt and the United Arab Emirates - but also Israelis, then, as you can see, development and tourism prospects for the country, I think, are even more optimistic. This is the benefit of setting up an international training centre, plus that when foreign pilots come and are trained in our own facilities, as we are now doing with our own in Italy, having to have not only the depreciation of this investment, but also the profit for the Armed Forces and the Air Forces, for all of them will pay to be trained not by the Israelis. The Israelis will have invested in building the infrastructure and paid for it. They'll be trained by the Air Force. The Air Force, our instructors, will do the training, the wishes and the infrastructure the Israelis will ensure them under this contract. This is the vision, if you like, of the establishment of the International Training Centre. I'm done, 'cause I'm out. There's an enormous effort in the country's national defense. The aim is to shield Greece against any threat and, of course, against the present threat from the east. This effort has a huge economic cost, yes, but it also has an incalculable national benefit, and we need to take that into account. Greece, therefore, strengthens its Armed Forces, increases its deterrent power, builds alliances, equips itself with defensive agreements with friends and allies, acquires intense, reinforced geopolitical influence, rises up statureally, shields. Do not stand stubbornly against this effort, especially by raising ethical issues, when in fact the political leadership is willing to give you all the answers, it gives you them and it is willing to give you more. You said no to all the equipment, not to the Vipers, which you have nowadays - and you are taking a decision on this - you have decided, not to replace the Mirages, not to the Greek-Albanese agreement, but almost not to the Rafael. That's good again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u138	We didn't decide.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u139	You didn't decide. Okay. Not in the Greek-American agreement, from what I hear and not with implied and severe reproach here in Kalamata, the agreement that actually gives the Hellenic Air Force a future, does not disperse the Greek taxpayer's money, but gives a future where there was sudden death and a dead end in a year and a half from now. It's a very fast time for those eighteen months to pass. It's like tomorrow. We are giving you a solution to a problem that you have confined yourself to finding out how serious and difficult it is when all the military leadership was calling you for urgent operational needs. We're doing this with this transnational agreement. You have an absolute right, as I have told you, to check on the government, but not with such strong reproach for this convention, which, on the assumption that it raises a point of order, is that the addition of the amount and the increase in the amount from the activation of the indexation clause and the reservations that exist in all contracts has not been discussed. I can't tell you what a stand to take. You have the right to raise the questions you raised. I will just tell you that our debt and our duty are to continue this effort, to continue to shield the Armed Forces. The Armed Forces are not only Rafah and the freshmen, they are not just media and platforms, but they are the investment in the inspiring potential. This inspiring potential is coming to strengthen, ensuring that the training of the Icars, one of the world's best military flights, has a future and will not end in eighteen months from now. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, it is known in this House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice is tabling its reports on the draft law of the Ministry of Civil Protection. A. JUDGMENTS OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES ‘Preparation of the Protocol between the Governments of the Hellenic Republic and the Republic of Serbia implementing the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Serbia on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’ B. Other: ‘Preparation of the Protocol between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of Montenegro on the application of the Agreement between the European Community and the Republic of Montenegro on the readmission of persons residing without authorisation, signed in Brussels on 18 September 2007’ C. Other: ex II. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Council of Ministers of the Republic of Albania establishing and operating a centre for police and customs cooperation’ D. OBJECTIVES ‘Freshment of the Memorandum of Understanding (‘NPM’) between the Ministry of Citizen Protection of the Hellenic Republic and the European Border and Coast Guard Agency (Frontex) for the hosting of an Liaison Officer of Frontex in the Hellenic Republic’. We are going through the procedure of the Parliamentary Representatives. Mr Ioannis Ragussis has the floor on behalf of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Panagiotopoulos, in all honesty, two and a half years in this Chamber, at least I have not personally attended a speech of Minister with so many innumerable contradictions which, if we had time to analyse them one, would require a whole meeting. The Minister spoke for more than 40 minutes, Madam President. Mr. Panayotopoulos, you said thousands of words. No problem. Three words you didn't say, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Three simple Greek words. Do you know who these are? 'Here is the Convention.' These three words, Mr Panayotopoulos, not only did you not say them - 'Behold, the contract, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance' - but when the knot arrived at the comb at the edge of your speech, you said 'we will probably give you the contract to see it in committee'. ‘Possibly’. You stressed the word. Mr Panayotopoulos, you have the right to defend your political decisions, but you have no right to mock us in our faces and underestimate our intelligence, as well as the intelligence of the Members of the New Democracy. What have you done wrong with what your colleagues have said today? For which of these allegations, what information so detailed did you once say the words 'you lie' or have once used the verb 'dispute'? You didn't even say that on one occasion. You have therefore confirmed all the allegations, arguments and evidence that we invoke, and on the basis of which we end up with something that I think is fundamentally honest, Mr Panayotopoulos, requires you to recognise that it is not our defence policy. In order to make it possible to use these elements, these arguments, these claims and to end up in such terminology, we are doing so because you are obliging us, Mr Panagiotopoulos, to do so above all, and our obligation to do so in the public interest. I will make two introductory points, because they are of particular importance. Firstly, it was unfortunate to use the example of yesterday's accident in relation to today's debate, Mr Panayotopoulos, because in addition to the joy you have given us from the description you have given, you have indeed described us a superworthy pilot of the Air Force, on the basis of everything you have said, who has tried to save his aircraft and at the last minute almost cost him the fact that the launch button has fallen last minute, you have used an example of a pilot, a pilot of our Air Force, for whom we must be truly proud, who has not been trained by the Israelis, Mr Panayotopoulos. We will talk about this later, because you said so at the end of your speech. It turns out that the prowess of the Armed Forces, and in particular of the Air Force, was in no way to reach these levels the great - which makes us proud - such solutions. Second point, Mr Panayotopoulos, because you do it systematically and you do it especially, and it is impressive that as Minister of National Defence you choose to do what I tell you now. You are constantly talking about delays and inertia in previous years and you speak to yourself as if you had anything stupid toward you, Mr Panayotopoulos. I'm telling you right - off. Do you really think we're stupid? Mr. Panayotopoulos, I was Deputy Minister of National Defence for six months in 2012. In 2012, Mr. Panayotopoulos, who I do not know what you did, I know that the Air Force had fuel to fly its aircraft until July 2012. In August there were no fuel to fly the Greek Air Force, no fuel to stop Turkish. Do you know why this was happening, Mr. Panayotopoulos? And do you know why this inertia - which is unacceptable to claim such arguments - continued over the next few years? Because there was no money, Mr. Panayotopoulos for the Armed Forces and not even for her operating expenses. And you know why there was no money in the country, Mr. Panayotopoulos? Because a government of a particular party, Mr Panayotopoulos, in 2009 produced - through dispersal and waste - EUR 24 billion of a primary deficit in that country, spending the country's money and leading to this drama - which we all know well - the Greek people. Air Force insulted? 'No' you say. We insist that the Air Force is offended, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Why insulted? Because this work that you are going on and entrusting the Israelis we claim that the Greek Armed Forces, the Greek Air Force, can do. Why don't you do it? Since you said what you said before, and because I have also had a weakness to keep a word for my interlocutor, we are the ones who said that we rejected this proposal. You said it a moment ago. And you, otherwise, came here to rely on the Canaanese proposal that you said. Not even Vitch and Dragon said so. You said that ten minutes ago that the Government of Alexis Tsipras rejected this proposal from the Canadians and you come on the basis of this proposal to build your other claims? At least unacceptable, Mr Panayotopoulos, because he cannot withstand simple logic. Have any views you want, but you can't fool us in the face, passing us as idiots. You have come here and said: 'In the light of our decision, the Canaanese proposal'. You rejected the Canadian proposal. You come back and say, "We solve the problems, because we have a sense of urgency and duty. You did not have it and you did time." And you say a moment ago that Vitsas here had written on his note "Get the topic". In other words, at the same time as you are coming and say that the Deputy Minister of Government says "strengthen the issue", you say you did not run the matter. At the same time as you say that we have rejected the Canadian proposal, you say that the basis for comparing your claims is the Canadians. And one next thing, Mr. Panayotopoulos. Because I repeat, whether you're passing us for idiots or I really don't want to go to the other conclusion that someone is leading in a reasonable way. What's the financial leasing, Mr. Panayotopoulos? Do you know what the leasing is? What is the financial leasing you came here saying 'the financial leasing'? What's the financial leasing? Did we raise a matter of whether the Air Force could organise this international training centre with leasing, i.e. a financial lease or a purchase or a loan? Is that what we're dealing with? Or our point is who is the owner who makes the decision on the leasing, to whom would it belong? Why are you doing what you don't understand? We did not raise the issue of leasing or loan or direct payment. We raised a matter - major issue - that at the time that this work can do, this work and for the benefit of EAB, the Greek Air Force with the worthy executives, said by Mr Vitsas, that they are training American pilots in the United States, in Texas right now, you say 'no, I will give it to the Israelis'. This is the major difference. So don't say, and say again, Mr. Panayotopoulos, about the financial leasing as if that were the issue. This is what you tried through this tactic, essentially, to blur - as the soupe does - the waters, using the term of sudden death. Why didn't we have all the previous years? Why didn't we have a sudden death and why in the name of or in the face of a sudden death you had to save and well go to the Israeli solution, confirming what we are accusing you of? You do so with this excessive costing that reaches over EUR 1.80,000,000, as well as the fact that you exclude all the alternatives that existed from the Hellenic Air Force. The country's public debt, Mr. Panayotopoulos, do you know how far you've reached it? You've reached it at 207% of GDP. Greece never had the public debt it recorded in 2021, more than 200%. And you come here lightly to heart, and you speak of hundreds of millions of euros in a country in debt that you are constantly overpowering. You have confirmed that you will give the company this EUR 600 million and with that money the company, as we have accused you, will buy the equipment. You have confirmed that there is a 265% indexation when Mr Tsipras told you that this level does not meet anywhere in international trade with banks or government lending bonds and anything else. You really didn't leave anything you didn't confirm everything we've said. All you have done is not commit to bringing the contract here, but say this "possibly". [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Mr Panagiotopoulos, to be absolutely clear to you and the majority Members, we do not discuss or raise a question of whether there is a problem or not. We are talking about this, we raise very serious objections to the solution that you have taken and given. And the solution you went and gave, Mr Panayotopoulos, is one, and it is not compared to whether there was a proposal from the Canadians who had been rejected or not. It is the solution you have given to going to this agreement with the Israelis on the basis of a convention which you have not given to the Greek Parliament. Unless we caught the other insinuation, Mr. Panayotopoulos, it's a KYSEA case. I don't know what you wanted to say and who you wanted to say that, that this contract is a responsibility and a case of the CSCE. Because Maximos is also listening to Mr. Mitsotakis. If you wanted to send a message there, it's certain you sent it, Mr. Panayotopoulos. And I'm going to finish this prototype with two questions. You said in the end that they will not be trained by Israelis, they will be trained by Greeks. And you said that eventually this agreement is just for the infrastructure. Oh, even worse. Worse, Mr. Panayotopoulos! So, what did you come here and confess a moment ago? That the Greek state, which has the money - proof that it will give the Israelis - can only buy the infrastructure? Can't the Greek state go out alone on the market, buy the aircraft, buy the simulators, buy any other element of infrastructure required? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Your confession, Mr Panayotopoulos, that this agreement relates exclusively to the infrastructure, makes the objection we are addressing to you - a scandal that exists in this case - a cause that we now underline after what you said, Mr Panayotopoulos. How will you respond to the Members of the New Democracy when they ask you in the corridor 'Why, Minister, only infrastructure'? What are you gonna tell them? That the Air Force couldn't buy? What will you claim? Of course, you cannot understand why I told you you were full of contradictions, Mr Panayotopoulos. I sincerely tell you - and I wish you all my colleagues - that you should protect yourself and protect us and the Greek political life of the country, because the last one that owes you, Mr Panayotopoulos, the Greek political life of the country is to get her into trouble again with scandals on national defence issues. And in this sense, Mr Panayotopoulos, yes, you have the obligation, even at the last minute, to understand this debate not as a debate and criticism made by the opposition, but as an opportunity to protect yourself, protect us and protect the political life of the country. The Greek people owe you nothing, Mr Panayotopoulos, to get involved in such scandalology and you are morally, politically and institutionally perforated. And if anyone had an opinion to date, after what you said here, you have signed, you have put a stamp on what we blame you on. If you were to say that the training of Greek Air Force pilots is given to the Israelis - if you said so, you said that you did not give it - you know very well, too, how serious questions would be raised in this case. Well, I'm closing my first speech here, Mr. Panayotopoulos, making you this last report and you will hear the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance what he has to say to you. The reference is: Even at the moment, change course, withdraw the decisions you have taken or document them, prove them, bring the contract here to see that one of the things we have identified is not applicable, otherwise, Mr Panagiotopoulos, you will also be and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and personally Mr Mitsotakis, worthy of your destiny. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u142	We thank Mr Ragosi too. The Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u143	Mr Minister of National Defence, Mr Deputy Minister, I will begin with what the honourable Parliamentary spokesman of SYRIZA last said'recall the decision'. So I say to you directly: do not withdraw any decision. Continue to shield and equip the Greek army, the Armed Forces, because this is a high national priority for our country. And we are all proud - but we are all proud - that this government has put our national interests and defending it from worthy Armed Forces, who are shielded by a Navy and by a Air Force and by a remarkable force of the Army. Go on, then. Don't listen to the sirens. The direction and the way is one: To continue the government to equip our Army, our Air Force and our Navy, unbelievably. That's the line. Is it possible that we do not see what is going on around us, not to see geopolitical risks? Do we not hear every day what Turkey says from the east about the Aegean, about our islands? Is it lying that four and a half years, Mr Ragosi, have there been a great deal of inertia in the country's armaments programmes? Didn't we see the void that existed all this time? Didn't it look right now? And you don't see the speed with which this government and the order he's trying to put into the Armed Forces' Armed Forces? So this is the proposal, Mr Panayotopoulos: Continue the Armed Forces' Armed Forces. I have heard three words from Mr Ragosi, who went to Stepma as a representative of SYRIZA. Mr. Ragossi, it's a rhetorical report to you. I have to do this as a parliamentary representative. So he said, Mr Panayotopoulos, that you omitted to say three words and that is where he supported all his arguments: 'Behold the Convention'. But, Mr Ragosisi, I will answer three other words which spontaneously come out of what you said: 'I have not heard anything.' That's what I think is the answer. Because after what the Minister of National Defence said here, after his full, comprehensive, documented speech, I conclude that you and the SYRIZA side have not heard anything. Firstly, he said that, of course, the Convention would bring it to the House to do so - he said exactly those words - paper and feathers. He said so, Mr Ragossi, and we all heard it here. Didn't you hear that? Secondly, on the matter of the sudden death you have said. Did you question the sudden death? Ladies and gentlemen - and I address all my fellow Members - what the Minister of National Defence said and we were aware of, because it had emerged for years that, in a year and a half from now, the issue concerning our Air Force, namely the training of our Icars, will have sudden death because we will no longer be able to train Icarus, is it or is it not a reality? Isn't that sudden death? What are you waiting for? Another postponement and another suspension to make a decision to prepare for this matter? On the subject, to which you referred persistently from here, with the same powers, namely the Air Force itself, with own resources, to build this Training Center - and you insisted on it - I have this to say: But, did you not hear before, do you not discuss with each other at SYRIZA? The Minister said so - it is also registered in the Minutes - that this proposal had been rejected by SYRIZA himself when it was a government and the proposal that was only one, the Canadian proposal of EUR 1.9 billion, had been tabled. That was the suggestion. Are you questioning it? Mr Ragosizis, these are the answers that have substance and content to the issues you have raised. But let me give you a kindly recommendation, not a political remark, to SYRIZA. SYRIZA's colleagues, on the wrong field you are and you are trying to oppose the area of national defence. It is also dangerous and national, especially, harmful. A time ago, ladies and gentlemen, we saw here, in front of the Greek people, the great debate on the Greek alliance, which you not only questioned, which the Greek people dominated, but which, in fact, made it grievous, at the level of questioning the market for the three freshmen Belaras. How much is the debt going to go, how much is the cost and stuff like that? Today you're making exactly the same mistake. It is your slip and you are assessed by the Greek people, but it is your fault and it is the wrong field to make opposition to the crucial issue of national armaments. Why, today, what are you doing? You're trying two things. No matter how much you say you don't mean it, you mean it at the end. Firstly, you are trying to question the need to create an International Training Centre in Kalamata. You are questioning it directly but clearly. And secondly, you're grasping the price of the financial agreement. These two fully responded by the Minister of Defence to his modest, comprehensive and transparent speech. Ladies and gentlemen, in front of me, I have a text to which I am trying to delineate with eight questions, which arise from your question that you have put as members of the SYRIZA and to answer them. But I don't have the time, so in summary I'll give titles worth repeating. The Minister said it more thoroughly, but in titles I will run your question. Firstly, who was it who first showed the need for the establishment of an International Training Center for Kalamata Flights? That is the first question. But the Air Force itself, seeing the danger and deadlock that will lead to the immediate next year, one and a half, as far as the ability to provide flight training is concerned, due to the low availability of training aircraft. It considered that there would be an urgent, immediate risk of decisions on our national defence, as regards the centre of Kalamata. Secondly, what was that for? Answer: For two reasons: First, the availability of T-2E aircraft, whose support ceases to exist in 2023, but also the reduced availability of T-6A aircraft. That's the answer. Time is over and decisions had to be made now, yesterday! Third question: When was the need found? The need for an early and sincere decision on the 1-11-2017 Government of SYRIZA was approved by the GFCM to complete the sub-programme for the establishment of an International Training Centre for Flights at the 120 Air Training Wing in Kalamata. It was your decision. You yourself considered it necessary to make this decision. The need was judged in 2017 as urgent, in fact. Since 2017, the emergency was judged to be urgent because the time was ending and the educational part of the Air Force was leading to a dead end, after aircraft were resurrected and a great residual air object was left to our Icarus, that is to say, in jeopardy the worthy of our Hellenic Air Force. Question 4: What steps have been taken? In December 2017, an information note was drawn up by the then HRD which approved the event of all necessary actions to conclude a democratic agreement with Canada. Mr. Ragossi, you asked me before why we didn't get the Armed Forces, the Air Force. But here you decide with your own decisions to go to Canada with a view to solving the problems of education and the creation of an International Training Centre with a financial leasing. So it has been your decision since 2017. That's a fifth question. How many proposals were there and what was the price at the time? Answer: only one proposal, ladies and gentlemen! There was only one sentence. It was the Canadian proposal of EUR 1.9 billion. There are two answers here for this question. How's that coming from? It was the answer of the Minister of the same, Mr Panayotopoulos, to the Committee of Parliament on 7 October 2021, where he said that this was what he received today from the House, and today he reiterated that what he saw in his office as a proposal to resolve this issue at that time was EUR 1.9 billion from Canada. Question 6...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u144	Complete, Mr Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u145	I shall conclude, Mr President. Please, like everyone, for a little tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u146	Okay, but be more concise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u147	Is there a proposal tabled by the Air Force? That is the point you raised above all. Reply: The claim that we had our own proposal put forward by the Air Force and did not use it is completely untrue, because at the meeting of the GFCM in January 2019, the then Minister of National Defence in the Practus - you can look back and see this of the GFCM, I have it fresher in my memory and I would like to freshen yours - it has decided that the Canadian proposal should be further explored, as will possibly be sought. SYRIZA’s Minister for National Defence himself said so at the time. Seventh question. Were there any new proposals? By decision of the SGI, yes. By decision of the SAA in January 2019, new proposals were sought and the proposals were now two, Israel and Canada. He fully documented with the comparative advantages that the Minister of National Defence Mr. Nikos Panagiotopoulos set for Israel. He said it here one by one. Because it was more comprehensive, clearer, more specific, hence more beneficial to our Air Force than the specific choice of Israel. And let's go to the last one. Was there an increased cost? Ladies and gentlemen, there is in no way an increase in the initially agreed cost, amounting to EUR 175 000 000, and this in twenty-two years' validity of the agreement with a 2.65% indexation. This evidence was repeated before me by the Minister of National Defence. Total cost including adjustment of 2.65% to about 1.7 billion, as the Minister said just before. But where else have you seen there being an economic agreement without any indexation? Where else? Well, here there is a 2.65% indexation and you question that there must be a indexation. Everywhere, in any economic agreement, industrial, commercial, military, there is a indexation. Is that what you're criticising?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u148	Put it down, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u149	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u150	Shut up, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u151	I'm closing, Mr. President. In addition, along with the legal reservations, it reaches about 1.8 billion dollars. So, ladies and gentlemen, you have chosen the wrong path to make confrontation and opposition on this issue. It's another, second, wrong choice after the Greek alliance. The government's choice is correct, is nationally advantageous, is transparent and effective and the most correct of those that have been to date. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u152	And we thank Mr. Brutsi. The Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides, now has the floor. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few hours ago the government submitted to the National Representation the draft budget for 2022. Of course, we will see you in detail in committee and then in plenary, for our special remarks. I would like to make a first comment. The prologue of the text summarizes the jump the country allegedly makes in the following words: "The government has managed to support the economic activity of the country, so that it is ready to make the leap of growth in the post-colonial era. The competitiveness of the economy is also being strengthened and the country is being upgraded, despite the forced burden of public debt, as has been done pan-Europeanly during the pandemic, and this is the result of the implementation of a coherent and comprehensive reform plan...'. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you must stop at some point celebrating development that can be based on exogenous factors and budgetary relaxation, but has no impact on low and medium-income incomes. Greece, after the recession and 2020, according to EUROSTAT, has been in the last few years between the twenty-seven countries of the European Union, in front of Bulgaria alone on a per capita income, at a market power rate of 64%, compared to the average European. In Greece, annual inflation in October 2021 swept across 3.4% of Greeks' available income, with a view to losing to 4% by the end of the year, with an uncertain outlook for declining in 2022. Greece in 2019, according to the latest available comparative data from the European Commission, had the third highest consumption tax in Europe and the fourth highest indirect taxation in the European Union between the twenty-seven countries of the European Union. I note that taxes are increasing by 3.5 billion and 60% are indirect taxes to prove what I am saying. In addition, with the 2022 budget, we have three budgets to take off small and medium-sized enterprises - more vulnerable - households. So you have to stop celebrating. Do not forget the accuracy, indirect taxation, the dedication of wages, labour insecurity, the crisis in the market and the new inequalities that your policy creates at all levels. The country has resources. You manage them not only unfairly, selectively and unscheduledly, but also in essence anti-developmental, as we will show in the debate, I repeat, which will follow the budget. We are, frankly, again in a debate, where rather a deaf dialogue is being held in tone unacceptable to the same subject matter that we are discussing. I won't be analytic in this matter. It is a timely question for SYRIZA, but I will say two - three general comments. First of all, we agree on the need to increase the quality and technology of the Armed Forces - we all agree and we all say it - and that the area of Air Force, which is of great importance, which is a comparative advantage for our country, is an area that must have the full support of the political leadership and is constantly modernising in all possible ways. A debate is taking place here which could be avoided, if the government and the previous one were in some way followed by a different procedure. To lead the information, dialogue in the context of national security at all times, so that we do not get to this type of confrontation, which does not help. In this debate, the Group of the Party of European Socialists tabled two questions on two different dates, the first on 8 January 2021 and the second on 19 April. They were reasonable questions which did not receive a substantial and substantiated answer and which today also in the Minister's speech, although it was detailed, I did not see him answer on the substance of these questions which we raised and which were much in the first and second questions, as well as his written reference to them. I am not the expert to assess the project in relation to costs, and if the cost dispute has a sense of scandal - this can be decided by the competent state bodies - nor should I go into issues where technical specifications exist. But I would like to ask three, four questions, and I shall close. Is there a political commitment, due to developments and enlargement, or whether you want our political alliances in the wider Southeast Mediterranean region, which is related to the award of the agreement to Israel? It is a political issue that the government has to answer and deal with, that is to say, whether it is in the country's interests. Secondly, the added value that the agreement would give the country from the active participation of its Armed Forces in its implementation. And here I think that SYRIZA has a very serious objection, which I endorse, which is that it should be in every such agreement, as far as possible, that the Armed Forces and the war industry will do in our country, to add value. It does not only militaryly upgrade the case, upgrade it politically and diplomaticly. It's a big deal, that of added value to the martial industry. For, across Turkey such added value in every defence agreement includes it and has developed a huge sector in relation to it. And I speak purely national. The question to SYRIZA is why did he not implement and delay his own agreement? And towards New Democracy, because it changed direction. And these questions the government did not answer. And why did the government ultimately not choose the safe path of parliamentary consultation before entering a new agreement? Even now I endorse the request to bring the agreement, even the convention, to the House to have a more detailed debate on it and to inform Parliament. I'm closing, Mr. President. I can't avoid temptation by listening again to the voices about Chochatzopoulos, about the sinful PASOK and all of this. I have a sensation that lures me if you want. All cases involving persons and liability charges, we shielded them by law, sent them to justice, and all our own people who entered this procedure, entered on our own initiative. So you archangels of clearance, which you have not taken the courage from 1989 to today, not a single case to send to the courts, why are you the innocent and the other party guilty? That is very bad for democracy for the whole post-government period, because 1989 has not taught us anything at all. We therefore believe that such issues, such procedures do not raise any voices or screams or return to the past. They must be treated in a completely new way and the national Parliament must be lifted every time to the extent of circumstances instead of being consumed in such controversy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, Mr Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u155	Mr President, I will not have to run out of time. I'll say a few words and I hope they'll be understood. First of all, I listened very carefully to the Minister. I want to make a comment on the general context. It is awkwardly defending a political decision, which obviously - I do not need to go into details - is obviously damaging the Greek public, because there is obviously an alternative, almost half the cost for the Greek public and with better results, we say. To defend you, Mr Panayotopoulos, but the decisions of the government, you come to this Chamber and move our finger in the name of patriotism. In short, you say that we are not patriots, you are patriots and you want to strengthen the worthy of the Armed Forces, and we have not strengthened it for four and a half years. And that would probably be a good reason and debate if you were not a representative of a party that in 2009 bankrupt the country and led it to the Memorandums and the International Commission. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You come to us to move the finger, which we took in 2015, a country completely bankrupt, with the international commission, the International Monetary Fund above our head that we cannot have a responsibility for the last euro either. We were waking up and sleeping with stress about pensions and strengthening the necessary operating expenses of the Armed Forces. So I do not allow you, Mr Panayotopoulos, to raise the finger again and to refer to it here in terms of patriocapilia. Because that's not patriotism, it's a patriot. You know very well whether or not we strengthened the integrity of the Armed Forces. It is another thing to want to strengthen the credibility of the Armed Forces and another to bring about agreements which, in our view, not only have a scandal smell - the expression of the members of the SYRIZA - was diligent, but they are scandalously harming the Greek public. And we are not asking the government today not to strengthen or not to take care or speed up all of us in order to facilitate and upgrade the ability of the Air Force to train our pilots. However, we are also calling for the Greek taxpayer's last euro to be responsible for a time of crisis - the economic crisis is here, it is also experienced by the last household - and, above all, we call for this strengthening of the integrity of the Armed Forces to be based on the credibility of the Air Force officials. We have the best pilots, this is internationally recognised. And I come to the object. I promised that today I would say a few words and stereotypes and say them. I'm telling you to listen, I'm telling you to hear it from your political leader at the Maximos Mansion, the Managing Director of Maximos SA, as he said here at the Step, the memorable birthplace no longer, a few months ago, who has failed to manage what is crucial for the citizens, the health crisis, the accuracy, the fires, but it gives particular emphasis to closing agreements that damage the Greek public and, in particular, to issues that are very sensitive to us. Look at the essence of our criticism and do not respond in general, saying "You are not patriots, you do not want the strengthening of the Armed Forces". We have proved how patriots we are. So I say hear it from you, for your chief to hear it, so I say it to hear the service actors of the Ministry of National Defence who are handling this case. Last time in the debate in the House, I told you, Mr Panayotopoulos, that I was aware of this, personally. I handled it as Prime Minister in 2019 and I know details, names and addresses. And I am warning you: do not proceed to a contract that is scandalously damaging the Greek public. Leave the past, leave what happened in 2018, in 2019. Look at it now, when we're talking. Actually what you're doing is like wanting to buy a real estate, say, and instead of buying it, give someone twice the value of it to buy it and give it to them after leasing. That's what you're doing. At the moment we are talking about you know very well that the market for ten to twelve new training aircraft from the Air Force costs around EUR 300 million, EUR 322 million. Twelve aircraft of brand new, latest technology. The total cost of support and upgrading will not exceed 700-800 million in 20 years. And you give 2 billion to a company from Israel. With what logic? To buy the aircraft - because it does not - and to give them to us leasing and, in fact, 600 million - about 600 million - in front of the first three years. What's the sense? In other words, in the first three years, the money to be disbursed from the Greek public funds has been enough to buy the aircraft and to support a period of five years - decades - I will say at least the use, support, operating costs, pilots. What's the sense? The total overrun of your choice for the public fund over 20 years exceeds EUR 1 billion. A total of 20 years - I repeat - goes beyond EUR 1 billion, 50 million a year in a 20-year period. Do we have this possibility, this luxury and, indeed, by a government which has reinstated the debt to 210% of the Gross Domestic Product? I won't come here to make comparisons that you might say are comparisons of populism, talk about the hungry people, about the shortcomings in hospitals. Oh, no. I'll say the following. Does the Air Force need these 50 million a year? The country's Armed Forces These 50 million per year in the next 20 years do they need them? Why would we throw them away? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm done, then. Don't think, firstly, not to bring the contract to the House. In itself, this is an abstention to such a crucial issue. You might say here today that I'm talking nonsense to you. I am the former Prime Minister and the Chief of Officerial Response, and I plead with you. I would therefore ask you to bring this issue of the convention to the House, that the House also has an opinion on it and that Members take a decision. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's a question of democracy. And don't hide behind the general framework of a defensive agreement with a friend and allied country. Two. I tell you with sympathy, I have nothing with you. I hardly think you're an honest politician. Don't sign this contract and don't sign it with your mind that the responsibilities behind a CSCE will be hidden. The responsibilities won't be hidden. Because the next time this issue comes to be discussed in the Greek Parliament, it will not come at the initiative of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance or, possibly, other forces as a timely question. It will come to Parliament as a matter of investigating responsibilities as laid down in the Constitution, as provided for in the Constitution, when we are in the face of cases of infidelity, of breaking public money. And don't forget two things. Firstly, that your resignation, Mr Mitsotakis and you, will not be alive in the rule of the place, which today is the arrogance of power. You, too, believe the climate created by the loopholes that have been supporting you for life here, you will rule the place for a decade. Whenever you do elections, you will see the real picture and the real poll. You won't be alive. Secondly, do not forget, we have changed the Constitution and there is no limitation. So I ask you to stand up to the circumstances. The Armed Forces of our country need substantial support, but the money of the Greek taxpayers must be used as the last euro and this arrogance, the unprecedented damage of the Greek government to the cost increase is not something that we as a Qualification and the country's government of tomorrow will leave it this way, because the Armed Forces are suffering and the Greek taxpayer is suffering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Tsipras. We continue with the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Papanastassis. Mr. Papastasis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Treat in the bathtub! Yes, rubbish in the bath has resulted in today's 'coloring', an attempt to identify nonexistent substantial differences between New Democracy and SYRIZA. An agonizing attempt to identify the degraded - I will not say any - your opposition entity, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. You agree on all important issues. You agree on the conversion of the country into a vast American - naval base. You agree on the conversion of Alexandroupolis into a door to strengthen the American naval forces at the Euro-Asian border. You agree on the conversion of Stefanovike, Alexandroupolis, Litohoros, all of Greece into an vastly aggressive American - natobased base. SYRIZA today through the timely questioning process on the substance of the matter is a matter for the New Democracy Government, because the transnational agreement he signed with Israel on the establishment of the International Training Center in Kalamata was more accurate than his own. The rest is meaningless garnish. For SYRIZA, it is obvious that the issue is simply an economic one and does not raise the issue that, through this agreement, it is a central government political choice or at any cost to the people to upgrade strategic cooperation with a murderer state such as the State of Israel. For SYRIZA's political logic, there is no question that this cooperation also bears the stamp of US-National designs in the region, a cooperation that 'grows oil' in the United States of America and the European Union taking back to the Israeli-Israeli constant crime against the Palestinian people. Why did SYRIZA have a topic when it was in the government a few years ago when business with the extreme right, as he calls it today, Netanyahu took off or about the fact that the Government of New Democracy took the thread from where he left it as a government predecessor, the one who had even negotiated with a similar Canadian company? In addition, however, the Government and SYRIZA seem to have shown that, for other urban parties, there is no question of creating a supra-nato air education centre, the ownership of a private, inside and out-of-importing, private Israeli company, ELBIT, which is objectively the dominant element in the philosophy of its operation, will be solely an increase in its profitability, with all the consequences that this has on the education of the Greek people. And yet, all of you here do not have the slightest misgivings to entrust a company with supposedly implant the spirit and power of overcoming human biological limits and self-sacrificing to defend our borders on land, sea and heavens and the sovereign rights of the country. For all of this, all of you! When the government officially handed over all the work of training Greek pilots in the Israeli company, it stressed without shame that the use of such training methods would facilitate cooperation between the two military forces. You're making fun of the people, you're cheating on him consciously and drunken. We have heard you recently, Minister, here in this House in response to a timely question to state in substance apologizing for the surrender of Kalamata to the Israelis that before the signing of the agreement, the time - you refer to the Air Force - ended and its training track was brought to a dead end, after the aircraft were re-engaging again and there was a great remaining air force for the Icarus. Minister, there is no need for anyone to be an expert to know that the duration of an airplane's operational life rather than the end of it is well known from the day one buys it. You knew all this. You knew very well, like your predecessors, the SYRIZA government, when you would know - to use this expression - from educational planes. But it seems that the decision to create the international training centre in Kalamata by means of transnational agreements was already a long-standing decision, designed for NATO personnel. Nor should anyone disorientate the question that exists in SYRIZA's current topical question. He asks: 'Why did the government not examine a direct supply of the necessary air equipment to continue the training of pilots?' Because this question is simply a pretext. It is clear that the decision was already, as I said before, inconsistent with the consent of both governments and is inextricably bound up with the unification of all aspects of the Greek Armed Forces that support US companies. It is the general homogeneity of military equipment, of small and large armed systems, of ammunition, of communications, of staff training and of others. This concerns all NATO countries, not only Greece. This role is played by visits and inspections on the structures of the Armed Forces of the NATO Member States, NATO standardisation agencies, common structures, joint missions and, in particular, a common philosophy of action on the executives of all Member States' Armed Forces. That is why US Ambassador Pyatt with the blessings of government and opposition visits military schools in an attempt to breast-feed the minds of the US. It is a naval attempt to rapidly integrate every national military infrastructure massively and, above all, effectively into criminal naval operational projects wherever they bleed the people of the earth. The government, SYRIZA and the other urban parties have a huge responsibility. Create methodically the conditions to set up, fund hard by the workers' sweat and, at the same time, parade with the cloak of national necessity another military structure cut and sewn to the needs of the naval twilight alliance. The people no longer chew, to use their own expression. The Communist Party of Greece criticises the procedures for the installation and financing of the international training centre in Kalamata, as it has never denounced or obscured state mismanagement. The same attitude, of course, holds the same holds on the remulsion, money laundering, the takeover which is undeniably held, whether as an act or as an intention to act, on large supplies such as supplies of war equipment. And this absolute expression of certainty we have stemmed from the fact that money laundering and seizures under the table are legally inextricably tied to the rot, the barbaric capitalist system that the government and all urban parties are serving. The Greek Government bears enormous political responsibility for these political choices. We have no illusion that this system can be humanised, create conditions for peaceful coexistence of peoples and that under no circumstances will the European Union become a philosopher, change NATO, compromise the profits of exploiters with labour, people's rights as SYRIZA falsifies the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis. Mr Antonis Mylonakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, I have been patient with these 'cohesions' between the two parties which have implemented the same policy. Mr. Panayotopoulos isn't here. Before I begin, however, I would like to say that we must make our cross and thank the Panagia that was saved by the aircraft incident which did not result in a tragedy. And you know why I'm saying it? Because, Minister, this matter must be investigated seriously. Why am I saying it? Because the operator was an expert, he was at the tactical gun school. We send the experienced and those who have been through this school, we know very well the skills of pilots, but we need to see what was to be done. Is the aircraft in itself, its maintenance, or has it been caused by the carpet? It's been done before, Minister, at the airport there. So look at what it is to blame, correct it immediately, because that's where they fly operators who are either the Icarus School in the first stage and in the second stage. At the advanced stage, we have thankfully escaped. Minister, I sincerely say this to you with great sympathy and you know that very well. What was played today embarrasss the Greek Parliament, accuses the New Democracy of SYRIZA and SYRIZA of the New Democracy, of swinging the finger on each other and of talking about patrioticism, patriotism, who is more patriot or patriotic. These are incredible things. We must tell the Greek people the truth. As a Greek Solution, and you know it very well, at least because you keep coming to the armaments committee, it is not people who have the opportunity to see it because it is a secret committee - we have carefully approached all the issues. Whatever programs brought the staff and were programs that directly needed for the Greek Armed Forces, the Greek Solution entered the front and said yes. Two were the ones to which the Greek Solution projected veto. One - and you still haven't brought it, we expect you to bring it - was the upgrade of F-16 Block 50, because we wanted more explanations. You haven't found them yet and you have to find them to bring us the thirty-eight F-16 Block 50 and how much money they will cost. And the second was this, the International Center for Air Education in Kalamata. Our homeland does not need to privatise what it must keep in its hands. Is it possible to privatise our defence industry? SYRIZA got a chance, and then you both deceived ELVO. We sold ELVO out with a huge dowry that could make money and our homeland could benefit. You've been doing the same thing with S.H.I.E.L.D. No matter what happens, the EAV should definitely remain in public, in state control. And now we're going to Kalamata airport. Is it possible to hand over training to individuals? It reminds me of a couple in his home who sits in a house only, children have left, Minister, a hundred twenty square feet and says "I'm tired of washing, I'm tired of ironing, I'm tired of wiping, get a cleaner here all day and a maid." No, there's no need for the Air Force to give them with leasing. For SYRIZA, Mr. Catrugale, is that possible? You guys started this crime because it's a crime. It's not a question of costing 1,200, 300 or 1,800. The question is why private hands should be given, and we should be forced to buy hours from the Israelis. It happened to be the "ELBIT", the Israeli company. It could be Canadian, it could be another company. What for? What was the reason it started? The staff? I know who the inspiration of this project was. I won't say it. Ask yourself, ask the Ministry of Defence, your Ministers, then tell you who was the initiator of this project and why we started this little kitten to hand over the international aviation center to the Israelis today or to the Canadians, etc. The first question we need to answer and respond easily: does it need an air centre, which could also be an international air-training centre for our pilots in Kalamata? Yeah. Can the Air Force handle it? Sure. You know, when we had this conversation that we put on the veto, we sat with the President of the Greek Solution, Minister, Mr Velopoulos, and we were very concerned about this issue. We even spoke with Leonardo on the M -346. The cost of each aircraft does not exceed at the moment we speak, three to four months ago, does not exceed EUR 24 to 25 million. So why not buy? And because you're going to tell me about the sudden death, but here's the sudden death, Minister, we had the torpedoes. We did not have torpedoes, we did not have TOW, and you saw what effort was made by the Committee on Equipment and by the staff and the glory of the goddess we are starting to come somehow to regularity. Don't talk about sudden death. There are solutions for everything. Listen, first, we wanted to order aircraft from 2017. We could have ordered from Leonardo the M -346 and today they would be here. Secondly, has the SYRIZA government done nothing because he wanted to give it to individuals? Since you were here if you were to say, as we told you, that we could, by ourselves, build the center from the beginning, then, from the order until our first purchased to use the leasing for some aircraft that we would take from Leonardo for two years, for three years until we got ours. What is the point of giving individuals the training of our pilots? And you know very well that pilots are a little selfish and very proud. We don't want it. We do not like to be trained by the one who we consider to be inferior to us. The Greek operators have proved - and in the last ten years, it is not today - that not in Europe, but throughout the world, together with the Americans and the English, we are one of the first powers, and we are one of the best operators and engineers. And now we're going to deliver these to who? The Israelis. And why the Israelis, not the Israelis alone, could have been the Canadians who want to be. Why are the privates coming? For their mother's soul? No, so they're coming to win. So we're gonna lose. So we're gonna give them 2 billion, which isn't gonna be 2 billion, Minister. You know very well that tomorrow the connection may change. Maybe Icaron School takes over once and for all today and we need more pilots, so we need to buy more hours than we've been given. So the price will be much higher. For the fuel, 6,144 you said, bookings, these are not included in it. The cost will exceed EUR 2.5 billion. That's for sure. Of course you won't be a minister then. But there is no need for the President of SYRIZA to come here and watch a heated blackmail in order not to sign this convention. This contract must not be signed. We've told you from the start. When something is said by the Greek Solution, you know it's studied, we don't say it in the air. And we have called since ‘Don't do that, don't bring the deal. Let's go, we'll fix it up and become international." You say foreign pilots from Arab countries, Kuwait, Qatar, from Saudi Arabia, will come from Qatar. And now we have foreign pilots, Minister, at the Icaron School, and now we're training foreign pilots. Then, when it becomes an international centre to build it with appropriate facilities, to get the simulators, the simulators that are needed, to get the new aircraft, which are cheap at the moment. And until they do, I'm telling you, the solution is, let's take leasing two - three years. Aircraft, I mean, not the training to deliver it all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u160	Finish, Mr. Mylonakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u161	I shall conclude, Mr President. Are we to hand over to an Israeli school director, to a Israeli centre commander or anything else? I'm not saying it, but that's the way it is. And who will be the instructors? What for? So there's no reason. The Greek Solution if you would like to stop this crime. It's a crime. It will not come to you either personally or in our homeland and not much more in the Air Force. And another thing, Minister, because I like you, you know that very well, you are a man you are listening to. Don't be a king many times. You have become the king's king before defending the Greek-American agreement. There are vulnerabilities there too. Don't be king-in-law of Stoltenberg's king. You went to Estonia, defended NATO and put it with Russia. You're causing us a problem at the Department of Foreign Affairs, too. Don't do that. And I'm saying it for you, I'm not saying it for me. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u162	Now we're going to the questioner's second language. I call the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister in his place gave me the honour to refer to a comment I had made on the file he had reached my office in 2017. The comment, therefore, states: "For the procurement of a topic, it is proposed to speed up the procedures for the preparation and submission of the respective activation file in accordance with the existing legislation and the national defence planning circular". Two resignations: You are two and a half years Minister. You know that this comment says "become specific and do not describe the need but describe us in a specific way the solution". That meant that the whole file goes back to the services and reconstructed. And this file, and with the signature with Mr. Kammenos as his comment, went back and came back in 2019 again. That's clean. But be careful now with something else, the second one. I, in order to get this comment that I made at the time, took ten minutes. A car, to leave the FAO or the Ministry and come to the House, needs under these weather conditions not more than fifteen to twenty minutes. The convention could be here and you could call the perpetrators of each party and say to them: 'Let the convention. Take a first look at her, here's my lieutenant." Unless your lieutenant has the contract in his file. You say 'no' to me. I believe you. So don't tell us "you'll see the contract and make it leaf and feather." A year we've been asking for the contract, and not the leaf, we haven't seen the feather. And, really, I ask you: have you signed the contract? Answer me a node. You or the GAAP representative? Or is Israel's ELBIT DG? Or is Mr. Mitsotakis' signature with Mr. Netanyahu in the defensive agreement? What is this so secret in this convention that cannot come to the Greek Parliament at a budgetary cost of almost 2 billion? You said it: 1,850,000. And if you put the fuel in, the premiums, 6%, 4% and the rest, that's gonna be a lot more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u164	He's inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u165	Well, now you're saying other things. You're telling me: "It's inside." It's not. Bring the contract to see if it is. You yourself said in your position in December 2020 that they are not. Will you now tell us it's the fuel in it? Secondly, is it possible to come here and tell us inaccurate? Wasn't there a suggestion? Everyone had submitted a proposal. LOCKHEED MARTIN had put forward a proposal. BAE had submitted a proposal. The CAE had submitted a proposal. A proposal was put forward by the 'BOEING'. Everybody! If you want, let me read them to you. You should have been informed. LOCKHEED MARTIN had submitted a proposal of USD 560,000 for ten years. CAE 1,822,000,000 and another 1,600,000. Both rejected. One because he wasn't full and another because she was extremely expensive. And you come and tell us: Why didn't you do it? Well, wasn't there anyone to tell you this? Look, the only truth is that from 2010 to 2018 the country was not under international surveillance financially but in memoranda. In these memoranda, budgetary control provided 500 million per year for equipment and maintenance programmes, 600 million for operating costs, i.e. equal boats and equal waters. But it always happens in Greece. When they are the financially narrow, the first to pay for it is the Armed Forces, the Ministry of National Defence. I remember stories that I have heard that the Deputy Minister or the State Secretary was calling the financial manager and saying 'it cut 500 million'. And the other one said to him "we can't do it." I mean, in the government of Samara - Venizelos. He said: “I am not talking about this. Cut them out." By 38.5%, the salaries of the Armed Forces were reduced during the memoranda. 38.5%! I've mentioned it here in the House before. So I say to you that there were proposals, which were not accepted, they were not profitable. And, as my colleagues have shown, there is a gap, a huge economic gap, amounting to one billion. Firstly, you must justify this, and secondly, you must compare the proposal that the Air Force may do so - alas - with the proposal to give it to someone else to do so. Previously, Mr. Mylonakis spoke and you moved your head by saying that the curator will not be an Israeli. Am I wrong?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u166	No, the whole training will be...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u167	It'll be Greek. Watch out for what you're telling us now. We will have a curriculum in Greek, instructors Greek, facilities in Greek, the site will be Greek, and it will be the management - because this is what this is all about - and we will give the twenty-five plus ten planes a total of 2 billion! Go out and say that phrase the way I say it to the Greek people! He will tell you: there is something rotten, my dear Minister, in the kingdom - I cannot say 'Danimaria' - something rotten. That is why Alexis Tsipras, the President of SYRIZA, told you that, when this matter is discussed again, it will not be discussed as a topical question but under another parliamentary procedure. So, in order to put things in place, after you promised, call the officers responsible for the Ministry of National Defence of all opposition parties next week. Present the contract to them. Give answers, so we can see and see. I, you know, really think that you, too, will first see what this is about and what we should do. If you do not, whatever you say today, no matter how many times you travel back in time or go forward in time or tell us that we are eighteen months before the sudden death in front, while you are two and a half years Minister back, it is simply not the case. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, too, Mr. Vitsa. Now, because I see you here, although it's exhausted from what I see the time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u169	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u170	Look, let me tell you. I will give you the time, but I would ask you three minutes to be three minutes, because as the President-in-Office writes before, you have spoken eight and twenty. You were entitled five minutes. Plus three, you spoke eight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u171	I think I spoke seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u172	Mr. Tsipras spoke nine and fifteen. Only Mr. Katrugalos was almost absolute in his protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u173	Mr President, I will not go against this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u174	I'll give them three minutes, because they'll be there. I would ask you, however, to respect them. That's all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u175	We're not against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u176	You have the floor, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u177	The Minister has exceeded the time of all three speeches - firstly, secondly, thirdly - seven minutes throughout the given year. So we have another understanding. I am not asking for any secondary and tritology to speak. Alas. If you want, let the time be measured by now. Minister, you really hit us today. Because you have been indicting a number of reasonable arguments on some of the issues you wanted to make, but it is not difficult to admit that you have approached them all or almost all with half the truths, which means concealing the overall and real truth. And that's something I have an explanation for. And all the explanation is condensed on what Dimitris Vitsas said a moment ago and earlier on, but also with great emphasis, our parliamentary representative, Yiannis Ragus, remained on this. Why don't you bring in the deal? The claim that a procedure leading up to the JRC is envisaged is not an argument. There is no legislative provision that prohibits you from bringing the agreement to Parliament and when we say in the House, we mean in plenary. And what Dimitris Vitsas said, the representatives of the parties and what you said, perhaps, in the Committee on Equipment and whatever else is useful, but a public debate with responsibility for the parties towards such an agreement cannot be held unless it comes to Parliament. The question is why not come? It's a leasing deal. Is that something else? Can this agreement have secrets setting out the country's strategic and national interests? We're talking about training. I cannot imagine that this agreement can be secret, only if what I started my first speech, is'something really is happening here, something secret'. There is no argument that the agreement should not come to Parliament, except a plea of guilt. And it fully vindicates us, and the President and all of us! Minister, do not take such a responsibility. You said that the then commander of the IAEA went to Israel and opened the debate. Then you went and proceed. We all know very well that the agreement was concluded in person by Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Netanyahu. What included in it? And what exactly did it take to raise the spiral in this choice? It can't be a secret, and you can't take responsibility for it. You are honoured that you are brave and since you have this position you are not morally hiding, but we all know that you have not signed this agreement, nor have you been inspired by it. There cannot be a threat of sudden death, and we all know that there are transitional possibilities until the right solution is given. Dimitris Vitsas just before, with the answer he gave you about the "acceleration" you invoked, said it all. Half the truth that hides the whole truth! It is guilty of a contract, and that is what we will insist on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u178	The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr George Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Mr President. Very soon, three issues. First of all, we have not been wiser than the Minister's position. However, we need to note a difference in relation to what we have known, under the responsibility of the Minister, because since we have learned the one billion eight hundred and fifty, which was about five hundred million different from what was announced in the Committee on Equipment, the Minister's answer - not once and twice - is more - is that this difference is due to the indexation. Today, then, we have learned - and not only there - that the 300 million that I myself spoke about, beforehand, for a hat, it seems that it is due to a 200 million increase in net price from about 1,375 to 1,550 and another 100 over-adjusted indexation. You said, Minister, that, all right, with 2.65 says, I don't suppose you have a problem. We've got a problem. Since 1,9 that could be, 2,65 means 100 million more. It's probably not a small amount. But here there is another huge issue. If the net price increased by 200 million, this makes it even more necessary to make it here in Greece. It's so simple. In other words, if there was a 1,375, 1,550 issue, it makes it extremely necessary to go to another option. Second matter. You're a politician. That keeps a certain level and that's what you're doing today, but on the subject of content it was probably not your best day. You said many times, that we were talking about leasing too. All right, I think, you're taking advantage of the ignorance of the world that's watching us and presenting Members for the very simple thing. It's completely different I get the airplanes and some other things with leasing, either because I don't have the money or because it's best served - either - or - and it's another thing I do the whole air-leasing center to me. And because you said the argument that most countries do this, it's a fake. Most of the countries you have said may exploit the leasing process, not give the aviation center to another company and even foreign. Tell me the examples, so we can find them. So we don't go to what kind of contracts they're doing. On this trik, too, in confusion - because it is a question of confusion - you have also said many times that we have rejected the market. We probably rejected the fact that we, the market, did indeed reject it because we did not have money. And we say it clearly, we had no money, which is why we were gearing to leasing. But we never rejected it, doing it here in Greece, and you let it be understood that we, as early as 2017, have rejected the means of doing with our own, even by leasing, the means of flying. And because God loves the thief, but also loves the householder, that we have rejected it in 2019 in the Defence Council - and you said this this year in February 2021 - in reply to a question you yourself say that three issues have been raised. Firstly, negotiations with the Canadians should continue. It is true, we rejected them, we never accepted what the Canadians and others were saying. Secondly, we should ask the Prime Minister to increase the defence budget. True. And thirdly, you, yourself, say it - to consider further solutions, to make the aviation centre on our own. January 2019 from Kammenos, before Apostolakis changes. How did we reject this solution? Why would you sit down and say that? In any way, either by buying aircraft, or by leasing because we didn't have money. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u180	And we thank Mr. Tsipras. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Katrugalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, we all consider you to be a serious man, a sincere man. That is why I was impressed by the development of the debate. Many of those - I would say, almost the whole - who follow this debate and have no special knowledge, would be surprised because it seems that we are not talking about the interpretation of the facts, but all these facts are questioned. As I said before, SYRIZA's colleagues, in this area half the truths are worse than lies. For this reason, I will specify my two main questions to you, precisely so that they can understand something and those who are not entirely armaments experts. The main criticism, as you have heard from previous colleagues, was why was it necessary to give a third party, a private person, apart from the Greek Air Force, the training of pilots? The main issue is not leasing or the market in aircraft as such, because this is a little tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons of tons The main question is, why did we think it would be better for Greek aviation to have these as ownership - to be entrusted to third parties? In the argument that “there will be dependency on third parties, that others will have access to the Pilate Register” you replied: “Where do you see dependency? Director of Education will be Greek, instructors will be Greek". But then, obviously, the question is what Mr Vitsas and Mr Dritsa have already asked you before: Why should we give 1 billion to a private company for something that will be done on Greek territory by Greek pilots, with a Greek commander? What is the additional value of the Israeli company? The second question is even simpler. You said that you would consider bringing the contract and putting it into consideration in the Procurement Committee. You may do so, in order to enjoy the reasonable suspicions we have about, for example, the contribution of the Prime Minister to how much he has replaced the institutions of the Armed Forces. But even if you do, do you think the problem is cured? Is it not quite obvious that the House should be informed not after a holiday when the convention has already been concluded, but before that is concluded? What is the point of the debate that will take place in the Committee on Equipment on a fait accompli? I think these questions, as I have just said, are the ones that have been reasonably captured by those who are following us. And I repeat, precisely because I consider you to be a serious and honest man, that I would like a straightforward response to them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u182	And we thank Mr. Katrugalo. She has asked me for the floor for a minute, although she had taken more time in her prototype, Mrs. Jackres. Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for two minutes via Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Because Mr. Panagiotopoulos referred personally to my intervention, I like it, Mr. President...(doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...(doesn't sound because of a bad connection) because I told you that after this terrible market we can easily describe you as an admirer and imitator of the works and days of Aki Tsohatopoulos. You yourself also admitted that you had a competitive proposal from a Canadian company for the same project, amounting to over 1 billion, i.e. 800 million less. In any case, our proposal, as analysed by my fellow Members, on SYRIZA days, was 1 billion lower. This, Mr Panayotopoulos, how can the Greek people characterize it, stupidity or corruption? Or are you going again to buy international protection? Because this policy, Mr Panayotopoulos, is absolutely a failure, never worked for Greece. They took the armament program money, all of us leaving us in the cold. If you really want to shield Greece, make sure you buy a lot of good weapons. Everything else is either stupidity or corruption and in any case harm the country. So leave political lions and patriots, because some who went beyond your post and were then taken to prison - and it is not just one - had bags of positions like yours today, namely statements of national pride and their pocket full of theirs behind. So leave them smart to us here. And because you also gladly admitted that it is not enough you did not bring the contract to the House to see it, but you claimed that you might even bring it to the future at some point, so we tell you to bring the leasing contract to the House to see it now and give the Canadians' competitive bid and let the Greek people judge. You don't get F-16, Mr. Panayotopoulos, who sells only one, educational planes you want to get that many produce. So learn to make international competitions and international consultations to buy armaments, so that everyone who sells them can come and choose the best and most advantageous offer for the country. Otherwise, there is, as I have already said, stupidity or corruption. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u184	The European Parliamentary Representative will now be given the floor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u185	Isn't the Minister going to be a second-guesser?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u186	The Minister will close. Do you want to speak, Minister, and then answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u187	Let me speak, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u188	Unless Mr Ragus speaks now, then the Minister, then again Mr Raguss, and the Minister closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u189	I can do that, too. Would you like to speak, Mr. Ragossi?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u190	The Minister must speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u191	You will listen to the Minister, who will close later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u192	After what I'm about to say, it'll probably close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u193	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. There are fundamental misunderstandings about what has been said, although I think that what I have been explaining for forty minutes has been very clear. What offer better than the Canadians? The Israeli company was chosen because, in the GFCF crisis, it made the best offer in terms of technical and economic conditions and has therefore been selected. The Canadian bid started in 1.9 billion, without reservations, in 2019, when the competition emerged and one company began to submit improved offers and the Israeli company was finally selected. So I cannot understand what Mrs Jackson really says when she says to me: 'Select the Canadians, they were better'. I don't really understand it and talk about stupidity, etc.- Oh, my God! But there are basic misunderstandings. I figured out what's going on here. The refuge in the welcoming scandal - I have heard the hidden threats and direct threats, I have heard the future - with many ambiguities, a lot of mud in the fan and the general abstention that equipment hides scandals and therefore be careful what you are going to do. I've said it before. Inactivity in armaments is not criminalised in that country, the action is criminalised. She's controlled, she's inherited. I have chosen the action, because I understand that it is what needs to be done. And I am not talking about either national duty or patriotism. You don't invoke patriotism in a position of fifteen minutes in Parliament, patriotism, invoke it by your action... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...and not by omission to act and solve urgent problems, which lead to sudden death, if it passes space and nothing happens. That's what I told you. At the end, in the second half of 2023, our training is over. You know it since 2017, in 2018, in 2019. We're talking about it, we're discussing it again, we're speeding up, but we're asking for the file to go back and we're doing nothing. We're considering proposals. Yes, there were proposals, but, Mr Ragosisi, the dilemma on which the previous military and political leadership has expressed itself was very specific. When the matter was raised to buy for ourselves or go on a loan for the jets, the staff decided to the military and then to the political leadership that the most economically advantageous solution was to go on a financial lease and not buy. From there on, the second phase begins. That was the dilemma. So, I don't contradict later. Yes, it was your decision to go on a lease, so I don't understand why the dorm now is not buying. Because you, through the political and military leadership at that time, have decided that it is more costly to go on a loan. That's it, let's go down. With whom, guys? With Candide? With the "LOCKHEED" he offered another aircraft? With the CAE? There were some proposals, yes, but not for purchase, for leasing, and that is where the evaluation of the proposals begins. For several reasons it was considered that they did not meet the criteria that the Air Force set and the Canadian proposal was also considered to be too precise. Fine, very well, 1.9 was, without reservations and a 3% indexation, which you know was on the Canadian proposal. That is, a total of 2.7 billion, as I calculated. In the process, the Israeli company entered the game of bid. The bids began to fall, and the Air Force finally decided to assess in purely technical and economic terms. I've been analyzing them very extensively, I think. Even for the GBT, the Ground Base Training, the terrestrial computer training, I analyzed what was the difference. They gave twenty-five computers for the ground partial training of the Icars, the others gave nothing, because perhaps along the way they considered "you know, they will also need computers and we need to charge something more". That's the possibility of it. Anyway, they didn't give anything. The Israelis were very specific in both flight times and individual other benefits. The Honourable President of SYRIZA, who has, of course, honoured me to declare me honest, but who will suffer the suffering of the thorough examination by the institutions which are provided for, has made this wrong assumption. It's not just about buying the jets. This is not the creation of the international training centre. The market from the company that's getting the job, the Israeli, with a financial lease to us in the Air Force, of the ten new jets is a piece. It is also the construction of the infrastructure. It is also the services provided within twenty-two years. All this, along with the indexation and bookings, amounts to the amount we are discussing today, which is different from the amount of the suggestion in the committee's debate then in December of '20s. But it was assumed that there would be a negotiating authority until the terms of indexation were invoked, which after negotiation fell to 2.65% and that there would also be reservations. That was on the offer. You know that. In January 2019, I repeat it, I read it out. The SAM then, i.e. Panos Kammenos Minister for National Defence, Panagiotis Riga Deputy, Maria Kollia - Tsarouha State Secretary, Admiral Apostolakis Chief of HNDGS, Lt-Gen Stefanis GES, Vice-Admiral Tsunis General GEN and Lt-Gen Christos Christodoulou Head of GEA, decides: Firstly, the continuation of negotiations and actions planned for the establishment of the International Training Centre in Kalamata with a financial leasing agreement by means of a transnational agreement with the Government of Canada. He showed the way. Then there was an offer. The negotiations would start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u195	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u196	I'll say it all, don't rush. Secondly, the briefing of the Prime Minister and the Ministry of Finance of the additional annual financial requirement. I understand that, because it would take money to close the Canadians, let's reinforce the budget. I accept that there was a financial programme. Third, the investigation of the other bids by the Air Force on the path of leasing, not another route such as the market, etc. That's it, I said it. Another proposal. So your government's S.A.M. has ruled. The target was set as of 2017. To implement the operational objective, due to the fact that the project is complex and multidimensional - as I told you, it is not just jets - the IMPY was drafted, the study of an integrated proposal for a sub-programme by the Air Force, approved by both the Supreme Air Council and the SGP and the SGP, entitled ‘Creating an International Training Centre in the 120 APRC’. It's all about it, and that's something that happened, as I told you, at that time, when you were in things. We continued on this road. Explore the proposal, despite what you said at the time, a financial lease? Isn't that a contradiction? We have just been up there, and we have just negotiated the level of the final proposal. Canada started from 1.9 bn. without reservations and indexation. He threw the prices down the road. The Israelis are here, too. It was chosen by the PA for technical and economic reasons that this proposal of the Israelis and that is the whole truth, there is nothing to hide. The case of the supply of a new teacher for the replacement of T2 was rejected as not profitable. It is more expensive to buy it on our own and to support it for twenty-two years. That's the truth. That's it. That's what the Air Force decided, anyway, we followed this suggestion. We didn't make our own calculations for T2. T6 is another case. The upgrading was decided on the basis of the contract.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u197	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u198	Oh, no. The market for a new jet is about the jets we investigated at the time. That's all. T2 could not be bought new.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u199	I don't care. Don't answer. It's just a contradiction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u200	But don't you get it? There was no way of buying a new T2. T2s are running out. It's already over, they don't know, so I'll get a little bit smarter. This proposal has therefore been selected. As far as the rate is concerned, it is sufficient to say that in FYROM flight training the price difference '19 to '20 is about 2.3% higher. Therefore, I think it is reasonable to estimate that in a 20-two-year contract an indexation of 2.65% is not absurd and certainly does not hide hats in price. Now, from that point on, the President of Officerial Representation insisted that our proposal exists. You thought the most advantageous proposal was the leasing. How can I say it? That's your proposal. That's what we're up to. Finally, I would like to read, because I have heard about education in a number of respects, and I insist that the base can be upgraded with an overall investment in all infrastructures, land, logistics, T6 and the purchase of new jets to finally replace the T2 that ends, however, the training will remain in Greek hands. There is the strategic convergence with Israel. It's not strategic and geopolitical. I guess that's not how the investment in Kalamata has an abstract character, it's very specific. There is an air force, which is one of the best in the world and is even supported as it is supported and now associated, which is closer to us, bound up with our own aviation. And that, of course, has an added value which is not counted in money. But trainers are Greeks, all the educational work. He said then in December of '20s in the Committee on Military Affairs the Chief of Defence and I read: 'What I want to say is that now with this sub-programme, the Leasing, we achieve for twenty-year continuous uninterrupted training, while when we have the responsibility for maintenance - we are talking only about the maintenance of these aircraft - we need every four years to run Follow - on Support sub-programme with price increases due to the change in course'. I've said it in the prototype. Twenty-two years. Below it says: "From there on, the training of the Icars and Humanities will be carried out by Greek instructors, who will also undergo training. And every year within these hours that our company gives us, we have predicted a number of trainers who will also be trained for this amount of hours and we have earned out what is the requirement for every year of training trainers and trainees together. You understand, a new jet jet has a demand for trainers' training as well. It's not insane. So there will be no foreign instructor through the sub-programme. ‘Follow - on Support’ will be maintained by a particular company with continuous and uninterrupted operation. That's what Lieutenant George Lumis said to explain some issues about the contract. Therefore, you are rightly asking to see the contract. You have the right. You know that there is no obligation for this convention to pass through the voting procedure in plenary because it has already been drawn up. After all, Mr Katrugalos was right to say that this is a fait accompli. But the right to information, so that you can finally see what is hidden and if anything rotten is hidden, as you have said - I want to believe - you have it. We will therefore ensure that this is done. Is someone coming to the ministry? Will we bring it to the Committee on Equipment, to consider it thoroughly? That's not a problem. Isn't that what you want to see? That's what it's all about. Find that there is nothing strange or epilepsy. To save myself, too, from the threat that I have had from today, that I will be involved in examinations which have been announced today. They've been announced! Indeed, very briefly, in Mr Tsipras's political forecasts and assessments. Because I dare to act and act where we have been studying it for many years, reverting it, reversing it, stealing it a little longer, talking about it a little longer, but we have not! We didn't do it! You forsake me. Well, I'm indebted, too. Why didn't we do it all these years? Were we afraid? I wasn't scared. But jet time is over. Eighteen months. And you knew that since 2017. The air force knew about it earlier. But you talked about it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u201	Minister, how many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u202	How many years?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u203	Since when could it have happened?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u204	Don't interrupt, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u205	But there's a process, dear Mr. Drizza. There's a process. Negotiations are on. Interestingly expressed. Tenders began to fall. As magically, from 1.9 without reservations and honors, they fell to 1,250 since the Israelis came.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u206	There it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u207	For twenty years, though. What's "it" like? Now you've discovered the sea bass. 1,250 to 20 is equal to 62,7. 1,375 by 22 equals 62,5 to above benefits and economically advantageous to absolute numbers. It's math. I'm not a mathematician. Isn't that right? That's what the Air Force appreciated. The staff analysed the economic and technical conditions and said that for alpha, beta, gamma, delta, for that reason this proposal is more of an interest to the other, without calculating the convergence strategy with Israel, etc. It was not the work of staff who analysed technical terms. That's all. But we tried to solve it, not refer it back. Explore other offers, go for money, see what happens with the Canadians, but result'refer to the future'. We thought there was no future in this story. The Air Force, I assure you, does not feel insulted, but rejoices about it, as it rejoices for the Mirages, for Viper and for the Rafahs. For many things the Air Force has been glad of these days. And if we solve, with the good and the question of transporters, we did not pull the rope, giving Israel the work yet, because we are trying to find the best possible solution within the scope of the ODA - to open up and close this parentheses as well. But, really, we're really torturing our minds what we're going to do. For C-27, for which there was agreement with the Italian, which will support it, there things go on another better path. But, in any case, we must resolve the problems and, at the same time, ensure - and this is very important, you are absolutely right - that this will be done transparently, without any suspicion of breaking down public money, and - to say so - with a spread of responsibility, with direct or more discreet threats to the person who has signed it, to the person who has decided, to the person who has acted and did not act. That's all. So you will certainly have the right to consider the wing of the contract. That's what I said, Mr. Ragosi. You forgot. I did not say'maybe'. I said 'leaf wing'. I think that is - as our Parliamentary representative, Mr Nicos Vroutz, has said - very clear in terms of mood or predisposition. So you'll have the right to see the contract. But this has to go ahead. Already in Kalamata, works are being done. Shall we go and tell them "Tomorrow they've been frozen for a few more months"? Is that what you want?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u208	Yeah. To get away with it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u209	To get away with? Okay. Looks like I'm not gonna get away with it, so I'm gonna have to freeze what's going on in the Armed Forces after all. What can we do? I did not talk about patriotism or anything today. And in Estonia, Mr Mylonakis, because you also raised the issue, I said that a Russia that feels very stricken, very insecure, because of NATO's expansion, is a Russia that we do not want to have. Therefore, we must keep the communication channel with Russia, through the well-known dual communication channel method, dual - track. Two routes of communication with Russia: One by deterrent and one by dialogue. I, if I were Russian, would deplore this position of a NATO member-state minister. You guys give up on me, 'cause you obviously didn't understand what I said. See what I said and interpret it, then. And I said that there in the Baltic, where the countries, the Baltic republics, are entitled to feel - to say this - very hot in the breath of the great neighbour to the east. But that's the distortions. I'm coming back. We have decided to move forward and act. The problem couldn't wait any longer. We moved on to the solution that you chose, on the road you carved, that of the leasing. The fact that you come now and tell us that we could do it by buying, forgive me, but when you had to say so from responsibility, from power, you said "we choose the leasing". Today you come and tell us, however, that we should buy. Who's contradicting? In any case, this is the way we decided to keep. You have every right to find out more about the sub-contractors. But, I think we should, if we all leave here in a sense, recognize what the Air Force has been calling 'principal service' for many years, with immediate dramatic consequences for the immediate future of the Air Force. From there on, whether we act or choose not to do anything and leave it in the future. We were clean in our choice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u210	And we thank the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panagiotopoulos. Please take care of the Step so that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Mr.Ioannis Ragussis - can speak. Mr Ragossi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Panayotopoulos, the action is not criminalised. What is criminalized is the opacity and dispersal of public money. So since we agree - since you said that this is right - I think that no one needs to illuminate the following reality: If one day, Mr Panayotopoulos, a prosecutor calls you on this case and you go and tell him what happened with the decisions of the previous government, some years ago and on that basis you can justify what you have chosen, I think you will have decided to commit suicide criminally. Everyone who listens to us, Mr Panayotopoulos, knows a simple truth. That if anyone can go to buy a car, a real estate, an object alone and doesn't do it, but decides, while he can buy it himself, he has access, no one has booked him the way to buy an object, a property, to go through a broker, to pay commission, Mr. Panayotopoulos. And that will damage the Greek public in this case. Because we're talking about the Greek state. These aircraft he will buy will have - to use the right verb - our country through this contract with the Israeli company is Israeli? Are these planes Israeli, these jets? Answer. It's not Israeli. So, what do we have to do to buy Italian jet-type jet aircraft with an Israeli broker? Have the Italians forbid us to go directly to buy them from them? Answer: No. Have we said, claimed, or is it forbidden to go directly as Greek State to acquire them from the Italians by leasing? Also, no. Can't we go with leasing buy these aircraft directly from the Italians? Why would he broke into an Israeli company, Mr. Panayotopoulos? That's what the D.A. will ask you. And the prosecutor, Mr. Panayotopoulos, will make a simple calculation, that if we were to go alone to get Italian - I repeat - jet on a financial leasing fee! - That would cost 10 euros. Going through the Israelis, this will cost the Greek public 1 billion more, so we're taking it off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u212	The Italians are selling with leasing?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u213	Of course, they're selling with leasing! Did anyone tell you they're not selling with leasing? Of course, they're selling with leasing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u214	Ask them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u215	Watch out, or you don't know what leasing is, or you're really mocking us! Now, don't do it! Leasing know what it is?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u216	I know! Do you know?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u217	It's a loan. Leasing is a form of loan.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u218	If I want to sell you with leasing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u219	So, you can go buy, get whatever you want with leasing, with a loan, or cash.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u220	If I want to sell you with leasing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u221	Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u222	I do not mind, Mr President, because I am given the opportunity to reiterate our cause.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u223	It's okay with me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u224	What you need to understand, Mr President, is that what emerges here is that while we could get these jets from the Italians directly as a Greek state, we go and give the deal, so the money, so the supply to the mediator who is this Israeli company. That raises the cost, that damages the Greek public, and that's what counts as follows, not what happened then, or not what happened, that you also falsified, Mr. Panayotopoulos, right? Because Mr Tsipras has asked you to read the third point of the decision you referred to and says very clearly the third point of looking at the solutions for domestic movement, namely the acquisition of this whole centre with domestic forces.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u225	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, I'll read it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u226	Read it again. Also, Mr Panayotopoulos, we said two things, we didn't just say one. One was that you should give this House's knowledge of the convention and I honestly have to tell you that we are very pleased. We did not expect this objective to be achieved today, Mr Panayotopoulos, to oblige you to give the parties this convention, because we had asked you on several occasions to do so in the Committee on Arms and you did not come here when we prepared ourselves as a parliamentary group, we said that if we succeed in giving the contract into consideration, this will in itself be a very great victory. But we also told you a second thing, and the Chief of Officer's Representation told you that it is not just to see the contract, Mr. Panayotopoulos. It is that if the contract is the way we have proved, as we have established, and as you have made it even worse - I told you before - it is not just the question of seeing the contract, it is not the question of not moving forward, Mr Panayotopoulos. Because in this case with mathematical accuracy it is not for anyone who has signed it from the suffering of the control of this convention by Greek justice, as provided for in the Constitution by parliamentary procedures and so on. In order not to exceed my time - and anyway everything has been said, primarily by the mouth of Alexis Tsipras, the President of the SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance, I think, Mr Panayotopoulos, that it has been proved today in a very indisputable way and in a way that has actually confirmed our objections, that there is a very serious case of the break-up of public money here. Our opinion is that in the next few days you will be able to read carefully what the President of the SYRIZA has said to you - a Progressive Alliance and what all my fellow Members have said to you and indeed consider, can you at the last minute save what is being saved from the point of view of both the political leadership and the leadership of the government and the service actors, which you have repeatedly taken them off to central. Because I tell you again, Mr Panayotopoulos, the prosecutors - and you know that well - do not hamper arguments at this level, which are also a distortion of reality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u228	Mr President, if I am right, can I take the floor to help this debate?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u229	No, the Minister will close. Here, Minister, you have the floor to close today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u230	I will be good and I will not say that your current position is that this contract should not be implemented because it went to one particular company and not to another. Because you have now proved that you do not want the contract to be implemented, not to see it and to be convinced or not to be convinced. You are already convinced that the contract is superficial and should not be implemented. I mean, we shouldn't have the Israeli company come over to build Kalamata, should we? So that is where you are going, this work should not go to the Israelis, because there are superficial points in the convention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u231	Do not lose 1 billion of the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u232	But you'll see her. Do you expect, even to a lesser extent, that this contract can ultimately be clean and your fears and your suspicions will be fun and that the increases will be the ones we have explained, the reservations and the indexation, which would in any case take place, any company that would take the job, and most likely the amount would still be increased, given that the other side would ask for a higher percentage indexation? Hold on a little butt! So I think we have explained very well what happened here. In its decisions, the CCIPB asked for further tenders to be examined, on the chosen path of the leasing period, on your own days. It emerged from the Air Force itself that doing it on our own was considered financially inconsistent. It has been estimated that the annual cost of Kalamata, if we were to go alone and buy everything that needs to be bought, not only the ten jets, but to upgrade all twenty-five helmets of the forty-five we have - at the moment, they fly about eight - to get the new simulators for helicals, for jets and the remaining equipment and maintenance costs, over a period of 20 years would have a operating cost greater than that which arose after the acceptance of the "ELBIT" proposal. And that, if you wish, is all to prove it to you by number, there is no way, we will not deny it anyway. But, please, do not be discounted by prosecutors and judges from now on, that is not good. It's like you're sending me a very specific warning not to execute this contract, not to go this job where it went. Anyone with their minds can put a lot on, right? Because here these big jobs, these big projects hide from the back of great conflicts of interest and the one who chooses must do so very carefully. Of course I too, of course, and everyone. And many choose or choose to transfer the choice to the bells. As the people say, “Why should I put my head in the dorva? Put it down. Someone else will be found to make the decision." I told you I didn't do that. And I didn't do it the first time. And you remember, Mr. Vitsa, because we talked about the F-16. I told you then that if anyone hit my door in the future, I'd rather deal with some exam in the future and lose my sleep for that reason than lose my sleep because I was in that honorary position and I didn't do anything, because I was afraid that someone would control me in the future! This is a personal choice and I take responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u233	We didn't know about the program! You didn't say anything...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u234	...and I come to you and tell you everything will be checked out. Everything will be checked, both contracts and everything! And thank God, so far nothing has happened and nothing has happened!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u235	We agree that both act and omission are controlled!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u236	You're welcome to do your audit work. However, do not do so in terms of advance notice of persecution and intimidation of officials responsible for these major decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Minister. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate under No 1/8-10-2021 on the subject was completed: 'Why did you sign up with a provocative increase in costs - even compared to your initial calculations - the Agreement on the International Civil Aviation Education Centre in Kalamata'. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-19-S1-commons.u238	With the consent of the House at 16.16 p.m., the sitting on Monday, November 22, 2021, at 11.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, parliamentary scrutiny: a) a debate on a pre-dated order, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of Parliament, at the initiative of the Chief of Staff of the Vice-President and President of the Parliamentary Group "SYRIZA - PREPARATION" Mr Alexis Tsipras, on a matter of urgency and the absence of a political will on the part of the Government to protect households and businesses, in accordance with the Special Daily Order which has been distributed to you and b) a debate on topical questions at 17:00. Have a good weekend, always in health.
