ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the supplementary agenda of LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Institutional framework of teleworking, provisions on public sector human resources and other arrangements of the Ministry of Interior'. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 3 June 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform, in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place in a combination of physical presence and teleconferencing service in twelve-member circles, including speakers per parliamentary group: up to twenty-five from New Democracy, up to fifteen from SYRIZA, up to five from the Change Movement, the KEI, the Greek Solution and the Mera25. The names of the speakers have already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconferencing conference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. The agency has done - to know your programming, in particular the rapporteurs and the Parliamentary Representatives - an estimate of time with some relative comfort and about eight o'clock at night, the debate must be completed, including the positions of the five ministers who will come for their amendments. Does the House agree with the principle of procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. We can start with Mr Georgios Kotonia, Member of the New Democracy Parliament and rapporteur of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have seen teleworking in our country in the past with a lot of suspicion, since some people have seen redundancies behind it, a reduction in their wages and an increase in unemployment, despite the fact that abroad is an established practice for years. Of course we cannot even talk today about such a suspicion, especially about the public, that our bill deals with. And then came the pandemic and the unprecedented conditions it imposed and demanded immediate action at many levels of our daily lives and, among other things, in the workplace. Teleworking was an immediate solution, even though most of it was implemented without a specific period of adaptation and preparation and training. It has certainly changed, introduced and created new data in Greece as well as in the working environment, and despite the fact that its implementation has been immediate and violent, with many resulting difficulties for workers and businesses, teleworking today is valued positively by the majority of the workers who have observed time and cost savings. This is reflected in research by the Athens University of Economics, in which teleworkers appear more positive in their expectations of the future of work than those who go to the workplace. For several years academics and scientists involved in the management of human resources have shown the benefits of adopting flexible teleworking practices, both for workers and businesses. It therefore makes clear that specific guidelines and rules at European level are needed to ensure that these practices are properly implemented, that we make best use of human resources and new technologies, so that we can ultimately maximise the benefits for society. In this context, a number of practices applied in other countries of the European Union and the Organisation for Economic Cooperation and Development have been taken into account in drawing up this draft law. Secondly, international research and studies, such as the European Union Joint Research Centre and the study of the good governance of the Council of Europe. Thirdly, Parliament's resolutions of October and December 2020 on employment and social policies in the euro area and finally the International Labour Organisation's guide to teleworking during the pandemic period and after that. But what are the objectives of this bill? Direct short-term objectives of the present are to ensure an effective teleworking framework for civil servants, with the protection of the personal data of the parties involved, to ensure the quality of the services provided to the citizen and to protect the rights of employees under the teleworking regime. The direct objective is to strengthen productivity and strengthen workers through the promotion of their autonomy in the organisation of work. The aim is to attract new digitally trained managers, to save resources from the reduction in the operating costs of services and workers resulting from the reduction of travel and the direct promotion of digital transformation in the public sector. And that's very important. Long-term objectives of the rated draft to promote teleworking in the public sector are to help maintain people's jobs with serious health problems, save time and cost of movement of workers, regulate their working time and better balance between working and private life. The long-term objective is also to reduce carbon dioxide emissions associated with daily movement. Recently, here in our House, we voted to introduce the introduction to the planning of our cities of sustainable urban mobility. We have recently talked about a transition to the green economy and to the 2030 objectives. In the design of a society of fewer pollutants, teleworking will certainly play an important role. It also aims to improve employment opportunities for disabled people and aims to serve as a tool for tackling rural desertification. During the thorough discussion in the Committee on Civil Service I think that the representatives of the factions have agreed to the principles governing the institution of teleworking and can be summarised as follows. First, its voluntary nature. Telework is voluntary for the worker and the worker, with the exception of cases of occupational health and public health risks, and the work is now compulsory. Secondly, the principle of equal treatment. Teleworkers enjoy the same rights and have the same obligations as non-teleworking employees, as defined in the general specific provisions, for example, their wages and service increases. Thirdly, the protection of personal data. The institution must take appropriate technical and organisational measures to ensure the protection of personal data which may be used and to be processed by the worker in the context of the application of teleworking. Fourthly, respect for privacy. The operator shall respect the privacy and confidentiality of the teleworker's communications. The use of any working time monitoring system should be required by the operational needs of the organisation and should be limited to the intended purpose. As I mentioned, a very important part that is called upon to ensure that this draft law relates to the protection of personal data in the application of teleworking. In this context, Article 6 provides for a number of specifications which, if they are not at least ensured by the operator concerned, cannot be carried out by teleworking or, if it has been initiated, it shall be interrupted. The institution shall, in cooperation with the Data Protection Officer, be responsible, firstly, for informing and training employees about the procedures for the protection of personal data, secondly, for the provision of appropriate devices, thirdly, for the safe access of workers to the information systems of the operator and the safe use of files containing personal data. At the same time, practical issues relating to the implementation of teleworking are dealt with in Articles 8, 9, 10, 11 and 12, such as the timeliness of teleworking in the year, the maximum percentage of staff per address which may be employed by teleworking, the place of supply and the provision of such equipment and computer support by the operator concerned. Particularly important is the definition of workers' working hours, as well as the fact that, after that, teleworkers retain the right to disconnect from the computer and communication facilities they use to carry out the work, with a view to protecting their privacy. Public administration will soon be able to operate properly and efficiently with a single information system, both in normal conditions and in emergency conditions, always aiming at the uninterrupted service of citizens. The business continuity project in the public sector is included in the digital strategy of the Internal and Public Administration of the Digital Transformation Bible 2020-2025 and concerns the implementation of all necessary actions so that civil servants in the public sector can carry out their tasks safely and effectively. In fact, a study has already been carried out on the sustainability of the forecasted information system, while testing safety systems and piloting the teleworking model to be applied. In the second part of this draft, several issues are dealt with, such as the evaluation period for officials and the time margin for objecting when they do not agree with this assessment. Secondly, the secretarial support of the Second Disciplinary Board to facilitate its operation. Thirdly, the rewards of journalists who work as local government journalists. Fourthly, the appointment of relatives of public servants who died as a result of the performance of their duties. Here, in Article 23, the setting of a priority order for beneficiaries is a crucial and chronic issue of long delays and costs for beneficiaries. Fifth, Article 24 provides for the monitoring of disciplinary cases through and under the responsibility of the National Transparency Authority. Article 25 provides for the payment of rents for the buildings of the Special Institution of the Ministry of Interior relating to the year 2020. Finally, Article 26 provides for incentives for officials from Local Government A' and B' grades of remote areas and islands to address the issue of subsistence of the relevant services, with the possibility that local government A's A' and B' grades may provide housing and feeding to civil servants of all specialities serving in these areas. Ladies and gentlemen, the very creative debate that has taken place in the Committee on Public Administration has clarified various objections - which have nothing to do with the basic principles of the draft law, but with the practical application of some of its articles - and some questions relating to the innovatory nature of teleworking in the public sector have been answered. It was made clear that the assignment of teleworking is not a service change, which can affect the future of the civil servant, but is simply an operational arrangement concerning his workplace, and this, in conjunction with the voluntary nature of the teleworking, does not require the use of objective or other criteria for inclusion in it and is left to the head of the service each time. It was also made clear that the time of teleworking cannot be unlimited for any category of employees, because it must not be the teleworking official who must be completely cut off from his work environment. Of course it was also clear that the falsification of the protection of the staff of undeclared overtime has been made clear after their decoupling from the teleworking industry, since this is essentially the same treatment and behaviour that all employees can have, whether they work in person or with teleworking. In other words, how they will manage their time and their privacy after hours. Finally, with an amendment tabled and included in this draft law, there are issues relating to the introduction and competition of the National School of Public Administration and Government as regards who is responsible for carrying out this competition. In this regard, the Central Committee for Examinations, set up for each new competition by a decision of the Minister of the Interior, which defines the Board of Regulators by members of the teaching staff HEI and the designation of supervisors by civil servants. These competitions are attended by the graduates of HEIs and are excluded from the students and graduates of the National School of Public Administration, the National School of Local Government. Article 2 provides for the opening of the introductory tendering procedure in two stages and by a decision of the Minister of the Interior, the matters of organisation of the tendering procedure shall be laid down. Article 3 stipulates the obligation for importers to declare, after notification of the results, the parts they want in order to qualify. As for this year's competition, which will take place in the autumn, a written test may be included in both Italian and Spanish as a second foreign language. Also in the second part of the amendment on public mobility, it is laid down that the staff of decentralised administrations are excluded from their participation in mobility cycles and it is clarified that for those who have an obligation to stay in a border county or island, they may be transferred or seconded, but within the limits of their area of commitment, if they have completed half the time of compulsory residence, especially in the case of a spouse's service. It is also clarified that it is not required in cases of serious health and co-responsibility reasons, that the two-year period should be completed, but always provided that the appointment was not carried out on grounds of locality. All requests for transfer or secondment shall be assessed by the Central Mobility Committee on the basis of specific criteria, which are included in this amendment. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill represents a step forward in taking a chance and a practice that has been created in our country under particularly exceptional circumstances. We can see today how we will be more effective in adopting this practice, so that with an open mind - and I stress this - we can eliminate weaknesses and make maximum use of the benefits that it can offer. This draft law on public labour has beyond its general framework and the flexibility of supplements and improvements through decrees, which can specify procedures to show great adaptability to the rapid developments that are coming. The bill obviously does not consider teleworking in public panacea to solve all its problems, nor a vehicle to radically change the model of exploiting its human resources, but a combined tool, a modern alternative, which with institutionalised terms and rules will facilitate the functioning of the public and will facilitate public officials to provide better services to citizens. In the belief that it is a useful and modernised bill for the public sector, I call on all colleagues to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u4	Mr George Papaliou, SYRIZA's general rapporteur, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a reference to today's general day, which is a day of strike, a day of struggle for workers. Workers are fighting and claiming their rights against the labour bill - an abortion which the New Democracy Government has introduced and debated this week on the relevant committees and the next in plenary session, against a bill that equates labour rights, empowers labour law, both in terms of its protection and in terms of its collective dimension and function. It is a bill that affects all the workers in the private and public sectors, it affects already the workers, as it encourages over-exploitation, with a reduction in pay and a abolition of rights, but also the unemployed, since it makes it difficult or rather prevents recruitment. It also affects small and medium-sized enterprises, since restricting the purchasing power of workers adversely affects them. It dissolves trade unionism and destroys the right to strike. It condemns the new generation in a future of insecurity, cheap and flexible work. Therefore, in Parliament, this week and elsewhere in society, two concepts conflict, two worlds, I would say: The 'development' proposal of the Government of New Democracy and the development proposal of the progressive space, which consists of the country's socially just productive reconstruction, the working forces and the forces of productive creation in the first place. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will continue to fight with the workers in this Parliament and wherever else in society, so that this anti-government bill - an abortion - is not passed and, if it goes through and voted, we are committed that, when the people are willing to take over the country's rule, this bill - the law now, if it is adopted - will be abolished. Now, with regard to the present bill, even in light, non-violent form, it is a link in the chain of legislative initiatives by the Government which regulate important areas of public space, in a way that creates risks, both for the protection of personal data and for the protection of workers' rights. As to how to legislate, we are once again faced with a process of malnutrition by the government of the excellence and the state of the neo-right of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. While we had received assurances to the committee that we will not find ourselves in surprises and that an amendment of the Ministry of the Interior will be tabled on the introduction competition at the National School of Public Administration and on mobility, a series of ministerial amendments, whole bills, will be tabled at all times, which will be passed without consultation and with fast track procedures. This practice is well known to be a disgrace to Parliament, a disgrace to democracy itself. Unfortunately, gentlemen of the government, you do not legislate this way for the first time. You constantly do so, in order to pass a lot in secret and unsubstantiated. The pandemic in this respect has come to you 'the box'. This, of course, does not mean that you should not be accounted for by all kinds of responsibilities. The bill regulates the field of teleworking in the public sector under normal and exceptional circumstances. While already thousands of public sector employees - as well as the private sector - have been working or working remotely for over twelve months, that is, today - with a great deal of delay - this bill is being introduced in order to lay down rules in this particular landscape. First of all, we wonder whether an evaluation of the operation of teleworking in the public sector has been carried out so far in order to take advantage of the results in the drafting of the bill. The digitisation of the public administration initiated by the previous SYRIZA government is a necessary tool, linked to new technologies, for information technology and responding to current technological development and progress. However, it must be made together and have a specific orientation. Fast and slow operation of digital tools can jeopardise the rights of workers and also of the citizens of trade with public services. The question of personal data is of crucial importance for the operation of teleworking and the Presidential Decree to be issued and specifying in particular how to protect it must be issued promptly. Otherwise, the start of the application of the law, the current bill that will become the law of the State, will be in the air. The bill does not succeed in regulating the field of teleworking in full, because it contains important vagueities and does not guarantee - I repeat - workers' rights. In addition, most of the issues will be dealt with in the future on the basis of authorizing provisions, a presidential decree on the protection of personal data and ministerial decisions on the other issues. In the context of teleworking, the right of workers to disconnect - indeed guaranteed by a general clause - must be explicitly guaranteed - all working hours, all the rights laid down by labour law and applicable to the rest of the workers in the physical presence and expressly banned any unfavourable service development and crisis on the grounds that the worker is seeking or providing teleworking. The right to disconnect means that the teleworker discontinues the provision of work, does not communicate, does not respond and does not respond to telephone, e-mail or any form of communication other than working hours, but also during rest days, days and days of any kind. The right to disconnect also involves the employer's obligation not to bother in any way, for example by sending messages to the teleworker. It is clear that any discrimination against the teleworker exercising that right must be expressly prohibited. The technical and organisational measures necessary to ensure the decoupling of digital communication and work tools must be mandatory conditions of the contract of work. In addition, the teleworking regulation framework should provide for the provision to the teleworker of the necessary equipment and software concerned by the operator in order to ensure the personal data of the public, the teleworkers and the operators and the privacy of both the teleworkers and the operators. It seems, as the Minister for the Interior has said in the committee responsible, that this is to be made difficult. I mean, we'll see. However, if the teleworker makes available his own space, equipment and software for the provision of telework, the operator must cover all operating costs and costs to which the teleworker will be subject. Teleworking, ladies and gentlemen, must be an exception. The rule, especially in the public sector, must be - and it cannot be - work which is physically present at the premises of the employer. It is for this reason that entry into a teleworking scheme should be voluntary for the worker. It cannot be imposed by the employer, the Head of Service. The voluntary nature of teleworking must be ensured in such a way as not to leave its acceptance to the management right, arbitrarily and without criteria. The limitation of the number of persons employed in the public service requires the adoption of objective criteria for their selection. In addition to the objective criteria, provision should therefore be made for the reasoning of the refusal of the service to be provided for by the worker's request for teleworking and the right to object, in the event of a negative reply. From the placement of the Minister of Home Affairs in the committee responsible, it appears that the teleworking that appears to be a voluntary operation takes place toward the exercise of the management right with the decision of the employer body, since he will decide on the selection of the staff of the public service to be under work, and I repeat, without criteria, which are not provided for in the bill. Therefore, in conclusion, it must be ensured that teleworking is not the norm for some workers, that it will not be a tool for the heads of services to impose sanctions and for some privileged workers a gift. That is why the bill must have rules formulated in a clear and complete way, which is not the case. Furthermore, the bill should ensure the protection of workers, just as every worker is protected under current Labour Law. The general reference made in the bill needs further specialisation. And I now come to an issue included in the bill and I think it is extremely important for the development of the country. Teleworking could contribute to regional development by exploiting it to enhance the development of frontier islands, mountainous, isolated and sparsely populated areas, with measures to facilitate the stay or establishment of public workers able to work either from home or from teleworking stations in these areas. Such a provision complies with the constitutional rules of Article 101(4) of the Constitution, whereby the joint legislator and the administration, when acting regulatoryly, are required to take into account the particular circumstances of the islands and mountainous areas, by ensuring that they are developed. The selection criteria for the candidates for teleworking should therefore include permanent residence or relocation to rural, island, isolated and generally disadvantaged areas. Article 26 of the Legislative on Incentives to Workers of the Mountains, the less-favoured, the island regions and the provision of free feeding and accommodation by the LAGs - as already foreseen for teachers, medical, paramedical, nursing staff of the health centers, hospitals, EAWs and the executives of EL.AS. and the Fire Corps - I would say that it is weak, since this provision is up to the discretion of the Local Government agencies. The LAGs should be obliged to do so, with the unequivocally equivalent obligation of the central government to cover the relevant expenditure with the necessary resources. With regard to the amendment to the National School of Public Administration, it changes the content of the second stage of the introductory competition of the National School of Public Administration, the written and oral test in the Department of Public Administration and Administration - was introduced - and the written test in the foreign language, the excellent knowledge of which until now had been certified under the corresponding title. These changes are expected to apply from the next, the forthcoming competition, the 20th. This runs counter to the constitutional order and principles of good administration, legitimate expectations of administration and legal certainty. Therefore, they must not apply from the next, the forthcoming tender, but from the aftermath, as the constitutional rules require, the authorities, I repeat, good administration, legitimate confidence in the administration and legal certainty. Candidates, Minister, should not be surprised, subjected to additional mental and physical suffering and should be subjected to additional costs by changing the content and manner of the examinations. It's neither legal nor moral. Please, Minister, do not play with the anguish of the candidates, but also withhold reasonable suspicions of information from some beforehand. So call on you to amend the regulation and include a transitional provision so that the new way of introducing it will apply from the subsequent invitation to tender. In conclusion, teleworking can be a useful complementary tool for the public sector, but, I repeat, it cannot replace living work. And, of course, it should not be a lever to further reduce public service staff, reduce wages, increase the workload, optimise working hours, and of course, the direct assignments, which are your government's stubborn, norm. We'll keep an eye on you and keep an eye on you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u6	The special speaker from the Change Movement, Mr. George Kamine, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, the title of the bill we are debating today is 'the institutional framework for teleworking, provisions on public sector human resources and other regulations of the Ministry of Home Affairs' and we all know that this is not the case, due to the rain of amendments by the Ministry of Civil Protection, Education and Health which have been tabled so far and who knows and what else is waiting for us. The draft law in the original consultation initially contained just twenty articles. When the bill was submitted to the committee, the articles were made twenty-seven and now, if we sum up the number of articles including all the amendments, we are going to go to sixty-two in total, under the condition that nothing new will arise. What do we do like that? We undermine consultation in its broader concept. First of all, consultation as a stage in the pre-parliamentary procedure, which is where the bill is being put under the general crisis of society, and secondly, we underestimate consultation at its very centre, which is the House itself. Of course, the Minister told us that this has been done against the backdrop of the past, and we all know that. I refuse to compromise with this habit. Why? Because Article 75 of the Constitution violates, which imposes certain time limits for the introduction of amendments and additions, but the government itself has come to power by proclaiming correct legislation. I think when you've made a flag of yours and you come here yourself in retrospect and you undermine it with such cynicism, then the damage you do is double. And we should always protest against such practices, because that is how it avoids or at least slows down the risk that we all get used to this practice at some point, with a mistrialism in anti-parliamentary practices, which make the parliamentary process even more difficult. So, in trying to put things into order, I will refer to teleworking and then make a brief comment on the amendment concerning the National School of Public Administration and Mobility, and at the end I will express a few more general thoughts on public administration issues. As far as teleworking is concerned, humanity has been trying for a year and a half to demarcate what is experienced by the unforeseen outbreak of pandemic and is trying to demarcate it somehow through science and technology. Science has created the vaccine, which is the most powerful weapon currently in existence on the planet for the recovery of the pandemic. Technology accelerated the digital transition, through the rapid dissemination of electronic commerce, the digitisation of transactions and processes, teleworking and telecommunications. In this year and a half, huge steps have been taken. Meanings that fantasized until now far away are now an integral part of everyday life. Teleworking in particular and telecommunications have come to stay, but on what terms? Teleworking now refers to almost every policy text, whether at international level or in academic literature, is making the productive factor of work a decisive contribution to flexibility in the provision of work, which no longer meets territorial constraints, and confirms in the most representative way that we are living in a fully interconnected world. Globalisation nowadays is not only about freedom of movement for capital, but also about freedom of movement for work. We have also been forced and accelerated because of Lockdown. Both the public and the private sectors were called upon to adapt to an uncharted juncture, without clear institutional tools. That is why we have also advocated the existence of an institutional framework that regulates teleworking and is based on certain conditions. First of all, that it is always a public servant's right, rather than an obligation, to have no effect on wage pay and labour rights at all, that it does not give rise to inequalities between teleworkers and not, that personal data are fully guaranteed and, of course, that the uninterrupted and smooth functioning of the public service is ensured. Finally, teleworking must not be degenerated into an unwanted isolation from the administration or social exclusion of disabled persons. Does this draft law correspond to the above axes? Partly yes. It is a first step, reluctantly, but in a more general positive direction, which is why we will be voting in favour of the bill. In any case, the previous opinion of the Privacy Authority on the adoption of the Presidential Decree referred to in Article 19, which will regulate in particular matters relating to the protection of personal data, is correct. There are major issues concerning the working time monitoring system introduced by Article 5(d) or the possibility of using cameras not only for video conferences but also for checking the employee's performance. We believe that the opinion of the authority will reassure any reasonable fears that have been expressed about the protection of the rights to privacy and the family life of the public. In the positive direction, too, it is the Ministry's announcement of cooperation with MICROSOFT to strengthen and improve the digital skills of civil servants, so that the transition to the new teleworking system is as smooth and inclusive as possible. There are some issues in the bill that need to be improved, however, part of which are the proposals of the National Confederation of Disabled Persons, which we adopted by tabling a separate amendment, and which concern: first of all, the acceptance of the request for the teleworking of civil servants with disabilities or their parents, natural, fostering contractors, judicial partners of disabled persons or spouses with a disability rate of more than 50%, the doubling of the time limit for teleworking for those with disabilities from forty-four days per year, when providing the teleworking station for all the necessary means of accessibility. Apart from that, we also propose some legislative improvements. In Article 8, forty-four days of teleworking are not provided per quarter, but increased and provided throughout the year. In Article 13, the decision of the Head of Directorate setting out teleworking positions also to be justified on a matter relating to the public sector, in particular evaluation and mobility. In this respect, too, I read carefully the amendment on new courses with the Public Administration School. And I wonder. Once the examinations for the School of Public Administration are carried out in September, October, and the candidates are actually surprised, as new materials are added, what will it cost the Ministry to carry out the next competition with the existing system? This is a haste which is a matter of doubt, which violates the principle of predictability of administrative action and the legitimate expectations of the citizen. I believe in the National School of Public Administration. I believe in upgrading. We welcome the initiative to enrich the management board with new members of a high level. But you have a tendency to constantly change the rules of the game and, in this particular case, surprise yourself. The biggest revolution we have to do as a country is to keep the rules of the game from everyone within a framework of confidence. Finally, I should like to mention - because we have somewhat generalised the debate, and it was good, in our committee - on the subject of the major changes that are still pending, because to date we have seen fragmentary efforts and also fragmentary changes that you bring to the mobility system and to evaluation. The question of evaluation must come up with a new system of integration and be agreed with all the political forces, because it must be implemented over time. You will not normally apply this only to you and it must not be changed and this must not be constantly changed in time. In my second point, which I am referring to very often, I am referring to the fact that we need to move on to genuine decentralisation, to strengthen the local government agencies, not just to clarify the responsibilities, but also to transfer the provision and payment of real estate tax, all of this to the competence of local government bodies, the primary local government bodies. Every reform of this kind is a huge project. The last serious project was KALIKARATIS, which also anticipated something important. It also provided for an evaluation system for the application of its provisions, which was never done. Instead, SYRIZA preferred to come to change the electoral system. This is what I said about the rules of the game. And you come back and what you're actually going to reform is the rules of the game again, and what's pending is the point. It is of course a great reform, but there are perhaps ways to do it in a gradual and perhaps better way. That was a view I had repeatedly expressed in the Central Union of the Municipalities of Greece during the time of the memoranda, the last one many thought about was reforms, and then we had to move on with the reforms. I said at that time, since it may scare the possibility of such a large reform of local government, that we move on to pilot reforms, because then some municipalities had started to "red" in economic terms. They were the municipalities in debt, and there the surveillance that was imposed was much more intense. So I said then why not put some 'green' municipalities on some criteria. When I said 'in green', I naturally did not suspect that I would become a member of the Change Movement and that the PASOK debate will also be opened. I just had in mind that some municipalities should go to a higher speed, with some criteria. I said some criteria: municipalities that improve their financial situation, municipalities that serve their loans to banks, make economies of scale, have high rates of absorption in the NRP. In these municipalities, therefore, they could gradually begin to remove controls, confer more competences and be able to judge and assess how a system of genuine decentralisation and strengthening of local government could proceed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It was a trial period for everyone, which would also be an incentive for other municipalities to make these changes, these improvements in their operation, so that they too could resuscitate from the state's suffocating control or from the ever-increasing presence of central power, which does not actually allow self-government to develop its potential to the nearest possible extent. And without a strong local government, we will never have an end state of course. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u8	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday 11 June 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 848/7-2021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambous (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "They are the 110 million euros of the project "Greece 2.0" enough for anti-military projects in Crete, Western Greece, Peloponnese and Central Macedonia." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Implementing government planning for substituting the air cables of the TEDO". 3. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, entitled “The positions of apiculture associations, cooperatives, the National Interbranch Organisation of Honey and the Greek Scientific Society of Beekeeping in the decision on the functioning of the “National Electronic Apiculture Register””, under number 838/4-2021. B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 854/7-6-2021 of the current question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Support measures for self-employed entrepreneurs". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question asked by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Leaving of real estate in the Municipality of Heraklion". 3. The Question No 855/7-6-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on "Support measures for self-employed entrepreneurs". 4. The Question No 844/7-6-2021 by MP I Athens, Angelikos Adamopoulos, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Union treatment of beneficiaries of orphan children's pensions and widows". 5. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Extension of the entry into force of the collective labour contract for tourist bus drivers". 6. The Question No 845/7-6-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Olympus: the Government is considering the installation of industrial wind power stations'. REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question and application under number 5213/536-23-2021 by MP B2' West Athens area of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Trikala: destruction of part of the river Agiamoniotis". Mr. Ioannis Delis is now speaking on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you very much, Mr President. Big day, strike. And from this point of view, the Step is proud to welcome the thousands of strikers throughout the country who give a strong response to the provocative, anti-terrorist monstrous extremism brought to the parliament by the government. We compare our voice with them and tell the government: now withdraw your law! After all, the working class struggles will send him to where he should be, to the trash! From this point of view, the Step is also denounced by the judicial decision which, by demanding government and shipowners, unlawfully lifted the current strike of seafarers! Illegal strike called ten days ago? Illegal strike for such an antique bill that breaks workers' lives? Think about what happens after the bill was passed! But those who think that with something like that they'll subdue the workers are laughable and unscrupulous. Today's great strike in the ports and in all places of work shows that. The bill now. In fact this is about teleworking in the public sector, although a separate piece of legislation is essentially part of the other, the large anti-government bill, where there are provisions on teleworking in the private sector. And although the 'Hatzidakis draft', as it has been called, SYRIZA and KINAL choose high-level opposition tone - only in the House, it is true because, otherwise, their members are undermining the strike - for today's bill they are following a different tactic, as are the other urban parties. It is characteristic that KINAL openly states that it is voted on in principle, namely, on the substance of the matter, and SYRIZA is resented with embarrassment, without even questioning its substance. Let the world consider this attitude to legislation which is part of the same policy and serves the same strategy, the strategy of competitiveness, which they have done as governments and with great masturbation, and SYRIZA and PASOK. However, this strategy, capitalist competitiveness, as it shows every day and life, is also the main cause of the anti-government nature of any measure taken in its name, since - and as the workers live in - when the side of this currency, competitiveness, writes 'big profitability', in the other one always writes 'big exploitation of labour' and the more one increases as much as the other increases. This same competitiveness strategy is also served by teleworking in the public and private sectors, as it increases the intensity of the exploitation of workers through flexible, but mainly through unpaid working time. Or as the European Union says as early as 2002 in its first teleworking programme: 'This helps to ensure that businesses, public and private', the European Union never single out businesses, 'to modernise the organisation of work by including flexible work arrangements, with a view to improving the productivity and competitiveness of enterprises and achieving the necessary balance between flexibility and security'. In other words, life and the work of 'ladder'. So we understand why over the years BSE, bankers and business groups have been demanding the introduction of teleworking. And now, with the pandemic, they've found the opportunity they've been looking for to do it. So what is coming as an emergency because of the pandemic is very quickly seen to be consolidated and permanent. In fact, sixteen months after the start of the pandemic and the first FPI in March 2020 that imposed the broad application of teleworking - in the public sector, and over 30% - confirmed what we said at the first moment, that both teleworking and a number of other anti-territorial measures were quickly activated, on the pretext of the emergency situation, actually came to stay in the life of the workers and after the pandemic. It is precisely as it has happened, that is to say, in the far for younger 1990s, with parttime work and flexible working hours. What did governments say when they voted? That these things would be on a voluntary basis, not necessarily, that they would help those who just want an income supplement, a pocket, say, that it would help young couples and women to look after their children and other cute ones. What do we see after thirty years? Part-time work has not only been established, but increasingly spread to the new generation, and to those sectors which are also aware of the greatest development: tourism, focus and trade. According to ELSTAT, the vast majority of the new employment contracts signed are both parttime contracts in the private and public sectors. "With one stone of two birds" for the capital: and the abolition of stable normal labour and recycling at the same time of unemployment and poverty, so that the critical social cohesion is not ruined. But did they not hear the same thing a few years ago about the so-called 'work time training', and today they sound like ministerial jokes about olives? "Don't be afraid," they told the workers. "Everyone will make his own working hours according to how he wants and suits him." 'It is of interest to you', they told the workers, 'the arrangement'. And where did we come after the 2011 PASOK vote of the law, a law that reminds us that SYRIZA also maintained it? New Democracy should now come and be prepared to abolish the eighth hour, to replace it with the tenth hour, please, and the free overtime for employers. Somehow, then, in the same misleading way, the new anti-government routes are always opened and everything that comes very quickly is done regularly and permanently. The same goes for teleworking. Let us look at the government's arguments here. First of all, the government is showing the environmental footprint, he says, of teleworking by reducing travel. It is simply a pretext, as it is the same government and the same policy that sacrifices even NATURA regions on the altar of capitalist profits, sows with wind turbulent virgin forests and mountains, that it does not see air pollution in western Thessaloniki and Triasios and it is enough to increase the carcinogenic burning of garbage in Thessaloniki, Volos and then follow up. You don't call it all very pro-environmental. But the basic point, although defensive basically, is another: the voluntary nature, he says, of work for workers and, furthermore, a positive one, the great benefits of teleworking for workers. However, that Article 7 in paragraph 3 comes, and says: 'In the event of a risk to public health and exceptional conditions and needs, the staff member shall accept the proposal of the teleworker'. Let me figure it out for the danger of public health. But what about the emergencies, conditions and needs? Who's true to them as such? It says this in Article 19 below. The Minister of the Interior along with the Minister for Civil Protection and the relevant Minister will, as appropriate, make a joint ministerial decision and will simply announce and define, as appropriate, the exceptional circumstances and needs. I beg your pardon, do you call this a voluntary nature, a voluntary application of teleworking? Because that is what we think it is called otherwise, it is the 'walkers' of the law to enforce and generalize teleworking. The provisions of Articles 8 and 9, of course, on the time and quantitative limitations of teleworking, which can be easily circumvented, are also of the same low value as in Article 19, 'the time periods and the percentage of the employees of the institution who will be invited to carry out their duties under the teleworking scheme'. In fact, the percentage of employees to telework can also be doubled, from 25% to 50% in each service. And all this with a simple decision of a chief. We do not say it, we do not say it, and the Minister said it in committee yesterday, saying, 'Because I tell you now, I want there to be flexibility', he said, 'the director to make a decision'. After all, as you can see, teleworking as voluntary remains, but only in euphemism. As for the benefits and balance of professional and private family life that telework is supposedly bringing, what can we say? It was equilibrium by thousands of micromen inside their homes when they were forced into quarantine space to televise their babies hanging on their necks and their young children on their feet. Instead of looking for a modern network of nursery nurseries that meets all the current needs of young couples, you are feeding them the deceptive benefits of teleworking. As they experienced this balance - we say now - and tens of thousands of teachers, who raised themselves and at their own expense, please, personal expenses for the training of thousands of children, when the state did not even move its finger to help them by taking out only circulars and schools' shut-downs. It is a good thing that those who agree with teleworking should pay attention to what Mr Nikos, the Peloponnese Regional Administrator and the New Democracy official said, that all the technology equipment for teleworking must be the sole responsibility of the worker, without any obligation and responsibility of the State. But did that not happen in the quarantine, when thousands of workers were ordered to work on telework without even the state asking them whether they have the technological equipment required for such work? In Article 12, it shall also say openly: 'The staff member may, at the present time, 'if he wishes to do so, make use of his staff in the technology equipment'. Of course everyone understands what that means. Only to think about what old computers most of the public services work and then he will realize that they are taking it slowly, so that the weight of the equipment is borne by the teleworker. Also in Article 11, the official says that the official should - listen to him! - to ensure that the selected teleworking area meets the minimum requirements and complies with the general rules for the prevention, hygiene and safety. What are these now? In addition to financial burden and individual responsibility? Individual responsibility, even for health and safety conditions in the performance of a job? What about the employer? If we go to the question of protecting personal data, that's where the snakes live. It is not only the official fresco with the bogeyman of the European Union directives, which you are all voting on, it is also the recent past of the government in the matter that is extremely reassured. It has recently been revealed that ‘CISCO’ has the possibility and the right of the contract signed with it by the Government to collect and use data for use by the tele-education of thousands of pupils and teachers. What exactly protection of personal data are you talking to us about? If we go to the bill, then all the employee's monitoring systems can be put into operation, as long as the institution thinks it appropriate - it says - of the purpose, which the committee condemned the other day and the President of the Privacy Authority himself, Mr Menudakos. It is true that the bill has removed what was in the original draft, which said that for monitoring systems - for cameras, that is, to understand - there is a need not only for the prior information of the teleworker but also for his consent. This has been removed. There's no one in the bill. Let's go to the notorious right to disconnect. Of course we support this right as a basic and non-negotiable labour right. In order to do so, however, this right must first and foremost be imposed on any employer to disconnect the worker's access to the files and applications of teleworking, with barriers to software and electronic messages. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute or two from my dentistry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u10	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u11	Thank you. Otherwise, as the pandemic experience has shown, many managers and supervisors do not smack both hours and hours inappropriately. In fact, with the axe of the supervisor's assessment, held by the chief over the heads of staff, now tell me what you will have this right to disconnect them. Are there any benefits from teleworking? Of course. But not for workers, but for large employers, either private or public. First of all, with the high savings in operating expenditure. The most important benefit, however, is another. It is the take-off of the exploitation of teleworked workers. Because work, you know, form can change and change into the territory of occasional technological developments. However, what does not change in the context of capitalist production relationships is its exploitation. It is only by teleworking that the exploitation of workers increases and deepens. So that's why, with teleworking, capitalist profits take off. How, then, can the large business groups not rub their hands in all branches? However, those who must be concerned by its establishment are the workers themselves and should not underestimate the consequences of teleworking in their lives and their rights. Because it abolishes any discrimination between working time and non-working time. Because it increases intensification of work. It expands the hours, the unpaid work. Because not only are they not balanced, as you are proclaiming and moving, but they are finally merged and the limits of personal, family and work are finally lost. Because he isolates the worker from the workplace and from his colleagues, so that his social and trade union action can be hampered even by the social nature of human work, that is, the foundation of culture. Because musculoskeletal problems are exacerbated, mental and visual fatigue is intensified, without even all of this being considered as occupational diseases. So the question is not whether or not modern technology should be exploited. The question is how it is exploited and to whose benefit it is exploited. The technology and the launching of labour productivity all of this, today, says that it can and should be reduced by the human labour force. In other words, working time can be drastically reduced. But you, and all those who support and serve this system, what are you doing? Do the exact opposite. Increase working hours, and even without payment, and bring telework, to deepen even more flexibility and exploitation. So you want to use technology? Very good. Leave the teleworking aside and now vote the seven-hour, five-day, thirty-five hours. But now. Because that's real progress. Of course we are voting against the bill at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u12	The special speaker will now be given the floor from the Greek Solution, Mr Constantine Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, "when you're burnt with polish, blow and yogurt," says a proverb. So, I want you to know an impression we have. When we hear of majestic plans that will give solutions to problems, we have learned on the one hand to keep a very small basket and, on the other, to look for who the pit has. Do we have a little basket why? For years - not you personally, your governments - have flammed us with lies. And distrust why? 'Cause lately with all the anti-constitutionals you're actually voting on, our eye has been scared of you. We're scared, we're scared. And because the Greek Solution has always made arguments about what it says and since today we are discussing a technological upgrade - so we call it - I will read you a 2013 statement. Listen, Mr. Voridis. Statement: "I can promise today that we will have free Wi-Fi, wireless internet, all over Greece in one year." Antonis Samaras, 2013. What can you believe after politicians and governments? It's been eight years, and we still haven't put any visual fibers on. They're still selling the companies with weighted speeds, and we've got a speed of eight to ten in the houses. Now, let's go to mistrust, when the last twenty-four hours, then, you've served as a government to an unthinkable, Minister, and at some point when you speak, I would like to see your position here - on a total declaration that would actually be envious and advisers of the dark past. And today, when we talk about teleworking, I want to point out, to stay in the Minutes, that it will be terrible - because we have seen it all with you - if you dare think in any way tomorrow, tomorrow to be isolated by teleworking uninvasive people who will not allow them to go to work. Because we have heard incredible things from this sacred Step of the House by the Prime Minister. It was creepy things that the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, said the day before yesterday. We have reacted a great deal, with statements from the President, with reports from us here. I can't misunderstand or prevent a shopkeeper if he wants to rule out an invasive citizen from his shop. And we ask: is there a regulatory framework? Is there a coordinate state? Is there any legislation? Who defines these? Anyone do whatever they like, whatever they want? Let's just say the other thing, we'll smoke in our shops tomorrow. We decide. Some. A portion. It is terrible to exclude people. And of course, once said, on the same day, in the media, you saw a title in the news releases: "The debate on forced vaccination is opening." Nah, since we said it wouldn't be mandatory. You assured us of all the tons, when you were concerned, that you did not dare and proceed. Because we are against the obligation. We're against nothing else. Everyone has to choose to do what they want. We won't tell him to do it or not to do it. Whatever everyone wants. As is true in our party, what is true in our family, what is true for everyone. Everyone does what they want. But not necessarily. And you go make it compulsory. The debate and the debate on compulsoryity have now opened. And you see, the journalists are coming out and substituting you. They're doing the government's work. "And of course we must make it compulsory." It's really great what's going on! Awesome! So we do not want to believe that you may think so badly about teleworking, because teleworking is a very serious issue. The Greek Solution does not turn its back on the future, nor are we cave people. We follow technology with a very large portion of young people who ideologically follow us and support us, and obviously we do not turn our back on technology. Another thing is how I implement this and how I will be able to take the next step in the future. We don't trust you. Proof we don't trust you. And with what you've been doing over the past few months, you've made us worry about the Greeks as well. I say again and I close with this: If you dare apply teleworking as another measure of exclusion and division of Greek society, you will find us in front of you normally, with all the power we have. You see what's going on right now. They are trying politically to exploit it by the left parties. There's a lot of people out there. That's what I'm saying, Mr. Voridis. He's got marches, protests. There is, of course, something that SYRIZA is forgetting and is trying a little bit to smoke. This isn't 2015 now. This is where you have ruled. You forget that. This is "Kramer vs Kramer". So, is Alexis Tsipras going out today to do what? Say what? Protest what exactly? For what he signed as a Memorandum of Obligations, and do the bill have to be passed by Thursday and, because there will be a lot of people here, we put it three days and we start it on Monday to end Wednesday? Because programming was Thursday. But on Thursday you must have passed this bill because it is a Memorandumary obligation. It's nothing else. What are we talking about? You brought it. It's awesome! And you're going back to the streets. So, as you were 17 November and went to the American Embassy, you changed course and went from there. Whatever suits you. You're either complaining or not complaining. You'll put the vine again, you'll put the t-shirt back and you'll come out. That's not a serious policy. You forget you have ruled. You are no longer the pure, virgin party, which had a cresent of populism and, unfortunately, convinced the world. Now, as far as the New Democracy is concerned, we have many days to talk about it. Mr Vorides, it is - from the payment of the New Democracy, see it - the first time that the liberal party of the New Democracy is going against and abolishing collective agreements. And you show that way - I won't say anything else, we'll analyze them in the next few days - your hard neoliberal face. Nothing else. Let's go to the bill. When we were discussing in committee the bill you asked us to vote on, we had asked some basic questions. What questions? If telework is introduced to the public. At the moment, Makis Voridis, the Interior Minister, brings this bill. We read it, analysed it, saw what's in it, what's not in it, what should have it, told you what we think should have in it. Will the tails stop in the public service? Oh, no. And that's not a question of the bill. It's a deep sepsis in the country's public administration. Will the citizen be served immediately with a quick date or will he be forced to go twice and three times? Will public services serve by phone? Will retirement applications come out faster? Answer us with a proposal. Will the citizen be served, yes or no? That's the question. Has the image of the government changed as we know it? We're dealing with a magical picture out there. You can see it. Is there a direct service? The citizen asks. This is where you pass bills. Is there going to be a direct service to taxes, insurance funds, public first-line services? The answer's not gonna be me. The answer was given by the FMD commander and, to tell you properly, by e-FYROM. So, uh, E.F.D.A. what is it? It's the transformed, digitised and modern EFKA, e - EFKA. So what did he say by letter? He sent a letter to his staff, Mr. Scandalides, and said to raise the phones - if you have your God! - to respond to citizens' e-mails and telephone calls. In other words, the commander of the FBI sent mail, "children, please, pick up the phones and answer the emails." Strata, army! So, what did the FMD Commander admit here? That there is no citizen's communication with e-Efca and, indeed, asked the managers, I quote, I quote, "to proceed with the necessary steps to restore the citizens' smooth communication with e-Efka as soon as possible". What country are we, guys? What kind of attitude is that? For God's sake! The self-evident! That is the reality and, if you had contact with society, Mr Vorides, you would know that. So tell me all this transformation, this transition to the digital age - which is good, yes - what is it, when the most neuro-algal service of the state does not even answer the phones? How much e - EVA is, after all, EVCA, when he doesn't answer the e-mail people send? What has changed, when citizens are still troubled, to find closed doors, services, etc.Huh? And I mention all this, to point out that yes! - the public must be modernised, it must evolve, in the light of the new circumstances and the needs of the time. And we're clear about that. However, this modernization is done with a final objective, which we must not forget. What's the target? The citizen's service, in order to make communication easier and more accessible, make it easier for him to live daily. It is not possible under pandemic conditions and restrictions, with closed doors, for services not to answer the phones. And since the bill is about teleworking in the public sector, I'm going to stand on something else that the commander of e-ECA said. What did he say? He said: "During the gradual return of all of us to the new normality formed in the post-COVID period, coupled with the reduction of the teleworking rate," he said, "the branches of the ECA are once again the main service nodes of the insured." So the teleworking of civil servants has contributed to not serving citizens? That's what I understand. Is the teleworking going off public services? Is that what's going on? That's what the man says. You have assured us that the public has worked all this time and, indeed, you have said, Minister, that you are also proud of its operation. The citizens, the insured, the pensioners, the employees, the commander of e-ECA are opposed and have expressed it. I transferred it to you a little while ago. But how can we talk at the law level right now - why are you going to legislate on teleworking, distance work - on alternative forms of work, when we have left behind in the basic form of public work, with many public services having a great deal of subsistence problem, with great shortages of infrastructure, technology equipment? How, then, can telework yield when we're in the realms? It's like you're saying the team's going to play football, but we don't have shoes. How are we gonna play? We may be in a mood, coach good, but we don't have shoes and shirts, the basic equipment. How are we gonna play? Gymnastics? Even now, computers, computers, public services - you know - are not enough for all employees. Most of them have the shit technologically black. Unfortunately, this is the situation, which is not just your responsibility, but all those who have been running this country for so many years. That's our public. A monster! His face is a monster-like face. You said, Minister, that Greece is one of the last countries that have not legislated for teleworking. I'm not questioning you here. We'll agree. Nor can you question the fact that public services in other countries do not have such a problem or such a mess. Let's talk about this. Yes, we have, last but not least, been behind legislating teleworking, but none of the European countries have our own mess. The major and main problems of public administration must therefore be prioritised by the state. And we're talking about a huge, vast, obscure, if you want, public. And in this public, which I described, with that ugly person, you guys go to legislate on teleworking. What's changed to do that? Did the computer services, printers and consumables amplified? A lot of services are lacking even on A4 paper. We have now seen with teleworking and distance work that officials are leaving with service files in their homes, huge, to carry all these documents, without a computer, without anything. And now we're going to a home computer to do everything? I mean, you're obligated at home to have a computer, where you have to work, to have your kid's televised, to work. Household connections are hitting red. And also the use of Internet and mobile data is now extremely expensive to these companies. Minister, you're efficient. And I will give you the credit after the amendment you are bringing, because we are just. We're telling you that. Get the companies. It's not possible! It's robbery the contracts and the charges they have. Layoffs. The Greek citizens and the Greek family pay for these services very expensively. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will proceed with everything quickly, because it has already been exhausted....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u14	You have a tolerance, as do previous colleagues for two, three more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u15	If you finally say so kindly, you always achieve your goals. Thank you, Mr President. Since the conditions and conditions for the implementation of this form of work have not been established, since there is no necessary equipment for this, how can the employee be teleworked? I'm just saying, how's it gonna be teleworked? The bill also provides for the possibility for staff to use their own teleworking station. You present it as a possibility. That is, the lack of ability to supply him with the necessary weapons, you present it as a possibility. Unbelievable! So his right to use his own computer. But the truth is - and you know it very well - that you are going to cover your own government weaknesses, the Ministry. So since teleworking is introduced you should be able to support it. Clearly. And someone would well say why the clerk wouldn't use his own computer, what's the problem with you? Because household connections, home computers do not have high safety indicators. And we don't say it, you know what's going on with the hackers. The Association of Informatics in Greece, at the hearing of bodies we heard, was clear. As the bill is formulated, we were told, there are serious problems and risks not only for the state data, but also for the personal data of the teleworker and his family. We also disagree with responsibility. You are moving serious issues, Mr Vorides, the burden and the responsibility of the State to the official who wants to get caught. This body must ensure at the level of technological support for the staff member. I would like to make two comments on your amendments, and I shall refer to my second. I think that until the day is over - you have your partner next door - the changes to the public administration school competition, Mr Voridis, should apply from the next rather than the present one. There are people who've been ready to pay money. You're putting them back in a process now to go to tutoring. He may have proficiency, but he has to do some lessons to give. The requirements are high. Look at this for next year. Make the change, but it will apply from time to time. They've been in a process, they've done a preparation, and now suddenly you're changing everything. Take a look at this. I should also like to say that we are very happy as a Greek Solution, because we have had ears on your face for a very important problem, which we have also brought to committee as a Greek Solution and to Parliament's plenary session and, in particular, to the Minister, for the enormous problem facing, Mr President, fellow citizens of our stores, who have done what, Mr President? They had their shops closed, because that's how the government decided for ten, fifteen months, they continued to charge them municipal fees, with closed shops, so they couldn't work, so they couldn't collect them, so they couldn't pay. And they don't pay them. How much is it? Fifty thousand... And the municipality puts fines, surcharges because it keeps the law - another sixty thousand, a hundred ten - and the other one says: prison. They can't make tax information because of this debt. We have insisted on many occasions - and we are delighted that we have achieved this as a Greek Solution - to the Minister and, in particular, by the committees and by the plenary and by messages, to see this and today it brings an amendment. It is an amendment to Article 2. In fact, it is an extraordinary arrangement for grade I OTAs and it includes all of this, so that these people can take a breath, Mr President, to take a breath. It is very important that they can regulate some things. Mr. Voridis, figs and boats. The point is we're gonna give it to you where we're against...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u16	All right, and with the 'right...' to Mr. Vorides, you're finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President, and be well!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u18	And we will finish the rapporteurs and speakers with Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou from Mera25. The Minister told me that he would listen to all the speakers and then speak. Mr Petsas will eventually, after about an hour or so - whenever he chooses - present the amendment. Of course, if he wants to, he can talk. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will begin, with reference to the day of the whole strike, that we are also standing on the side of the workers against this bill, which regulates the deregulation of labour relations, extends the existing legal and substantive, real inequality between workers and employers and in any case affects at its core the progressive trade union law. We therefore believe that the adoption of this law constitutes an institutional regression and we should all fight for its withdrawal first. As far as the bill under discussion is concerned, it is firstly necessary, Minister, to clarify something very essential, because this argument has been heard against the committee. The fact that you come here with this draft law to regulate a field that is already unregulated does not mean that you are approaching it properly. So there is no point in repeating once and for all that you do something when what you do ends up dysfunctional. In my place in committee, I have been detailed and detailed in many specific articles of the bill, in substance and by proposing specific legislative improvements. I have even indicated the wrong internal reference. While, then, the government's encouragement is to make a fruitful and constructive dialogue and not simply criticise the criticism, we have seen a reluctance and dystomia in finally holding this productive dialogue. This does not in any way lead to good legalisation and good lawmaking. So since such a bill first expresses a wider consensus on its in principle necessity, it would be advisable to hold a more open-minded debate and to see greater willingness on your part. I say this in general as a criticism on the part of the ministers to incorporate at least some, if not all, of the proposals we are making or some of the ideas we are making and not to reject them in reflex. I will not repeat the proposals I have made in committee. But I have proved to you, with some of the proposals, that you can avoid over-legislation and strengthen the effectiveness of the bill. So the fact that you reject this proposal is conceived and you are approaching the argument with two standards gives me reasonable suspicion of the content finally obtained from the forthcoming future ministerial decisions to be adopted, the applicable decisions of this law, which will obviously be adopted in accordance with the arbitrary crisis of the ministers. Is there a need to regulate the status of teleworking in the public sector? We believe that there is and is not only the pandemic conditions which cause this need, it is also the benefits of the officials who are able to work remotely, whether they wish to do so, or when the nature of the service allows it, but it is also the service which may be called, because of some exceptional circumstances and peculiar difficulties, to show some flexibility and to redefinite the needs. So this is a reality that is not questioned, but from there on, the bill, in the form it has taken, does it, as far as possible, regulate the various individual and important issues? Here we have serious reservations and objections. Our objections, as we have already raised in committee, are mainly to do with the fact that the greater weight is unfortunately shifting to the shoulders of the officials, while at the same time inactivity of the service as an employer. So this is the main, most worrying feature of the bill horizontally. The worker, in other words, is called upon to take responsibility in certain critical cases, which are normally the responsibility of the employer. You are forcing him, in order to have access to the possibility of work, to provide some guarantees which are not appropriate to him. Examples include the presumption of the suitability of the place where the work is provided, which is essentially transferring individual responsibility to the worker to ensure the health and safety conditions of the place where the work is carried out. In fact, there is a question. If the place is not suitable at the end of the day, if the conditions of the place of employment are not appropriate, and the worker points it to the employer, there is what the employer will think, that he refuses to provide his work, that he is prejudicing work? I'm asking a question. Also, serious problems from the silence of the bill on the serious issue of the occupational accident - I told the committee - and of course on the issue of private equipment. So, on the one hand, it is certainly welcome to read in Article 17 that teleworkers should enjoy the same rights and have the same obligations as the worker who provides the work in a natural presence, but on the other hand, we see that some other points in the bill ultimately contradict this rightful commitment and end up with some undoing it as some point. So in keeping with this conclusion, I would like to insist on the quite problematic article 12 on the teleworking station, because the other articles I analysed in the committee. So Article 12, which exceptionally allows the worker to use his own equipment, will not exceptionally do so. This will certainly become the absolute rule. In other words, the question is whether one really believes that equipment and support will eventually be provided by the public. We say this because the operation has already shown that, with personal computers and the infrastructure of employees, teleworking has been set up. The teleworking industry and the teleworking industry will thus also be set up, even at the same time at the same time as at the same time as at the same time as at the same time as at the same time as at the same time. You insist on this provision, despite the fact that many independent bodies at the hearing of the bodies have expressed their complete opposition to it, and also the risk of leaking the personal data of the carrier. I would remind you of what the Greek Information Association said: 'There are data security issues in the existing draft law, and indeed serious for both the state data and the state information systems and for the personal data of the citizens of every worker who is in the teleworking of the public and for his own employees - the data is at risk as well as for his family. The reason is that the draft law, as it stands now, allows the use of the employee's personal computer. Our proposal is that the service should provide the workstation, the computer, and that computer should include certain specific security measures, which will, of course, fall within the entire infrastructure on the part of the State for teleworking." In addition to this huge risk, of course, there is also a question of principle in relation to the appropriate behaviour of the public as an employer. We know the means of doing the job ourselves and not the worker. The public cannot be imitated here, followed by the characteristic abusive example - I mentioned it - of distribution officials, from whom they are asked to work on their own vehicles. Save where even in these unacceptable cases the distributor may use his vehicle and not work. In contrast, here, the teleworker is not allowed to use private equipment for his or her personal needs. So how is it possible to support this unacceptable practice? Of course, despite the fact that I have pointed it out to you, we see that there is nothing to say, silence, about subsidising the costs of officials, when in the end the accounts - precisely because of the teleworking of services of general interest - will exceed the average domestic consumption. So there you are calling again on the teleworker to pay from his pocket the costs of heating, electricity and telecommunications, so you are not at all concerned about the fact that these costs will be paid from his pocket, since he will already get paid paid wages from the entire decade of the memorandum. I'm closing down with a reference to the provisions on the exams at the National School of Public Administration. As other Members have pointed out, the changes to the status of the examinations should be implemented by the subsequent competition, with a transitional provision. This requires that the legitimate expectations of the governor, the citizen, the administration and the obligation of the state of administration do not surprise the citizen. So let us take a reasonable time, so that everyone can respond to the new facts, assimilate them and be able to respond unresponsively and properly. What we really need to be concerned about - and I am ending with this - is the functionality, the effectiveness of the provisions, so that, on the one hand, they can be effective and, on the other hand, guarantee protection in three key areas: first, equal and proper working life, as we see here, with teleworking clearly and risking the elasticity of labour relations, secondly, we must be concerned about security in the leakage of data processed electronically and, of course, the continuity of the service. Unfortunately, what we are seeing is that the bill fails to ensure, to give full and adequate guarantees to all three critical conditions. As far as the amendments are concerned, I shall refer to my second. But, Minister, I must denounce the fact that you are presenting them to only five. It is not just a question of amendments. These are whole bills. We must finally stop this ruthless practice of the government. I myself had pointed out at some point that, until now, you, Minister, if you are listening to me, are applying good legislation, not making any amendments that are irrelevant, of the last minute. At the moment we see that you are undoing this policy and obviously denounce it, because you are following the very bad example of the government in general. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mrs. Adamopoulou. We'll start with the list. Since you will see many fall from New Democracy, the reason is that two, three colleagues from SYRIZA have asked me not to erase them, because they are outside with the strikers. Mr Constantinidis will therefore be the first to speak, secondly, Mrs Evangelia Likiolis, thirdly, Mrs Heads Maria. If, until then, Mr. Zachariadis and Mr. Mamulakis are here to speak, otherwise Mrs. Alexopoulou and Mr. Melas will take the floor. Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr President. The draft law, ladies and gentlemen, is top legislation, not because it deals with sharp conflict issues, but because it introduces timely regulations and modern tools to public administration. Globally, teleworking is widespread, especially in the private sector, where it was introduced about four decades ago. In practice it means that someone can work from distance, even from home, by using new technological means. For many it is a conscious choice, since it gives them greater flexibility and benefit in time and money. And it makes sense, considering that a man in his full working life can spend close to two years of his life only on the journeys from home to work and vice versa. Just as shocking is the cost. It could cost him that ride. Teleworking has significant benefits, especially for some workers, people with temporary or even permanent difficulties in moving, workers with the responsibility of caring for third parties or living away from work. But also for society as a whole, since it reduces traffic and accidents, it dismantles modes of transport, reduces energy consumption and environmental footprint, reduces the spread of diseases, reduces infrastructure costs in workplaces. Finally, it has benefits for workers themselves, since it improves the balance between their personal working life and reduces travel costs. But until the pandemic, remote work had not experienced much blossom. Characteristics in a decade, from 2009 to 2019, teleworking - occasionally or more stable - in the European Union rose from 12.4% to 16.1%. According to Greece, from 4.3% to 5.3% only. In the pandemic, of course, the situation changed dramatically. In the first wave of 37% of workers in the European Union - more than 1/3 previously employed in the workplace - were integrated into a teleworking scheme. This figure was then set at 25%. Of the indicative elements alone, it is obvious that this model has been pushed down because of the particular circumstances. All estimates, however, say that, in view of the global insecurity and of the advantages it presents, remote work came to stay, both in the public and in the private sectors. Where, therefore, there was not enough framework, it had to be created and this was done in a direct way before the pandemic unresolved by two legislative interventions. This draft law on the public sector and the so-called 'working' for the private sector, which is discussed at the same time in the committee responsible, so that we will have the opportunity to refer to the respective flexibility that ensures the private employment relationship, although, as it seems, this debate will be squeezed down by other flexible arrangements, in which opposition propaganda has given monstrous features. In a way, the majority rapporteur gave the provisions of the draft, which constitute an integrated framework for the implementation of teleworking. Therefore, the purpose, object and scope of reference are specified, with the express exceptions for teachers and uniforms. It sets out its basic principles, i.e. its clearly voluntary nature - unless they are reasons for the staff member's health or a threat to public health or to any other emergency - the rule of equal treatment between workers and non-personnel workers, the time limits and the place of supply of the telework. Further set out the organisation’s obligations, education and continuous information for employees, ensuring access to the information systems of the organisation and using personal data files safely. Subsequently the essential issues, such as its time limits, are regulated up to forty-four working days per calendar year, which are necessarily taken over within a period of three months. And there is, of course, no exception to the summer holiday period. The maximum percentage of staff per address permitted to work shall also be set at 25% of those whose duties are compatible with teleworking, the obligation of the operator to provide the staff member with a teleworking station, maintenance and upgrading of equipment, jobs eligible for telework and procedures for the submission of a request by the worker and a decision by the administration and, of course, the right to disconnect him after the end of his working hours. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In this matter we must restore the truth, which the deforming lens of counterpopulation has attempted to alter. The New Democracy MEPs have never voted against the right of workers to disconnect. They voted in favour together with the amendment on the adjustment time for the Member States. Did that mean some sort of feasibility? Nothin'. Evidently, as is apparent from the fact that the government is voting for it directly, that is today. So fire's ashes. Very important and the interventions of the second part for the evaluation, disciplinary procedure, employment, the appointment of a relative deceased official, the possibility for OTAs of mountain and island areas to provide free feeding and accommodation for their employees. The draft law therefore contributes to the State's digital transformation, to the strengthening of workers, who become familiar with the use of computer media, learn to organise their work autonomously and to have a better working and private life balance. We are therefore going through another model of administration, based on goals and results, rather than surveillance in the narrow sense. We are therefore voting in favour of another piece of legislation from the Ministry of Interior, which tends to be a homogeneous and balanced upgrade of the public sector with the private sector. The Minister has promised us new areas and reforms. The longer they will happen, the more the vote of confidence in the country, as with yesterday's success, will be confirmed to take the lowest interest rate in the ten-year bonds for 13 years. Mr. Deputy Minister, thank you very much for including the proposal of the Municipality of Serbs in the program "ANITONIS TRITIS" to upgrade the road network. It's very important. First of all, I call on you and I ask you to consider the demands of Western Macedonia and the Kozani Regional Unit, due to the special circumstances there. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Constantinidis. The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr. Evangelia Likaolis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I come from the gathering of a protest which is multitude, Minister. I looked at you, but I didn't see you. I wasn't impressed I didn't see you at the gathering. But I was impressed by the fact that you have said at times, Minister, that you are where the people are and everyone are. So today, at this gathering, there were a lot of people. And I saw it was probably everyone. So that's why you're gone. The world is on the streets, however, and this cannot leave Parliament intact today's debate on a bill that we are discussing today, on teleworking, absolutely necessary. You should've taken care of this bill in the details. You didn't. If you had asked us and asked the Anti-Population Orders to assist in this process, something clever they would definitely have to tell you. But the bill we are debating today from the labour legislation is overshadowed. As you know, there are now very serious changes, dramatic changes and dramatic developments in the country on this one. We cannot close our eyes, as tyre working hours are now institutionalised, collective labour contracts are being abolished, we have individual responsibility and individual contract dominated. We still have more flexibility of work, the infamous'refresh' instead of a reward in Greece today, in which you want to show that you will also have a control mechanism, which will scan them all and control them all. But this control mechanism does not exist and you are trying to discover it, but only in the theory of thought and not in practice. So it is Greece on the streets today and it is all Greece on the streets today. You're missing the image, Minister. As far as today's bill you are bringing, it is a necessary bill, a required bill, a first step - we consider - to establish the newly known Greek situation data. Who, after all, can support the opposite? I think only someone who has approached this particular issue politically or micronomically when we really had catalytic conditions in the last 15 months of pandemic, 15 months of fear, 15 months of work entering a completely different context, lockdown, business, residual and feeling of drowning, problems in life and mental health, which are now beginning to seem one to one and the indicators already suggest it. A situation, of course, typical of the example of this, has also had the residual function of Parliament, Mr Ministers. And that, of course, is a reservation as to whether some people were in a position to take a very important piece of legislation, by way of exception, with provisions requiring serious consultation and debate, which has never taken place. So the hui of the circumcised procedures is still following us today. Because in this bill you also found, Minister, the opportunity to respond to practices in which you know that we do not agree. In fact, I remember that, when you first took office of a Minister, after Mr Theodorikos, you promised the relevant Civil Service Committee that, firstly, you would never surprise us, secondly, that you would give us the agenda for the debates and, thirdly, that you would never bring any amendments, except if necessary, absolutely necessary, you said, and always prepare for the Anti-Populations. Are all this done, you say today, I am convinced - I am also saying tax burden - when you say that you have actually brought this amendment to the National School of Public Administration?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u24	With a warning in advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u25	In advance, you will tell me, Minister. All these people you have in front of you, therefore, obviously consider them to be suffering from a disease. Either they don't have their senses or their emotions are overwhelmed. All these people who are systematically preparing for high-level examinations, you surprise them without at least being sensitive - I would say and you will allow me to say that although you know that I always kindly speak to your Ministers and Government - to warn both the terms and the way and the deadlines and the time periods, etc. The Government is changing the way in which the competition is conducted. That's the title, that's what you're doing. Is that right? Well done. We agree that that's what you're doing. So why should we cover it? You're changing it. So give this to the crisis of the Greek people and the citizens, especially those who have been involved in this process, to see how honest political it is. Here, Minister, you will allow me to say that there is a question of honesty in the procedure. In any case, what we are saying, Minister, is that this bill should not have such provisions. You should have let a'simply' discuss issues relating to today's bill, which is important, rather than becoming such a kind of political hat, and even miserable and even dishonorable. This is the view of the Change Movement and, indeed, our special rapporteur has stressed this infinitely, just like our parliamentary representative. Now some things that need to be stressed here are that as far as the bill comes, Mr Minister, an effective and fair institutional framework for teleworking in the public sector is concerned, it must be in regularity, which inevitably we hope and see it coming, the right of the civil servant and not the obligation. In addition, wage pay and labour rights should not be affected at all. We have pointed it out to all tons and in all ways. It must also be ensured that there are no disparities between teleworkers and non-workers, and that labour rights are fully guaranteed. Nor should the institution and the possibility of teleworking be a place of exile by the administration on a case-by-case basis, because there is also this version, if one considers the possibility in depth. In the last direction, in fact, the Change Movement, Mr Minister, tabled amendments which are very important, because firstly they are based on comments from the RESEMEA. There is one sensitivity to this issue, and I think that for the weakest and the least of them who have issues to deal with, you should listen to them with open ears and open minds. We therefore believe that at technical level the imperfections which have already been pointed out, both during the consultation of committees - and not before - and, of course, during this part-session, tend to show that again the bill has not come with sufficient discussion, that, unfortunately, the point of the draft law on the operation of a system for recording working time, as well as the status of officials who will cover the rate of teleworking per service, is still left to us. Unfortunately, you have not answered this convincingly for us and we have serious reservations about it. We hope that by the end of today's debate at least you will be able to respond to our proposals and positive ones, because as far as the rest of the day is concerned, it will remain charged until late in the evening, as in the next few days. Because it's prefecture, when you sow winds, you reap storms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Republic now has the floor, Mr Maria Kefala.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis that the whole planet is experiencing has admittedly affected many areas of our lives and our daily lives. Sectors which extend beyond the narrow sanitary limits to social, personal, professional and labour relations. New data, without precedent, have been created that require adaptation to them and to the state. One of these is teleworking, which, apparently, came to our lives in order to stay to a certain extent. And if, until first, the teleworking rates in our country and in most European countries were small, attributes to you - borrowed and data from the investigations of the International Labour Organisation, the European Foundation for the Improvement of Living and Working Conditions and EUROSTAT - that the percentage of employees in our country working with teleworking, mostly from home in 2012-2019, was about 2% as a percentage of total employment. The pandemic has brought an explosion in this area necessarily in the first phase of the war against the virus, so that we can drastically reduce the workers' exposure to it, but now that we are entering a new reality on a voluntary basis, having shown some positive results to some extent, both for businesses and for workers. Following the vote of today's bill, 25% of the officials per address or part of the government will be able to reach 25%, while by decision of the Minister of the Interior, at the reasoned request of the institution, this percentage can be increased by up to 50%. The government, by reading these changes, comes and brings the bill we are debating today, creating a single and modern institutional framework for the implementation of teleworking in public services, in order to adapt the Greek public to current social, economic and technological data. It is one of those cases where the intervention of the State is necessary to shield public health and the orderly functioning of the services of the State on the one hand and, on the other hand, to protect the rights of workers and the fundamental values of individual freedoms and personal data. It is important to establish an institutional framework for how to organise and manage work on the basis of common principles, methods of organisation and management of work, rules for data protection and confidentiality, rules for the use of information and communication technologies and all procedures under normal conditions and under crisis conditions. In particular, I would like to say that the nature of teleworking is voluntary, and in no case is it an official's official's service. A teleworker who does not wish to work in this way cannot be required to do so. It's a privileged field. Teleworkers enjoy the same rights and will have the same obligations as those working in a physical presence. In other words, the principle of equal treatment is guaranteed. We do not create first and second-class workers. We protect the privacy of the teleworker. Any system of control of working time which may be imposed by the operational needs of the organisation must be proportionate and limited to the objective pursued. Particular importance shall be attached to the protection of the staff member's personal data. The Agency shall take all appropriate measures to ensure the protection of personal data and shall not jeopardise them by maintaining the security levels of remote access for workers in the performance of their duties, as defined in existing national and European legislation. As a rule, teleworking may not exceed forty-four days in a calendar year and is intended to be taken within one quarter. This, together with the maximum percentage of teleworkers - which reach 25%, as mentioned above - ensures the rotation of employees who are given the opportunity to work from a distance. There are also exceptions, of course, which are explicitly provided for in the bill and which are related to health issues, to public health risks and to exceptional circumstances. We note that the possibility of teleworking ceases from 15 July to 31 August of each year. If nothing else, we are facing an innovation for the Greek public administration, the challenges we are called upon as a state to respond are many and imprinted. I am standing on some of them: the eligibility of the activities that can be integrated into this new framework, the protection of data, the management of human resources with new data, the organisation of work, the preservation of the collective climate between colleagues, the training of workers who wish to make use of the right, but feel that they are lag behind with the use of technology, the health and safety of personnel, the system of recording working time, the protection of the privacy of workers. As a state, we must also see the potential risks that can arise, such as the isolation of teleworkers, which can increase the inability to express themselves in the difficulties encountered in carrying out a task or in reduced access to information and the substantial inability to receive feedback. For all this and others that will emerge from its implementation in practice, we are ready to adapt and evolve. It is another big step that promotes the digital transformation of the public sector and shows that, when there is will, faith and open mind, we dare and succeed. Greece today is moving at the pace of a modern European country, taking the lead and laying the foundations for a public worthy of our developed partners, with workers in it and the possibilities offered by technology in our days, and in any case strengthens our arsenal so that we can manage in the future, since we are all absent - situations that are critical of the present period. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mrs Head, and the consistency in time. Mr Christina Alexopoulou has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the modernization of the public sector was and remains a major issue for the Greek citizen, who has been impatient for years waiting for endless tails, making dozens of routes between offices, floors, buildings, fighting with documents and forms and finally enjoying moderate benefits and services from the Greek state. However, for the civil servant himself, his daily friction and experience with an outdated work model in an outdated and often dysfunctional, dashing process system, slow and bureaucratic. We have been accustomed for many years to a public heavy, difficult, anachronistic and completely paper. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, from the first moment in its taking up its duties, has shown its clear orientation towards the digital transition of the public, its modernisation and its harmony with modern conditions. The gov.gr, the service platform to the citizen, within an unprecedented short period of time for Greek data, managed to incorporate thousands of processes and became a point of reference, while at the same time establishing a relationship of trust finally between the citizen and the state's digital transactions. The pandemic, of course, came as a catalyst to speed up this already methodical effort by the government, as remote work was imposed by reality and all had to be handled at a distance. However, despite this initial shock, the public sector throughout the health crisis continued to operate and serve the citizen, with any difficulties or delays, as a great deal of preparation and preparation had already been done. The readiness shown by the Greek state in the organization and operation of both teleworking and teleworking exceeded expectations even for the most pessimistic supporters and surprised even the most pessimistic critic. In the private sector, of course, and particularly in advanced countries, teleworking or teleworking has been a common practice for many years. In the field of information and communication technologies, in particular, knowledge and familiarization with new technologies and achievements of information technology make telework the rule rather than the exception. In our country this form of work was dealt with by a wall of suspicion and insecurity in terms of labour rights and personal data. But now that, even if we could barely say, we tried it, what happened is that teleworking liked us, it worked for us. The workers themselves understood the benefits they can have in the overall organization of their time and the harmonisation of their work with their private life. Not perhaps as a permanent form of work, but as an alternative and accompanying to the physical presence at the workplace. We are therefore also called upon today to harmonise our legislation with reality, to legislate on an integrated institutional framework for teleworking, so that the experience gained from the difficult period that we have experienced in implementing in practice and to help our public sector operate more effectively, for the benefit of both citizens and workers in this area. The bill under discussion soon and clearly lays down the rules for teleworking, defines the responsibilities and responsibilities of stakeholders and employees and sets the limits and guidelines. Teleworking is voluntary and serves a staff member who wishes for important personal reasons to work from a distance. It is clearly set in time and is a tool of the teleworker to better organize his time and privacy. Telework does not relieve workers of their obligations, but does not remove them from their rights. The provisions of law and collective agreements shall apply on the basis of the principle of equal treatment for all workers without exception. The draft law takes into account all those security protocols that will make the teleworking project practically possible while ensuring the integrity and protection of personal data that the public and the teleworker are handling. Finally, particular emphasis is placed on ensuring privacy and respect for the personal life of the teleworker, by legislating the confidentiality of his communications and by banning the reception, recording of image from the teleworking station. The way to implement teleworking is internationally tested and safe. Today we are simply deciding how we have the will to implement it. Ladies and gentlemen, the benefits of teleworking are not limited only to the employee's employment relationship with his institution or to the citizen's trade with the public. The extension and deepening of teleworking in the public and private sectors are economic, environmental and social. The facilitation of worker time management and the limitation of unnecessary movements of workers have a tangible impact on their everyday lives and on economics, but also on the time spent with their relatives or on their personal development. In addition, fewer movements may contribute significantly to reducing pollutants and exhaust emissions in towns and improving urban mobility for citizens. Reinforcement of teleworking could contribute to the elimination of inequalities of access to work for persons with reduced mobility or other disabilities. We could also use it as a tool for the apocalyptic Brain gain to attract Greeks abroad, who, institutionally and officially, will be able to help their city, our country, workers from their homes. Information and communication technologies are there to help us improve our lives, our country and our world. In our private and professional lives we use them daily, saving time and expenses, speeding up our work and strengthening our productivity. It is up to us to use them in the best way in the public sector, by modernising its procedures and by increasing its effectiveness. The country's digital transformation is in the interests of all of us, which is why we are voting in favour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u30	We too thank Mrs Alexopoulou and the consistency in time. I am now going to give the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Petsa, the floor in order to place him on the amendment with a general number of 922 and a special 101. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Most of the articles in this amendment relate to the coronary pandemic and the continuing consequences that it brings, and that is why some interventions are needed. In particular, Article 1(1) in accordance with Article 53(1) of Law No 4735/2020 requires the management bodies of municipal day-to-day and day-to-day facilities to have completed the procedures for the inventory of all movable and immovable property contained in their ownership by 12 to 2021 at the latest. However, measures to deal with the pandemic have led to delays in the completion of these procedures. For this reason it is necessary to grant an extension for the completion of the census procedures for all movable and immovable assets contained in the ownership of the legal persons referred to in Article 26 of the d.410/1995 for legal persons who have not completed the procedure. Therefore, by the rated arrangement, the final date of completion of the necessary inventory operations shall be postponed until 31 December 2021. At the same time, in the interests of completeness, it is foreseen that an extract from the approved act of the coordinator of the relevant decentralised inventory management describing the property acquired by the legal person, as well as other property rights, by means of the summary provided for in Article 9 of Royal Decree 533/1963, shall be registered free of charge in the relevant records of the competent property office over the competent mortgage office within 15 days of the authorisation. With Articles 2 and 3, we come and deal with the question of the regulation of debts created during the pandemic period. The previous provisions concerned debts created from February 2020 to 28 February 2021. Since, however, the pandemic and its consequences continue, the duration of these debts is extended until 30 June 2021, thus for four months of extension and, respectively, the possibility of adjusting these debts to up to a hundred instalments by the citizens or those who are generally debtors to the municipalities is extended until 31 October. At the same time, as the planned platform, which was intended to regulate these debts, has not been able to operate until now, alternative ways are available to regulate these debts electronically to TAs. With Article 4, we have the issue of rentals. As you recall, a two-year extension for rents that had not yet expired had been granted, but a period of time had elapsed between 1 January 2021 and mid-April 2021, until the entry into force of the previous legislation required to have expired, in order to extend. This restriction is now rejected and the possibility of two-year extensions without this restriction and for reasons of clarification is also taken into account for the credits which were in force and which had not expired on 11-6-2021, as well as those which may have expired from 1-1-2021 until 11-6-2021. It is therefore the provision concerning the arrangements for cage rentals. With Article 5, we have a complement and clarification for reasons of purely interpretative nature in relation to the loan contracts concluded by the Deposit and Loan Fund with municipalities for the implementation of the projects of the "ITIS ANITIS" Programme, always in consultation with the Deposit and Loan Fund and the Ministry of Finance, in order to ensure that the particularly complex projects under the "ITIS ANITY" Programme, such as cultural or complex technical aspects, comply with the loan rules in accordance with the fund's statute. With Article 6, we come and add eight positions to the organization concerning Europe's cultural capital, in this case Elefsina, from twenty-eight places, in order to carry out this very important task, both for the image of the country and of course the city of Elefsina. Article 7 of the amendment gives legislative authority to the Minister for the Interior to propose the adoption of a Presidential Decree to codify in a single text the provisions on the financing of political parties and parties coalitions by the State, revenue, expenditure and control of the political parties' economics, parties' coalitions and candidates or members of the Greek Parliament and the European Parliament. This authorisation is necessary and appropriate, in particular in view of the fact that such codification does not include any legislative change or modification of the existing provisions. Finally, Article 8 of the amendment, Mr President, extends the mandate of the management bodies of legal persons operating under Articles 78 et seq. of the Civil Code for professional and trade union organisations, sports associations and associations of parents of primary and secondary education and unions set up and operating in accordance with the provisions of Article 53 of Law 1566/1985 in order to ensure their smooth operation and thus provide a sufficient period of time for the conduct of antiquities in view of their failure to conduct them, which is due to measures to counteract the horn pandemic. Especially in the case of sports associations, the provision applies only in the case of associations within the meaning of Article 10 of Law 2725/1999, in view of the different legal and factual data governing federations in Article 19 of that Law. This is because the latter were, for the most part, able to and indeed took advantage of the prediction that antiquities should be carried out by means of an electronic vote, thus omitted from the vote, in the middle of the year in which the Summer Olympics were held. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u32	Thank you too, Minister. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Charalambos Mamoulakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, ladies and gentlemen, let me take this before I enter the essence of today's bill to convey a climate that exists in the center of Athens, with a full picture as an eyewitness. I think it is an excellent effort in the whole of the world of work to resist the guerrillas of the government and this profound counter-reformation which takes place or tries to take place next week and here in the plenary sitting, in addition to the committees. It is a reaction of the world heirous, from the whole spectrum of the workplace, which essentially demonstrates what society is highlighting in every way, in every way, in every tomb. What? That it's a bill that turns us back decades and shows it in the clearest way out here on Syntagma Square. From Klathmonos Square, from Korai, from Stadium to the edges of Syntagma square, a crowd of people have been gathered permanently. And that is why we thank the government, because I believe that it creates a strong conflict in the whole of Anti-Population, and that is something that I think will be recorded politically, but which will then be capitalised. Now, as far as the draft law is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, the coronary pandemic has undoubtedly accelerated trends in the transformation of work that have already been under way. The expansion of communication and information technologies, the expansion of broadband and the expansion of digital literacy in most European countries, all of this had already created before the pandemic the possibility of transferring a large part of intellectual work to a digital and remote environment. These processes involve terrible, very important possibilities for economies and countries that can incorporate new digital technologies in the entire range of their production, and therefore also the international competitiveness of economies in the tertiary main sector is very much a matter for the existence of high-speed networks and the presence of labour with digital specific skills. However, this transformation also poses significant risks. It threatens workers with the complete abolition of their privacy, threatens workers by abolishing their working time and threatens the sanctity of home and family life through the invasion of our time with our own people, with our children, the obligations of a working space that has neither beginning nor end. The pandemic accelerated these tendencies in the transformation of the work and the daily lives of the workers and brought workers to our country in the state of pandemic emergency in the face of the hard new reality. Teleworking is a possibility, but also a threat. Teleworking, ladies and gentlemen, does not contribute - as the explanatory statement of the law you have brought us to the vote - to the best balance between working and private life. Teleworking threatens the balance between work and family life. In this context, in principle, the current government's initiative is in a positive direction, but with two key asterisks. Firstly, the current regulation of teleworking in the public sector is indulging in the interests of institutional consolidation of the deregulation of the private sector and because of teleworking, which, of course, leads to the abortion of Mr Hatzidakis, which I mentioned earlier. Secondly, with the observation that we all assume that today's draft law, the nine pages and nineteen articles that you brought us do regulate something and do not constitute a communication firework. Ladies and gentlemen, if we give a high school student to write a report of ideas on this issue of the teleworking of his parents after two years of incarceration, I think he will do better than Mr Voridis and his team of legal aid. Unfortunately, today's law, Minister, is a report of ideas. I imagine, of course, that a high school student, unlike Mr Voridis, would put a finger on the type of sunshine in order to answer the basic questions put to the public. It would not only say, for example, that personal data are sacred and that we must protect them, but it would also describe the procedure through which this protection will take place. In other words, it would clearly and categorically say that the registration of workers is forbidden and would not leave the windows which leave Article 6 of this bill. It would give specific content to voluntary participation in teleworking rather than creative lack of volunteering and would clearly define what these exceptional circumstances and needs are, as referred to in Article 7(3), on which a worker is essentially obliged to work remotely. Contact with a coronary case is an extraordinary treaty, and I think we all agree on it. But is this an emergency treaty and a strike? Is this an emergency treaty and what's going on out here in Syntagma Square, by a crowd of workers? Is trade union action an extraordinary treaty? I also imagine that a student in his report would provide for cases where a worker would have to work remotely and would not have left this decision at the discretion of the supervisor, as does the present draft law in Article 14. If a civil servant tomorrow asks to work from home, is this a sign of a loss of zeal for his work? Will it be evaluated negatively for that? Finally, I imagine that a high school student would have been informed by his parents that computers are not available anywhere free of charge and that someone's phone bill pays him, which, unfortunately, also the authors of this draft law ignore. However, all these critical remarks, ladies and gentlemen, become good faith, assuming that even from a communication bubble a little bit can come in the direction of regulating work. However, what is really unforgivable, Minister - and I am thinking of you, Mr Petsa, is absent from Mr Vorides - is the amendment on how to enter the National School of Public Administration, with the unacceptable provision for its implementation directly to the first grand contest of the National School of Public Administration and Government since 2011, with the unacceptable depreciation of so many young people who have been preparing for this competition and, above all, the undemocratic and old-fashioned addition of the institution of interview to another institution of recruitment of staff in the general public. After PPC, we now have the National School of Public Administration and Government. For this initiative, the Minister has no excuse, no cause, no fig sheet, to cover his clear purpose. Mr Vorides only wants to resurrect a state with certificates of social ideas of light, in which interview will act as a filter for people with dangerous, or democratic, ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not know whether Mr Mitsotakis' government is the worst government in the post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipal. Competition with the government of Mr Samaras is a great deal, the fight is a truly dubious one. But I am sure that Mr Mitsotakis' government is the most roustephetological government in the country from 1989 to 1993! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Mamulaki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u35	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u36	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, I am asking for the floor for a reply. What does the competition of the National School of Public Administration and Government have to do with all this on the revival of old-fashioned mechanisms? I'm the same graduate of the National School of Public Administration. And then today and tomorrow is a fair competition. It's not exams. It's a competition for the best to pass through to serve the public administration we want. I also participated in the National School of Public Administration Alumni, when Mr Scandalidis was Minister of Interior. None of those who have passed through the Ministry of Interior want that kind of thing for the National School of Public Administration. If the competition changes with so many months ahead, those who are interested know better than anyone that they have to face a big competition, because the positions are limited and the duty is great. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, too. The speaker of New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Melas, now has the floor. Immediately after the speech, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement will be given Mr. Scandalidis. Here you go, Mr. Mela.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic of the coronary is undoubtedly the biggest global crisis our world has experienced in its modern history. It is a crisis for which no state, even more advanced, was prepared to face. This crisis did not have a management manual either in the battlefield or in the economic field of the battle, so that each state would give its own examinations to the process of dealing with it. Great states and powerful governments, with powerful economies and health systems, collapsed, while others, with many weaker economies and weaker health systems, managed to stand up. Greece is among these countries. Greece in this global health crisis managed to stand up. It earned Europe's trust. He won the trust of powerful states and governments in the world. He earned the trust of the markets. Yesterday, our country was once again pumped through the EUR 2.5 billion ten-year bond, at a very low interest rate of only 0.9%, while since July 2019 and until now, in all this global turmoil, the Greek Government has raised EUR 27.5 billion on particularly favourable terms. So when we say they trust us, it's nothing vague. It's something specific, and it's captured in numbers. But let's go further. In this unprecedented economic crisis the Greek Government had to ensure both the protection of public health and the functioning of our economy. It was therefore necessary to develop the state's digital transformation in a very short time. In order to understand, however, all of us in this Chamber, but also outside of here, the work done by the Ministry of Digital Governance and the Ministry of Interior, which concerns the public sector, as well as the entire government for the digital transformation of the public sector, I will mention the following. Just in September 2020, under article 99 of Law 4727/2020, the fax was abolished in public and today, a few months later, we are debating in the plenary session to define the framework for the teleworking of the public sector in our country. I will mention another element that shows the very good and drunken work that has been done on the digital transformation of public function. Our country until December 2019 was on the US Ministry of Commerce '301' list, a list that, among other things, includes countries where unauthorized software is being handled. Greece is therefore not included in this list for 2020, as according to the US Trade Ministry the Greek Government has taken serious steps to limit the widespread use of unauthorised software in the Greek State by finding funds to buy software usage rights. So the deletion of Greece from this list also positively affects the investments in the technology sector in our country, such as the one already announced by "MICROSOFT". In all this, therefore, the steps and leaps that have taken a very short time before the Greek Government in the digital transformation of the state also adds the current bill to define the institutional framework for teleworking in the public sector. What are the basic principles of this new framework? The nature of teleworking is optional, workers take part if they want to. The wage and service development of civil servants is not affected, but it is simply an alternative form of work. Teleworkers enjoy the same rights and maintain the same obligations as those which are not under the teleworking scheme, i.e. there is no different treatment. The time and way of teleworking will be shaped according to the service needs. Protection of personal data and respect for the privacy of workers in a teleworking regime are guaranteed. With these basic principles, therefore, the model of teleworking in public administration will work. There are clear time limits and limitations. With this in mind, then, a bill seeks to strengthen labour productivity, facilitate health problems, balance between work and social life, efficient management of work in times of crisis, such as the one we are now living in, the promotion of digital transformation of the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, it is particularly important - and we must stand by this - to train civil servants to eliminate digital illiteracy. So the National Public Administration Centre will have a decisive role to play in this. In fact, as the Minister has said in committee, there is already an agreement with MICROSOT. This agreement concerns the training of civil servants in new technologies and already applies a pilot project on this basis, a programme of modern and adapted to international technological developments, which could be extended to the whole of the public. Ladies and gentlemen, the formulation of the institutional framework for teleworking in the public sector is a necessary treaty The digital organisation of the state and the public sector is a chapter in our society. In addition, we can see this every day: with the 'ELDRERIA' plan for the vaccination of citizens, an excellent design, without problems and delays. And they deserve congratulations to the relevant ministries and to all those involved in this. With the gov.gr, which a thousand hundred and sixty-eight services are offered quickly and directly, effectively, to the citizens. And every day the gov.gr is enriched with new services to citizens. With the Green Digital Certificate from gov.gr, which is the health passport for safe travel, a proposal by the Greek Prime Minister, adopted by the European Union. And from yesterday the television coverage action in the country's 'white areas' is available. The pandemic is over, people are changing. New tools, mostly technological, gain ground. New forms of work are emerging in both the private and public sectors. For the private sector, we will also have the opportunity to discuss it in the legislation of the Ministry of Labour. Our responsibility is not to stay behind all of this, to follow the future closely, so that we can form the framework for the operation of all these new tools and the new procedures and conditions that we are called upon to follow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u40	And we thank Mr. Mela. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I think you're going on with the worst practice of bad lawmaking. Let me begin with the simplest, the storm of the amendments. I would say not only that, which is in complete contrast with what you are doing for the parliamentary procedure, but today you are inaugurating with this bill and the policy of half the law. The policy of half the law has been launched before in tax, for example. You bring a bill, you say 'the biggest reform later'. In insurance you bring some provisions, you say 'the biggest reform later'. In self-government, of course, because the 2024 electoral law was preceded by the great reform that you have announced about self-government. This policy of half the law is today also being done in the particular subject of your bill. You regulate the occasional rather than full teleworking, interoperable and technical, functionality devices. It does not fall within an overall regulatory framework of work organisation. More stems from the fact that you have experienced the pandemic experience, you have seen that this thing cannot be avoided and you have tried to adapt it to the conservation policy measures and, at the same time, act on the experience you have had in these months. But the theme of the next day and teleworking goes beyond your pandemic experience. It is a question of the wider development and working relationships of a new age, and you should be more committed and more respectful to the substance of a reform that is needed, which is linked to the wider workplace - not to the way your current position, your current proposal - is linked to the other proposal that the government brings to the workplace. There is therefore an attempt, first of all, to complete modernisation, which comes into total contrast with what is happening in the wider area of work and employment. Today the country is on the way to a comprehensive intervention of your Government in the field of work and rights, which is a monument of anachronism and regression. It is only an intervention that it sees in the past. It is an intervention which is essentially counter-reform. This law mobilised thousands of people throughout Greece today against the dismantling of labour relations, the dramatic change in the labour market, the direction of total flexibility, the reduction of pay, the release of redundancies, the weakening of collective negotiations and the limitation of the right to trade and strike. It has nothing to do with half the law on modernization with this monument of anachronism that comes today and which abolishes every European acquis. The greatest vision that the current Prime Minister has had and what he has been repeating many years ago, since he took over the leadership of the New Democracy, not the government, is his reformist role, the need for reform, the need for major changes. Well, in this area you are making a real counter-reformation, with a certain economic aspect, which is not the reduction of incomes, but the inability of the people of work to be able to agree on their minimum wage. At a time when all over the world and especially in the United States, the minimum wage is growing spectacularly. You enforce your law, that we decide what this policy will be. There is the social aspect of the counter-reformation, which is the jungle in the labour market. You are taking a worker who is currently guaranteed, to the extent that he has them, rights. You turn every collective agreement into an individual, its relationship with the businessman. You're liberating redundancies. You give him the opportunity to go to refereeship, if for any reason the businessman arbitrarily fires him. It decides that the Arbitration should re-enter him and in your law you say: No, he may even fire him, not re-enter him, let him take a recompense. And you lead him to the jungle, to the block, to the uninsured, to the total free time, to overtime that is not paid, to an absolute collapse of any possibility of collective reaction on its part to a business power. It is the social aspect of counter-reformation. There is also the political aspect of the counter-reformation. It is the between economic and political interests in the context of today's exercise of power, which a conservative government really wants to impose the wills of this unity of interests on society. This, unfortunately, did not appear at first in your government. Every day, however, it becomes more obvious. Of course, it is the ideological aspect of the counter-reformation, which is of enormous importance. It's the abolition of collective work at every level. It is the possibility that you can give capital, work, business and power to shape conditions in which it turns the citizen into a passive private person. Collegiate made him a citizen. He made him not just a contender of his demands and interests, made him a partaker on a course. So when work is dismantled in such a way at the heart of the productive and development process, it is clear that your Government cannot speak of a complete development of productive forces in the context of a new start, rebooting, the country and a prosperity and hope that comes in the coming years. It is completely inverse what is happening with this bill. You are, of course, pressing on in a reality, in a public opinion, in a public sense, which, in the circumstances of today's crisis, feels insecure, because it cannot define its life and actually react in the way it could react at another time. This is a neo-conservative policy, the policy of a neo-right, which takes away from society the right to determine its life. That is what I am warning you, however, that it is timely that the cracks began. And if the cracks began with the previous "reform" bills you brought, with what you are trying next week and what the Greek people are today demonstrating, unfortunately this crack becomes a schism. And I invite you to come down from the seat of pilgrimism, self-sufficiency you have and the arrogance you are displaying, so easily, so recklessly, proposals that constitute a truly monumental anachronism for the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Please prepare the Step and take the floor of SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, thank you. Minister, Mr Petsa, we must at some point stop this dreadful way of legislating, this rain of amendments, with other legislative material, starting on the first day and another bill being passed. What are you doing with the National School of Public Administration and Government? You're playing with people's agony. You bring an amendment without consultation and re-order the matter and the procedure shortly before the next competition. Does the competition need to change? Sure. Open up the debate, place ourselves, place the other parties as well, place the people who are democratically responsible and make the changes from the aftermath. What's the rush? I have been informed, Mr Petsa - and unfortunately Mr Vorides is not here - that tomorrow the Prime Minister will not be able to answer the Chief of Staff Response on the issue of party overcompensation and lending. This is your portfolio. There is an absolute silence on the subject, which is a major scandal in the midst. Unfortunately, there is also deafening silence in Parliament, despite the institutional obligation. The country's getting into financial crisis with your Bankruptcy Code. Natural persons are bankrupt and bankrupt, families are broken up, once the suspension of the restriction has been lifted, and New Democracy lives in another world. It could increase her debts. They're eating and drinking in suckers' health. They are looting the public, charging it to poster, making gifts to private sector departments, of course always in exchange, billing their party. And all that is paid by the Greek people. That's great! How, then, will the debt of the New Democracy be paid? What did Mr Mitsotakis say in 2010 and what is the case today? If, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you cannot put your party's finances in order, how can you put a country in order if you cannot house your own house? And the joke is that you're playing it out of your hands and capable of governing it, you, who've gone bankrupt in your party and you can't bring it back. Now let's go to Mr. Hatzidakis' bill, which is now filling the streets of Athens with protesters in both years of the Mitsotakis government is the biggest course, it's the largest gathering, it's the most powerful in the pulse that's happened. It's a signal that your absolute monocracy and the intact of your government has long been over. It is a sign that you cannot come and legislate what you want, without having voice and resistance both in Parliament and in society. But I really would like to ask, Mr Pecha: since this private sector bill is so good, do you think about transferring it to the public too? So, how will civil servants collect their olives if such a bill does not apply to the public as well? Why this injustice against the public? How will civil servants see their children on Friday if such a bill does not apply to the public sector? Why these privileges only in the private sector? I would also like to put an ideological issue here, which Mr Voridis would like to hear, because he likes ideological and answers nicely. The New Republic of Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Mitsotakis with their individual contracts on the substance is shifted from the liberal right, the centre right of Mr Karamanlis and Mr Samaras to the hard neoliberal right. What you are attempting by changing contracts from collective to individual is also shifting and altering the nature of your own party. We are not talking about intervening in your internals - do your party as you like - but about having a serious ideological debate if there is neoliberalism in Greece, what neoliberalism means and who legislates it. So this bill, which fills the streets, is an order on substance. It's an order of great interests. Because that government is. You are the government that is enacting on order: at the request of the large groups, at the request of the large companies, who are delinquent and want flexible and subtracted overtime, of the large tourist groups that want flexibility and endless hours of work. You are not the party that was election to vote on you, why would they have better paid and more quality jobs? These are the best paid jobs that people lose their income, as I'll explain soon? Aren't you the party you electionfully said that for each unit of growth in the economy we will have a 2% increase in the minimum wage? Where is it, Mr. Pecha, a 2% increase in the minimum wage for each unit? You voted in Parliament in December that the Greek economy will grow by 4.9% in 2021. Based on your commitment and legalisation, this should lead to an increase in the minimum wage of 4.9% by two. The committee is now coming and says 3.9%, 3.5%, 3.3%. Give an increase of 3% on two, 6% on the minimum wage. You were talking about it. These are the slogans you won the election with. You did not win the election by saying, for example, to a salesman working in a supermarket and paid EUR 650 and who will today work two hours overworking and receive an additional EUR 9,36, that the proposed bill will not get anything. That's a pay cut. These are the good paid positions! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like, if I can, to have a minute, Mr President. You did not tell the builder who, if he works today, with today's overtime, will get 9 euros per hour with a 20% increase, 21,6 euros, that Mr Hatzidakis' bill will take nothing. You did not say that in an election. That's a pay cut. You did not tell the staff who works at hotels, who now have a collective labour contract and with a two-year pre-service will get EUR 1,008, that when there is no collective labour contract, it will receive a salary of EUR 715. You did not say that in an election. Now you're doing it. You did not say in the election to an electrician who, due to the collective labour contract, takes EUR 825 today, that when there is no, with the Hatzidakis bill, it will take 650 euros. So here's who you are. You are the ones who want the individual negotiation, the ones who are squeezing the wages, the ones who dismantle the daily lives of the citizens, the ones who put the employer on the same table as the worker. Anyone who knows exactly what you are doing today, Mr President, knows the basics from the history of the labour movement. And because we have also had a debate on what we have done over these days, I will say: we have received unemployment at 26% and delivered it to 18%. We received the minimum wage at 480 and 580 euros and took it to 650, that is, an increase of 22% and 11%. We received youth unemployment at 40% and delivered it to 23%. We received the reported and undeclared work in 19.5% and delivered it to 11%. And, of course, what we did wasn't enough. That is why we will return, with the people's vote, to governance and we will do more. But we will always be on the right side of history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u44	The Minister has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to comment on what Mr Zachariadis said. It was not at all mentioned in the bill, but in other issues of topicality. As regards the issues of the economy, where the economy was and where you took it, the Greek people know that very well and honoured you with his vote on it. As to where the economy goes today, the best mirror is the trust shown by investors and markets in the Greek economy. Last proof yesterday's very successful issue of ten-year bonds at historically low interest rates, when the country since 2019, since the elections, has borrowed more than 25 billion euros from the mid-century market, with historically low interest rates. This is recognized by everyone. Now, where do you see the disaster, you can substantiate it to the citizens who hear you. As far as the finances of the New Democracy are concerned, I will say: Look, you are talking about borrowing. The New Democracy did not get a loan from the election of Mr. Mitsotakis. Zero, the new bank loan. The increase is only observed due to interest and clear responses have been given. From 2016 27.5 million interest until 2020, which reached 38.1 million. It is the only cause of the increase in the total amount owed by the New Democracy. No new lending all this time since the election of Mr. Mitsotakis. As for the operational expenses of the New Democracy, we know our members and all those who have lifted the burden of the party to stand up when you were trying to strangle us. With regard to the effort that has been made to streamline the resources given by the citizens to the political parties, you know the brave decisions that we made during the crisis that took place. So you cannot tell us about New Democracy's finances when you have too many shadows in yours. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u46	Mr Athanasios Ljupi has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the last year teleworking has been dynamically in our lives and, without any adjustment, we have all had to integrate it into our daily lives. The public sector has been under even greater pressure since for the first time public services have been called upon to continue their work and to serve citizens by using telework to a large extent. The rapid digitisation of public administration and the adoption of several electronic certificates significantly helped to dismantle public services which until recently served citizens. But, even now that we seem to be moving away from the hardest part of the pandemic, teleworking remains highly widespread. Outside for decades he has been very popular in specific professions. Modern technology allows us to work from anywhere as efficiently, perhaps more. The important benefits of teleworking cannot be ignored, such as removing the stress of moving to large urban centres, providing greater flexibility in time management and a better balance between working and family life. Of course, there is also the positive environmental standard, which is related to the restriction on movements and to the lesser emissions of carbon dioxide. The need to integrate teleworking into modern professional reality and the public sector has correctly led the Ministry of Interior to create a coherent framework for the efficient use of teleworking, both in normal and exceptional circumstances. The new provisions relate to permanent civil servants, officials concerned with private law and posted teachers in administrative posts, provided that their work can be carried out by teleworking. Clearly, the principles applicable to teleworking in the public sector are laid down. Firstly, it is absolutely voluntary and, of course, it is not a service change. The optional nature shall be reduced only when reasons of public health require it and the staff member is obliged to accept it. Conversely, the public body is obliged to approve the request for teleworking when it is endangered or threatened with the health of the staff member and provided that the type of work allows him to be carried out by teleworking. Secondly, the principle of equal treatment ensures that all workers, whether by living or by teleworking, enjoy the same rights and have the same obligations. Of course, the teleworker is required, in the performance of his duties, to have the public interest and the service of the citizen as a priority. Thirdly, there is full respect for personal data for teleworkers. All provisions of the European Regulation on the protection of personal data and of our national legislation apply. Finally, fourthly, the principle of respect for the privacy and confidentiality of communications is laid down. The rule is that the computer camera may not be used to check the staff member's performance. The time limits for telework, which must take place in specified days per week within the hours of operation of the public service, are clearly defined and may not exceed forty-four working days per calendar year. No telework may be carried out between 15 July and 31 August. Time restrictions go in so that the employee is not completely alienated from his natural working environment. It is defined as the maximum percentage of staff who can work by teleworking per address of each body or part of it. The teleworker may carry out his work from home or from any place within the European Union. The right to disconnect also applies to civil servants such as what we legislate in the private sector. The employee is therefore disconnected from the computer and the phones after the end of his time. The staff member shall be provided by his service with the necessary equipment and, where this is not possible, may use his own equipment. The other provisions stand out the one that increases the categories of officials entitled to housing and food in mountain and island municipalities, after the health, teachers, police and firefighters. The substation problems observed in these areas, such as the Magnesia and Sporades, are very serious. The specific change brought about by the Ministry of Home Affairs gives further incentives to select mountain and island areas to serve private-law employees, as well as the members of special educational staff and special assistants. Finally, a few words on Amendment 919 concerning the disposal of surplus vaccines from Greece to third countries. The additional vaccines are available free of charge to countries which need them in the context of the European Union's cooperation with the GAVI, the World Alliance for Vaccines and Immunisation. Most importantly, however, it is a moral obligation for all developed countries to help states which do not have financial authority and which count huge losses in human lives. Secondly, it is necessary, apart from Europe and America, that the wall of immunity be built globally so that we do not have new mutations and repeated pandemic waves. Finally, today's bill is another necessary improvement for how the public sector works. Incorporating the use of teleworking that came to stay. In this way, public administration is seeking to be more attractive, more free to work organisation and a better distribution of working time in professional and personal life. At the same time, it benefits the State at the level of reduction in operating costs. Thanks to the ongoing government's initiatives, public administration is modernising and leaves behind attitudes that held it bound to anachronistic logic of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Lippi. The floor will now be taken, after the Stepma is settled, by the MP of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Yiannis Sarakiotis and immediately after the MP of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Kyanakis. Let me say this because I see some omissions. At the beginning of the procedure, the President-in-Office, Mr Kaklamanis, informed the House that, because colleagues from the opposition, participated in today's events, they were not deleted and expressed when they were present. I say it because I see some people shy. This has been done from the outset and confirms it by moving the person of the rapporteur of the New Democracy. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr President. Today we are called on to discuss a new institutional framework for teleworking, but I think it would be a mistake to look at it separately from the overall policy of the Government in the field of labour, a policy which today led thousands of our fellow citizens - all ages and all political spaces - on the streets. Initially, I have to say that we could never imagine that almost three years after our exit from the memorials in August 2018, we would return to the same and worst practices to prevent any conquest of workers, to those logics that were condemned to citizens' conscience and we hoped they had been condemned to the level of the political system. But it looks like we're wrong. The masks are now falling, a few years late, from 2013-2014 when you said that the troika had been obliging you, while it was a pure political choice and an ideological obsession to violate every working right. Today, where there is no such Memorandum of Understanding and no need to collect the next dose, not only do you take the same and worse decisions, but you support it unregulatedly and that you do it for the good of the workers. This is the definition of political disparity towards people who will find themselves in the next period of time faced with the possibility of losing even their first residence because of the bankruptcy code, which you yourself voted against, against young people who, who have remained or returned to the country, are again exported abroad to find a better chance, against a society that is under the suffocating of labour precariousness and low incomes after a year and a half of a pandemic crisis and the dismantling of a substantial part of our country's productive fabric. In the face of these real and imperative problems, you are opposed to bills which deregulation the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government under suffocating pressure has tried and managed to support the workers and especially their incomes, which have suffered an unprecedented attack on the government of New Democracy. We have handed over the responsibility of governance having abolished the shameful underpaid, having increased the minimum wage, having strengthened the Labour Inspectorate, putting it at the service of the worker, limiting undeclared work, having restored collective labour contracts. In this way we have achieved a 10 percentage reduction in unemployment - from 27% in 2015 to 17% - and undeclared work from 20% to 15% and 7% in 2019. Then, instead of coming as a government and taking a step further, you choose a leap in the void, effectively abolishing eight hours and five days' work, leaving workers out of power against employers' arbitrariness, which is now being converted into your own and only responsibility for normality through individual contracts. At the same time, you vertically increase the annual overtime limit to fifty, which now become cheaper for businesses. This way, instead of ideal working conditions, you ensure ideal conditions of employment, with lower wages and fewer recruitments. This brings about the ideal scenario for employers, more work with less money, and even less weakened and effectively inactive the Labour Inspectorate. You bring the bill that will be passed next week. You are effectively abolishing workers' rights. You are also turning the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority. When the world of work sees the consequences, you will wash your hands and say "we, the independent authority, the Labour Inspectorate". Is that your proposal to the young people in our country to remove their deadlocks and resolve their problems? Being a resident of Piraeus, working with part-time status in Maroussi daily nine to twelve in the morning and six to nine in the afternoon. One wonders how this man will make a family, what daily life will he have, in what conditions do you actually oblige him to live? He'll be paid for six hours, he'll work eight, and he'll be able to travel at 12 hours. By such arrangements, you only support employers, who, by introducing the time spent even for part time workers, will not even have to go to new recruitments. With your policy you open the door to a new round of redundancies, as business will meet their needs by extinguishing workers in exterior hours. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, let me inform you that the vast majority of jobs in the real economy are not like those of PPC's blue Golden Boys, where you pay over EUR 350,000 a year. There are no such positions in the real economy, because the lucky man happens to be a member of the New Democracy. And it will be wondered: Why do you not pay the Golden Boys like the ones of PPC with the day off, as you see for the workers? Why don't you introduce a regulation so that private sector workers can pay off the PPC accounts, through which they themselves will also pay the priceless wages of your chosen ones? Hundreds, that is, thousands of euros in Golden Boys, which are actually blue Boys, your children, increases in pay for poster workers, reduce their qualifications and record numbers on the one hand and the other on the other, individual contracts, increase overtime without pay and undermining the APRC. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in this way we are not going to follow you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u50	We too thank Mr Sarakiotis and the consistency of time. The Minister will take the floor for a very short time, Mr Contozamanis, in order to place himself on the amendment with a general number of 919 and a special 98. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, the agreements concluded by the European Union and the Member States with vaccine-producing companies provide for the possibility of free supply of vaccines to third countries outside the European Union. The Greek Government has expressed its willingness to assist with the vaccination programmes of neighbouring countries, particularly Albania and Northern Macedonia. The free disposal of twenty thousand vaccines to Albania and twenty thousand vaccines to Northern Macedonia has been decided. The proposed provision clarifies the procedure for the disposal of surplus stocks of vaccines in third countries. This concept is specified by reference to criteria such as the correlation with the existing demand per type of vaccine, the function of delivering already scheduled supplies, the consumption time and the expiry date of vaccines and the possibility of adequate and accurate domestic demand coverage. As we have said, we must first meet the demand in our country and then take action like the one I mentioned. All this is, of course, the result of the existing entries in the programme system for vaccination sessions against the coronary. Furthermore, this regulation regulates the issue of covering any associated expenditure which may be required for the disposal of vaccines to third countries in surplus - I would point out - of the stock of vaccines against the coronary from the Ministry of Health budget appropriations to enable the relevant decision of the relevant three-member commission management committee of the National Coronary Vaccine Programme to be implemented. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u52	And we thank the Minister. Mr Konstantinos Kyranakis has the floor now and immediately after the speech the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos will be given the list. Mr. Kyranakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, on the occasion of today's bill, which regulates something self-evident, for teleworking in the public sector, I think it is time to look at some other aspects of the changes that the pandemic has brought and the ideas that we may have as Parliament to make our country better. It has provided the opportunity for all the debate that has been opened, Minister, by teleworking, to consider how the public can be better able to work in favour of citizens and taxpayers. The truth is that something that has been left behind in the public debate and because of the pandemic is evaluation. When we come and create services, whether digital or not, which are now much more open to the world, they can be better assessed and based on public opinion at least until today, they are evaluated as very positive changes, why not start promoting an evaluation system at least for the services in which the civil servant comes in direct contact with the citizen? For all those services that either concern real estate registers, mortgages, taxes or JEPs, services in which the civil servant is in contact with the citizen every day, with the company, which often seeks to find his point of view, seeks to find a solution to the problem he faces. These services and these employees, in my opinion, should begin to be evaluated by the world itself, by society itself, not penalised. Because there are too many people in the public sector who want to offer more, want to be polite, to show a attitude of real service to the citizen and are not at present able to stand out from others who do not. So, then, the time has come even with tools such as the video call introduced by the relevant Ministry as a means of serving the citizen, to start evaluating these services, to do better, to tell us the citizens who are serving properly and where they are serving wrongly and to learn from these mistakes so that we can make a better public. Teleworking, which we are dealing with today with the bill, could also act as an incentive for people to go to the islands, Minister, especially to the remote islands, to the islands from which people are leaving to find a job in the large urban centres, the islands where young people no longer see their future there, because they do not have the tools or until now have the tools to make a family, to create a family where they come from. So I suggest that the Ministry see teleworking as a means of restoring life to our islands. Civil servants who come from extreme islands to return to their homelands and be able to work from there. Now, because the debate on the work was opened and I heard several colleagues from SYRIZA evaporating for Mr. Hatzidakis' 'anti-laboratory' bill, the truth is that you haven't even read the bill. The truth is, there hasn't been a more enterprising bill in recent years than that brought by New Democracy. And when you tell us, Mr Zachariadis, about the young children who are working overtime and who are not paid, you must answer what you have done for them. And you do well to care, but you have to care about evidence and evidence. What have you been doing for five years for the new children who, as you said, either in the workshops or in any office that worked overtime and your government has not taken a single step to get one of these overtime? So here comes the digital card. It's a tool. It may work properly, it may need improvements, but it is a step so that every worker can, by exercising his own right to higher income, declare in consultation with his employer his overtime and receive them normally. We are increasing the overtime ceiling so that the worker can increase his income more if he wishes. If he wishes to do so, based on the freedom of choice we bring with the labour bill, he will be able to take the next month or another time he will choose a license above. You may be mocking, ironically, scoffingly saying that the work on collecting olives, for example, is a funny thing. It could be funny for you. You may not consider it serious. But what if someone has a health issue of their own or family or a family matter? It finally gives him the working bill - the New Democracy, not the Left - the opportunity to work on a choice, in a desire more time and less. What about them? Do we care about them at all, or do we stick to the paperwork and what you legislated and never applied? You should take a position, Mr Zachariadis, and all the new colleagues from SYRIZA on matters that concern our generation at work. You have not said a word about the arrangements we bring about for sexual harassment, about the arrangements that we bring for all these young girls, young girls, who will not for the first time feel weak. They were being harassed again and again at the workplace and your government did absolutely nothing to protect them. Absolutely nothing to enable them to cope with and stand on their feet and to be able to put a brake on harassment. So the New Democracy comes and regulates this. New Democracy comes and defends all these girls and not just the girls. All the young people. You're not saying a single word about the right to disconnect. Tell me what you, as SYRIZA, have been doing all these years in the new kids who got e-mails, phones and messages in the evening from their employer? And if they didn't answer, they were fired. What did you do? Did you set it up? Oh, no. You ignored it there at SYRIZA. The left ignored the new workers, who needed a state, a government that is really going to behave in a way that gives the worker power. I shall conclude, Mr President, by commenting on the course and strike that is taking place at the moment outside the House, with a great deal of trouble once more, once again to all the others who just want to go to work, who want to do their job. There's not many people outside the House. And historically, if we look at it, if that's the mother of the fights for you, as you say, surely this image that's outside the House doesn't respond to anything grand, to something big. Perhaps they have taken an example from you who asked you all to come together in plenary. Strictly. You said you'd violate Parliament's Rules of Procedure. You all wanted to be in the chairs together. And SYRIZA's seat is empty. Left benches are empty. By taking an example from teleworking, you may have had more people with a teleperiment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Cyranakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would like the floor for thirty seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Zachariadis, I saw you. No, no. I have a beginning to follow the Rules of Procedure completely. The reference to your name is not personal. I happened to be a professor, to teach. Personnel shall constitute falsification of so-called or insults. So I heard you say, 'You said nothing, Mr Zachariadis, about one, two, three, four, which are the political positions here.' I won't give you the floor. That's my beginning. I can't. You can't do that. I call on the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr. Vasiliardos. Until she arrives, let me say that Mrs Nadia Giannakopoulou, Mr Yiannis Loverdos, Mr Marios Katsis, Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou and Mr Kotsos will then take the floor, as the list you have before you. Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. We will start from the fact that today is the anniversary of the Bistom, the atrocity, that is, of the Germans in this particular region of our country, on which we must recall that we are claiming war redress from Germany. It is a sum exceeding EUR 300 billion, however small ones may call it, from its lowest size, which one can say. The rapporteur of the Greek Solution, Mr. Hetas, was detailed in the bill. I will complete very little on the issue of teleworking, which has long been known to anyone who has worked abroad, especially in the United States, where it has been implemented several years ago, with employees being able to work some days from home. It is planned to speed up the process that has escalated at the pandemic, since both companies and their employees are now saving enough money from reducing the office costs, from moving costs and so on. All this, of course, sounds positive, until the time when they are combined with the new labour law and with overworking, whether forced or voluntary, which leads to the physical exhaustion of workers in the foreign countries that have been implemented, apart from the burden of family life, of course in the private sector. On the other hand, homework threatens the existing model of the economy, especially in terms of real estate, where commercial office buildings lose much of their value, as do apartments in towns, since people prefer their relocation to more comfortable suburbs. It is something that must concern us, especially in Greece of the crisis and the recession, because property prices have collapsed, causing great problems for both their owners and banks. If the registered office of workers can be in a small town or in another European Union, as referred to in Article 11, then the problem will become greater, let alone because, with the same logic, they could be in a country of lower labour costs than the European Union, for example, in India, although not allowed at present. If the presence is reduced by two months, then the decrease in office space will be about 15% for 25% of employees, in accordance with Articles 8 and 9, and in these cases employees will not have a fixed office, but will share whatever there is. However, the General Accounting Office of the State does not mention any cost from the bill, but only EUR 760 000 in Article 25 for rents of a special agency of the Ministry of the Interior, which we do not know exactly what this is about and should be explained to us. In addition, Article 22 refers to a preferential payroll for journalists in OTA, which should be explained better to us, hoping that this is not a subsidy for journalists in proportion to the 80 million euros provided to the media in order to ensure their support for the government. We shall now continue with the allegations made by the Parliamentary Representative of the Government, since we have not been given the opportunity to reply from the Bureau, of course, because there was no time. It's not, of course, here, but it's about the government and not himself. His claims were as follows: Firstly, he said that we misguided ELSTAT's data on the 2020 recession, but that is wrong, since we did not question them, but ELSTAT itself. Obviously, my colleague did not notice that I said clearly that ELSTAT has revised its GDP figures for a whole decade, and not least by name, which is a global originality. It's never been in the world before. In particular, in June 2020 announced the results of the first quarter of 2020, as recently for 2021, according to which the recession in Greece was 0.09% compared to the corresponding period of 2019 and -1.6% compared to the previous one. On September 3, 2020, about three months later, ELSTAT made another announcement, limiting the recession to 0.6% again for the first quarter, and again three months later, in December, the recession of the same quarter - in the first quarter of 2020 - became 0.4% growth. To now justify the repetition of the Greek statistics, which we know from the dirty past of the present party in Greece, made a statement on 16 October 2020 that changed the base year and revised the statistics for 2010-2017. What does that mean? Simplifiedly, it carried all the negative elements back, burdening on the past, which no longer pays attention, and delighting the present, but at a cost of around EUR 4 billion of GDP, since 2019 was reduced from EUR 187,5 billion to EUR 183,4 billion eventually. On 5 March 2021 the 2020 1st quarter of recession - from 0.09% at first was reduced to 0.6% and then growth was 0.4% - changed again for the fourth time. This time it shrinked from 0.4% to 0.1%. Of course, something similar has happened with all the other quarters where the same development of the accordion as one says has been found, with a final and rather intended result of losing the statistical account. On the basis of the provisional communications, the government always makes a policy and triumphs, which is also suspicious and unacceptable, and for all of this we can put it in the Minutes whenever our colleague or the government wants. Secondly, he said that we should compare the fall in the first quarter of 2021 with the corresponding quarter of 2020. We were wrong. Because in the 2020 quarter the economy was only locked for two weeks, while in 2021 for all months, for all three months. Apart from not taking into account the fact that the market had become familiar with the locks and operated in various ways, such as delivery, click away etc., as well as with various tricks that we all know, the first quarter of 2021 was supported by the government with EUR 3.7 billion, as we will testify in the Minutes, which was not the case in 2020. Of course these 3.7 billion were in excess of 24 billion in 2020. So plunging back into a recession - 2.3% in the first quarter of 2021 with temporary elements, which is the sixth worst performance in Europe, as shown in the table that we will be tabling in the Minutes, was a clear government failure. Thirdly, he said that we have no proposals, obviously ignoring our five hundred-page programme, which the government fortunately began to copy, the ones that we submitted already in April 2020, and also the fact that we said from the outset that our economy should not be locked, while we predicted a 10% recession and not 15%, he said. In 15% Mr Varoufakis had said so from Mera25 and not us. The events have verified us, such as the fact that in the United States the incidents and deaths were the same in states that locked and those that did not lock up, as we will also testify in the Minutes to substantiate what we are saying. The same happened in Switzerland, which was not strictly locked like Greece, so that the development of the pandemic is on the European Union's average in terms of deaths and cases, and that is because of the decrease in exports, because many other countries had locked up. But does the government not think Switzerland had and has greater economic potential than Greece? May I demand the same cost of living, care, etc., assume with Bill Gates? Was it right for Greece to spend more than any other European Union country, proportionately, on the crisis in the economic situation it is in? With these logics, did New Democracy not overload Greece in 2004-2009 and did not go bankrupt in 2012? Finally, in terms of unemployment, which my colleague, Mr New Democracy, proud of, I do not think we need to talk about at all, since during the pandemic, wages were actually paid by the state, so the picture is entirely fictitious. Furthermore, the official rate of unemployment does not count for the long-term unemployed, nor of course our six hundred thousand young people who have left abroad, depriving us of some 32.5 billion GDP, which we will never achieve if they do not return, noting that the registered unemployed according to the OAS exceed a million thousand, as we will testify in the Minutes. Is it true that this one million thousand to which a government can triumph, saying unemployment was kept low? We shall now refer to the very important issue of the trade balance deficit, which in April exceeded 70% - a huge percentage - while in the quarter of 2021 it was launched at 15%, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. This, on the one hand, proves that our economy produces less and less, on the other hand, that our competitiveness continues to deteriorate, which should give us a great deal of concern, let alone when all of this triggers our external debt, which has already exceeded $500 billion. Huge sums. In the tenth assessment the forecasts for the sustainability of our public debt go beyond ridiculousness, since it is estimated that it will decrease to 120% of GDP - that is, as long as it was 2010 that we led to the IMF - in 2040, that is, after twenty years. We would remind you here that exactly the same provision had been made by the protagonist of the PSI, Mr Venizelos, but for 2020, that is, last year, which exceeded 20% of our GDP, with our loans at 227% at the end of 2020, and even more today. All the government knows, all it has shown so far is to borrow. However, the worst of all in the same evaluation is the cost of refinancing, which is expected to exceed 20% of GDP in 2021, as we will testify in the Minutes, with an average growth rate of 2021-2029 at 2.9% in its main scenario and also with the package 'Greece 2.0', which we consider to be much greater growth, but is not the case. For red private, of course, that 2010 was almost negligible, and today it has exceeded EUR 240 billion, plus EUR 80 billion, tax incremental increases, the solution has been found to be sustainable. The new bankruptcy law - an abortion with which the first residence is not even protected, and also support for our lending by the European Central Bank. But when will the European Central Bank support us and in what way? How long will the manipulation that we have heard and previously with so-called low interest rates continue when we all know that it is due to the support of the European Central Bank? With 8.75% of Piraeus was borrowed today, which is a much more reliable criterion of our country's borrowing costs, banks. In conclusion, I would like to say that this will change the ownership status of our private sector such as the public sector, with the concession to the foreign sub-scheme and with the sale of everything. So, indeed, the government is starting a new Greece, as it states, a Greece in which Greeks will be impoverished, suffering debt slaves of the new owners of their home country, and at the same time the new Greeks will not be replaced, who have left and will continue to leave their country to survive, from illegal immigrants, as the President of the Republic said. However, it is estimated that the reduction in Greece's population in fifty years will be 20%, when the average reduction in the European Union will be 5%. This, together with the continued abandonment of our country by its citizens, especially by young people, is our number one problem, for which unfortunately there is no debate in this House, despite the fact that we all know our demographic collapse as one of the consequences of the failure of the government's economic policy and the ongoing memoranda imposed on us. Unfortunately, that's true. It doesn't satisfy us at all, we don't do anything, but we have to call it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u58	Thank you. The honourable Member now has the floor from the Change Movement, Mrs Giannakopoulou. As I said before, my colleague will now take the floor from the Change Movement. Because some colleagues from Opposition were in the field of events, immediately after the speech Mr Giannoulis, who has come and would have spoken. This has been agreed from the outset. The list will then be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the COVID pandemic - 19 has brought to the surface the need for our immediate acceleration in the new digital age. In the face of the fourth industrial revolution and the 5G era, the changes that are taking place in digital transformation must be compatible with the data and with the reality that we are facing. Important areas of everyday life, such as training, such as teleworking, have been forced to adapt to all these new conditions of this time, taking a step in the remote operation. And, of course, they could in no way be touched by very serious sectors of the state, such as governance itself. However, it is very easily understood by all of us that this is causing new challenges, for which we have to be prepared, in order to make the transition to the future and to respond with a sufficient degree. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] As I said before, the pandemic has therefore given the opportunity to move on more quickly in the public sector and to expand teleworking. But the way to this transition, Minister, will be long, because, as I think you can easily understand, it requires investment in technology, it requires a upgrading of skills, it requires the creation of new national infrastructure, and it certainly requires an appropriate regulatory environment. At this point I could not go into the very important and very bold steps taken in this direction already in 2009 and the PASOK government, when the digital structures, such as the "ERMS" Internet portal, "DIAGY", e-prescription and many other very important areas and reforms, were integrated. By entering now the essence of the bill, first of all, we must recognise that it is particularly important that this whole debate is taking place before the end of our pandemic and our return to full regularity. And this draft law, yes, is a first step, but it is a first step to guarantee teleworking in the public. The telework we are discussing today, in the case of the government, has come to stay. The concept of flexible working hours and the way and place where teleworking is provided is not a negative dimension when it is in a specific context, Minister. However, it certainly requires a complex and holistic approach and a complete framework, as I have said. We, the Change Movement, do not doubt that this transition must be made in a final and total way for all the workers. Everyone must be able to have access to telework, even to the least privileged, so that this form of employment does not become just for those who have the necessary technological resources. In addition, access to teleworking must in no way lead to risky or personal data - and this is an issue where we are very sensitive as space - or in general family and private life. Through teleworking, the working conditions will also be improved, but above all the quality of the services provided to Greek citizens. It is therefore necessary, Minister, for you, to establish further digital training for civil servants so that they can be well trained in order to be able to support this work through these new procedures. But while the bill before us is in agreement at first, there are some provisions that we consider to be problematic and which we consider to be the way in which you put them in more trouble. They have been analysed by our special speaker, Mr Kamines. I cannot comment briefly too. It is worth mentioning, first of all, that the civic counsellor's memorandum states that this draft law essentially regulates occasional rather than full teleworking. So this is something that you need to see and for which you need to be clearly placed. In Article 5d, the teleworker time monitoring system is introduced. From the wording of the law, it seems optional when you say "in case", and proportionally on the basis of the wording you have made and imposed by the operational needs of the body. However, it is a prediction that has caused reasonable reactions and in no subsequent article there is no specialisation as to how exactly this will be done. There is also a need for greater specialisation in what the general provisions are. We are waiting, Minister, for your clarifications on these issues. In addition, negative points are the non-exact indication of how teleworking is counted in overtime, the exceptional use of cameras, both for teleconferences and for the monitoring of working time. At the hearing of the bodies, the Privacy Authority also expressed a relative reservation as to the balance of power between the prohibition and the exception. Many of the issues relating to the protection of personal data are referred to in a later version of a Presidential Decree, and that, yes, is problematic. These are some of the provisions we disagree with, they have been analysed by Mr Kamine and we expect concrete answers from your side. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute more, Mr. President. Finally, Mr Minister, I would like to address two points. The first concerns what is happening in relation to the matter of the National School of Public Administration and the amendment to the amendments to the second stage of the introductory competition. We think it is absolutely unacceptable to prepare and bring changes in such a short time before the opening of the notice. The contestants - and I am sure you know that, you know, firsthand what this whole process is - have started to prepare them seriously, professionally for months now, on the basis of a specific material and concrete lessons, a hard preparation, so that they can succeed. Of course, there needs to be an upgrade and a change in the curriculum. But in such a short time? Why all this precursor, Minister? Why couldn't you, yes, this upgrade, but for the next competition, when for a year all these people have been preparing for this particular contest? I don't think anyone can understand that in here. From there on, another issue, which also raises reasonable questions, has to do with the amendment which provides for exceptional regulation of debts to TA I grades. In accordance with the a2 of the amendment, debts which have been established or are to be established from 15 to 2020 until 30-6-2021 have been settled. The beginning should be removed from 15-2-2020. Why are you doing this? Why are you making such a narrow photographic arrangement and cannot, in this way, be subject to this possibility and to earlier debts? Why are you doing this? Why not give all citizens a second chance, as you are doing for this particular category? Please see it, explain again the photographic context and help them subject as much as possible. As our rapporteur pointed out, we are positive in principle on this bill, but we cannot stress our differences, our questions, our disagreement on the specific issues that we have expressed, even at the last minute, to ask you to listen to us and to make the necessary changes. We will vote against it otherwise. We are always in favour of positive reforms, how much more in favour of the digitalisation of the state, but not in micro-party games or if you want to do so in a small way of dealing with such serious issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much. Good evening to you and me. Herbert of me, is not Thessalonikios, is elected in Thessaloniki, Kateriniotis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u61	Neighbors, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u62	That's right. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would also like to thank the Bureau for its tolerance in the order of speakers, as we participated today in the great strikes. I am very pleased that Mr Vorides, the Minister for the Interior, came to the Chamber, because I know he is an artist. Are you an artist or am I wrong, Minister? You like the theatre.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u64	Oh, yeah!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u65	There is, however, a historic performance, Mr. Minister, "Our great circus" by James Campanell, played within the dictatorship, where there is features a scene that the late Jenny Karazei walks around the board and presents to the world, is legendary and proverbial, "Listen something is done, something is heard below". What is heard from below and what is being transferred to today's reality is what happened out today on the streets of Athens and on the streets of all Greece, which is about work and not teleworking. Ladies and gentlemen, the political schizophrenia sometimes arises here, but also the suicidal political idea of the New Democracy. And I regret that I will violate the tradition of referring only to the provisions of the bill. It forces me to tell you that it is at least contradictory today to support an original, model, innovative form of work, which must be governed by transparency, merit and effective evaluation, but at the same time in this Chamber to fight the world of work. That's all you can do. Only you can achieve such political contradictions. I'm opening parentheses. It is at the same time that you move the finger on the Greek borrowers that they must be consistent with their obligations and bend their heads to an unacceptablely unfair Banking Code, but at the same time you owe them 300 million banks privileged conditions. It is like saying that at the moment you are presently presenting us with the model of teleworking, while you are being sent to the public sector. The evaluation and crisis has only to do with party origins. Well, you're hitting the AAP. Even technical capabilities are weakened. I would like to say to you, Mr Voridis and Mr Petsas, as long as your conversation lasts on the margins of my placement, in the region of Central Macedonia where you have the political responsibility, there are no assessments of directors, because those who enjoy the head's confidence do not have the formal qualifications to claim the posts. Is that what you imagine and where teleworking will also be applied with the arrangements that you propose? But I want to go a little further. What Greece are you referring to today? In Greece of Syntagma square, Thessaloniki, where the workers of the Kavala Fertilizers and Mr. Hatzidakis are on the road, do you believe that this policy no longer produces an impact political? Do you feel like you're still on the chariot of the arrogance of your demographic performances? From now on, based on the image, if it has come to your attention, from all over Greece, take the message. The message is that they've taken you, they've understood that what you really represent in the world isn't the dream you've drawn with the help of the original data before teleworking, it's the "telist" Pessa, which took care to make an ideal world. Even today, when an attempt was made to strike in the media, the ideal world of Mr. Hatzidakis again appeared, the man for the work who performs the third in order of performing a contract against the public interest: Olympic, PPC, work, achievements of Hatzidakis, the good Vice President of the New Democracy. If you remember, you put us in a...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Giannoulis, you won't have time for Mr. Voridis' bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u67	There is time for reality, Mr President, which is perhaps stronger than Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u68	Yeah, but you consumed all the time there. Next week, we'll have the job, you'll have all the time to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u69	Thank you for suggesting. I'll try.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u70	I'm not saying don't refer to topicality, to God.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u71	Yeah, yeah, okay. It is the third, in turn, criminal contract against the public interest, and today we say that all of this has no effect on the world. Teleworking, as the rapporteur for the Greater Representation and other colleagues have said, is a very serious issue, to be entrusted with the hands of the Ministry of Interior's political leadership. It is a very serious case, while you do not want to treat pathogens that have been treated to a great extent in the past few years. But come on, having to feed a state that had to see its self-powered New Democracy government since 2009. What can we do? I understand that there are too many political obligations to be solved through the teleworking bill. In other words, you are left with the macro-economic analysis, the easy reasoning left to you, but you do not have the popular instinct, the popular sensor, what I described at the outset. "Our great circus" and the appeal of late Jenny Karazei that something is happening, something boils in this country was a very great symbolic message. You do not now take it with what is happening, with what is boiling out in society and legislating - literally I tell you, without exaggerating - the interpretation of the interests of the citizens. Come on, actually! Come to Greece, 2021! Come to Greece that has been businessly degraded since July 2019. Not all cubs of the North Macedonian type, the Prespecies Agreement. There's a reality. You've been exposed enough. Protect this country, which needs to see the future with optimism and not with the party standards yours. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u72	I would also like to thank you for keeping time, even though the remark was made. To God, the MP is not in glass - to refer to the news, I have read what is going on outside - but there is a bill that we need to discuss. For all other things, the parliamentary representative can speak. No problem. The next speaker is Mr Ioannis - Michael Loverdos, Member of the Second Western Athens Department of New Democracy. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today is a day when we must not forget. Today is the anniversary of the massacre of the Bistom, one of the most appalling atrocities of World War II and the Nazi occupation of our country. I say this because these crimes must never be forgotten, and they are left unpunished. Today, friends and friends, Greece has been able to borrow and have the confidence of international markets as ever in the last ten to eleven years, after the bankruptcy of 2010. This is an important day and this shows the confidence of the markets in the economy, in the Greek state and in the Greek Government. That's why we need to say good-bye. It is a positive day when it comes to this fact. It is not particularly positive with regard to the reactions I see about the work bill that comes to debate and vote next week in Parliament. The opposition has decided that this bill - her right - is the top, it is the battle battle. It will be lost, but in any case what is being done today, in my opinion, is a special treaty. The SYRIZA Members have come here - whom I have listened with great interest and some of them are very dear, such as Mr Mamulakis, Mr Zachariadis - and said things that do not apply. They spoke, to say, of the government's arrogant behaviors. Is the government arrogant when he brings the bill to Parliament, as he has a right? Are you saying that the demonstration that took place in the center of Athens represents the people of work and all the workers, is not arrogant behaviour? Some thousands who are protesting today can express the whole of the biopalesemen, those who were forced to go to work today without having the opportunity to pay a taxi, on foot many times from Cameroon, Heidari, Aigaleo, Petroupoli, where the soul of the work is? For those people who went to the supermarkets, where are you going to go after shopping, any attention? Is that what you represent, supposedly? Of course not. You represent a small minority of workers, who are indeed affected by their interests. Why, yes, with the bill - not Hatzidakis - the Government of New Democracy is affected by organised guilds and trade union privileges. That's true. They want to protest. Your right to protest as much as you like. Your right to go out on the streets and protest, always according to the law, but it is not your right to speak of arrogance. These arrogant behaviours have brought the country into this mess, the arrogant attitudes of the Left for decades now. That's why we stayed behind, and that's why we drove to bankruptcy in 2010 and still doesn't seem to be a brain to put on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u74	Is it the Left's fault of bankruptcy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u75	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u76	In fact, yes, it's the Left, Mr. Polakis. And I say it and I'll say it again. Left and left attitudes are to blame, but it is your right, when you take the floor, to say that it is the right one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u77	I'll tell Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u78	Mr. Polakis, please. Mr. Loverdo, don't answer, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u79	Tell Voridis, I'd be delighted to hear it. Also, with regard to those who were troubled today, Vorides was not troubled to come to the House today. The worker was afflicted to go to work, because the supermarkets are open, you know, because the stores are open, most businesses are working today. The shops of the center of Athens, which have suffered pandemics at this time of pandemic, today have no work to do. We don't think about them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u80	Let's go a little bit to today's bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u81	Yeah, I'll go. I have the right to say what I want, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u82	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u83	I have the right to answer what I hear, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u84	Don't answer, don't answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u85	I have a right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u86	Of course, it's not your fault. They challenged you. I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u87	You know, today it's been completed twenty-three months since the government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis took over. In these twenty-three months, it has never happened since 1974, that a government in the middle of parliamentary term has been stronger than it was on election day. It's never happened before. Never! And what's due? It is because of the inadequacy of the political reason for counter-population. And why is there a shortage? Because you couldn't adjust to reality. Your reality is foreign. Vorides brings here a bill on teleworking, which is self-evident. It is self-evident, that is, it should have been for many years now. I had read a 1973 Alvin Tofller book -- I was still a high school student, who talked about the digital state and about the electronic home. Since 1973! Then it was a future. Today is a reality. Instead of coming here to tell him "Look, Vorides, there you were wrong, there you made a mistake", there you made a mistake" and bring him suggestions, which I say, "Look!" How did Zachariadis, Ragus, Paulakis, or anyone else who didn't think about it?" you say no! Refusal, don't pass this bill! But that's not progress - and you're talking about a progressive left - that's a reaction. The reaction is not to accept any change. The reaction is not to accept teleworking or any of the bills that the government brings. I'll see you next week about the work. Adjusting to international reality is logical. The absurd thing is that you want nothing to change, not to change the trade unions' privileges, not to change the way in which you work in the public sector, not to change anything at all. You know, we live in times very difficult, in a society that is in transition, very long transition, because technology has brought a huge revolution, the greatest in the history of humanity. Together with the pandemic, this revolution must find us ready, so that we can deal with it as positively as possible for our country, for our country, for its people, for the future of this nation. This is what the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, the Government of the New Democracy, all of us together, will insist on, because that is what our people want. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too, for keeping time, Mr. Loverdos. Mr Marios Katsis, the Thesprotio, is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. It is clear that the efforts of the government's parliamentarians to shorten the current mobilisation politically. They have been stressed apparently by thousands of people who protest and strike and get off the street today and invest in social automation, such as the previous speaker. He's not here, of course, I wanted to answer. And they invest in social automation, referring to people who go to their jobs, that they find it difficult to move today. But it is not the government's duty to talk to workers who are cutting their wages, who will work unpaid overtime, who will increase working hours from eight to ten. Move as long as you want the finger. You're not the only one reading bills. You also say, as I heard another colleague earlier, that we are incapable of being dissatisfied. Fully paid overtime! What do you think? That you can hide reality? The worker won't see it, so, he'll be working ten hours and paid off? He won't see it? And you speak and invest in social automation. You do not see, however, that you are actually politically isolated, all parties are against the Hatzidakis bill, the bill - looting, which abolishes labour rights. Social and collective bodies and small and medium-sized enterprises are all opposite. You were only left with BSE. You are isolated and politically and socially, but you are obviously carrying out election notes. That was your target. As for Mr. Loverdos, who left earlier, since I succeeded in the Step, I would like to say that I remember him in a video in the time when SYRIZA ruled from a channel: "Do you feel safe, viewers?", referring to crime at that time. And I would like to ask Mr Loverdo and the Members of the New Democracy today: do you, Mr Loverdo, and the Members of the government-in-Office of the Council feel safe, that every day contracts are executed and that they are paid and that they fall to rain, hail, bullets every day in neighborhoods of Greece everywhere, everywhere, and at noon? Do you feel safe with Mr. Chrysochoid? Do you feel safe with the bill brought by Mr. Hatzidakis? Do your voters feel safe, the ones you represent, the new generation? But what am I asking? Rectals were these questions when he did not even have the courage to apologize for some of the inconveniences he had made in the Consistency Legislation Legislation. Today we are discussing a bill, that of teleworking in the public sector, when Parliament is discussing this bill - looting, when thousands of our fellow citizens are protesting. The Mitsotakis government, with outdated recipes from the neoliberal manuals of the Chicago School and reforms from the monsters of Thatcher and Reagan, comes to prejudge that the next day after the pandemic will be much worse for the livelihood of the social majority and much better for the rich and powerful employers in the country. In short, your policy is the classic right-wing neoliberal policy, which makes the middle-poor and richer and richer, Mr Vorides. Now, let me refer to the bill. It is clear that the teleworking that has been implemented in the public and private sectors because of the pandemic is a new reality and, apparently, this reality has come to be left for the later era. The experience experienced by workers in the country with teleworking is true that we do not have detailed empirical data on how it worked in the Greek public and private sectors in the previous period. All of us, speaking with fellow citizens and ourselves, have also gained positive and negative experiences on the issue. On the positive side, the limitation of movements from and to work and the environmental footprint, due to a reduction in traffic on the roads, more family time, especially parents, is the possibility of working from the province, which enhances decentralisation, increase the employment of disabled people. However, there are several negative aspects, too, very important. Experimentally many employees reported that they were actually working much longer than homework and without any working hours, elasticizing the work and furthering it. We also had a new transfer of the fixed labour costs from the employer to the worker. Moreover, the current, water, internet, heating, proper furniture for the right position of the body, as well as the computer and consumables of the office are paid by the employee's pocket, which bears a large cost, reducing the employer's contractual obligations. Many have reported alienation from human contact, leading to a deterioration in the mental and physical health of workers, and this should not go unnoticed. It is therefore necessary to establish an appropriate regulatory framework. There is a need and we are not in the first place opposed to the existence of a framework. It is important that we take into account the right of staff to disconnect, i.e. close their computer at the end of the working hours, not to be available at any time and at any time. With regard to the need to keep personal data, you are dealing with the issue skinally, recalling more ideas, which contains intentional ambiguities, in my opinion. Critical details, such as, for example, the issue of regulation of personal data, are referred to future presidential decrees or other administrative acts, making them insecure. The bill should expressly refer to the way in which the privacy of workers in teleworking will not be violated. In addition, the absence of uniform conditions, rules and criteria linked to the organisational programmes of operators in the context of teleworking is expected to cause difficulties in its implementation, different approaches between operators and create employees of different speeds through customer filtering. How did you say so, Mr. Voridis, when you were asked in an interview, I think, about the management of hospitals with "blue" executives? "Who would we put? Foreigners?’. These, the excellent ones, you say 'come de', Mr. Voridis, are burdened with the crimes that led to many hospitals having 100% mortality in the ICUs and then, afterward, to prosecute them and have orders. This 'come de' is paid today by the Greek society. What do we see here? Same logic. There are no specific conditions and criteria for the appointment of a teleworker and it is essentially up to the supervisor, whom you may place on party criteria. So here we say that whoever has a "bar in the Koroni" and wants to work, as we speak of the public sector in this bill. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u90	You're welcome, Mr. Katsey.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u91	The regulation of the teleworking system must be in a direction which does not broaden inequalities, particularly digital, but will reduce them. And when we talk about inequalities, as defined by the European Commission's digital index DESI, we are talking about Internet access. Really, do all the workers in mountain villages have internet over there, have broadband infrastructural gone? For basic and specialized digital skills for workers. To integrate new technologies. Employers must be given this to workers, in this case the public service to employees. With Article 12, you say they can use their own computer and work. Do they all have the right means? Have you anticipated training seminars possibly for employees? Furthermore, there is no clear framework for encouraging teleworking for special groups such as disabled people, chronic diseases or single parent families. It is also particularly critical of the contracts to be concluded in the field of teleworking. We demand full transparency and accountability to stop the party of direct awards. Finally, teleworking can be a useful complementary tool for the public sector, but in no case can it replace living work. We will not allow Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Vorides, who are aware of their intentions, to see them as a lever for reducing the labour force in services, reducing wages, increasing the workload, optimising working hours. You should be aware that, as our President, Alexis Tsipras, from today's gathering, the world of work, Minister, very soon to Mr Mitsotakis and to you ministers will give you a permanent day off. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u92	Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou is called to Stepma by New Democracy, who is elected in the B3' South Athens Sector.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. You've confused us, dear colleague. I had to ask the Minister of the Interior whether I was wrong on what side you are. But it's free movement, as it is free to dream. Dream up, and here we are to support them. But I can't understand that. Because now on the question of homework, that is, a flexible form, before that period ends well, unfortunately, with COVID, instead of saying that at last we have a government that is rushing to adapt, it is rushing to do what is needed and people are going to live better - and that is what you say, well, well, well, you have some comments, we can go further, we all agree to discuss them - because what is there is a direct reaction you agree on, while in the arrangements that are coming you do not agree. I also wanted to ask the Bureau - with all due respect, of course, but because I saw Mr Zachariadis, I expected my turn to speak - next time I may have a party duty, to address the Bureau. Mr. Zachariadis, don't yell. You spoke at the event there, you told each other, you heard it. You're not scaring us. We will take a step forward in bringing this country forward. We literally have so many opportunities before us that we will be condemned by our children if we let them pass again. And that's not what we're gonna do. It is an opportunity and is given mainly to younger people, the forms that allow you to keep up with and reconcile your work with the family. We want the family and we want to grow up, and we need to motivate them, a lot more than we've already given. These forms, however, are also motivated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u94	I agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u95	When a man, as they do all over Europe now, says, I want to work for a few days more and add these hours I get to do something else I like, when everywhere in Europe they have this right, do we say to younger generations you don't have it, or do you have to be approved by the party to obtain this right? We're giving rights. It's a progressive bill. It's a bill, which, here, we're gonna be, you'll be afflicted all next week, and most of all you'll be afflicted when - and here's the worst - they'll all start using it. You're always saying that the bosses are bad. Of course there are bad bosses. There are good and bad MPs, good and bad ministers, good and bad children, good and bad bosses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u96	Bad ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u97	Please, not that kind of comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u98	Of course! It's our job to choose what we want to do and how we want to do it and judge them. So we have to give opportunities and we will give it this opportunity. I have heard the KKE rapporteur say for thirty-five hours. It is original in thirty-five that he did not say thirty-six, forged by the French and called it a French patent. However, I would like to ask: If we were to agree - in theory I agree - that we should go to less working hours, competitiveness, productivity must go up, we must do all the same as Mr Hatzidakis's report and Parliament is discussing it. If we agreed on that, why would we disagree on flexible work? Why would we disagree with flexible forms of work? Why would we disagree on the arrangement? So I think we have a little mixed up in how we think about it. We need to get the parties out, so we can start thinking a little more openly, a little more sensitive in reality that is ahead of us. We want to attract - and we do not disagree - new forms of entrepreneurship in Greece. We want to get back from the outside, which unfortunately have been exiled, people capable. How will they come back? Will they leave their chances there? It was read in the morning by my good colleague at SKAI to me that I was next to him that a gentleman who has gone to do his specialty because he was not here as a doctor cardiologist, said that I was taking advantage of this measure. I take advantage of it because I want to see my kids growing up, not later. I'll make money tomorrow. That's exactly what he said. We therefore need to adapt. I don't want any more time. Only two remarks, because Mr Villardos, who is always financially read, raised a subject that is very important. The House, anyway, controls the Statistical Authority. Mr. Villiandos has nothing but to ask for control. But that's not right. It is not right and it is a problem for the Greek Parliamentary Representative to say that the Statistical Office does not have the authority it deserves and that it needs to have. If he hadn't, you'd see it at the bond rates. You'd see it there. As we have seen, and as we see it today in how they have been these days. After all, like the fact that industrial production has been making 22% on the month of April, when the data came out, which is the best performance since we entered the crisis, in 2010, which is 10 points above where SYRIZA left him. All of this shows that we are facing challenges that we must take. And in order to get them, gentlemen of the opposition, we must distinguish between overtime and work arrangement. They're two different worlds. Come on and next door, there's room. In any case, I will do my best, Minister, to convince my group to go to a roll-call vote. I want to see you vote against the arrangements for fathers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr Papadimitriou, and respect for the time. Mr George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin by referring to the day of honor and remembrance from the Holocaust of the Diastom. On June 10, 1944, the time for one of the most horrendous, heinous crimes against humanity was practically stopped. Two hundred twenty-eight dead, women, children, old people. An atrocity against a people, against democracy and freedom. These memories should teach us that we should be united toward any such appeal. Listening to SYRIZA colleagues and especially to the latter, they reminded me of a proverb in our places that "the fasting carved dreams". Obviously you're divorced, SYRIZA's colleagues, with the reality. Why is the reality what he says? It says that the New Democracy, our Government, after about two years - in about a month we close two years - governance and having to face the worst health crisis of all times, having to face an aggression from the East, having to deal with natural phenomena difficult, disasters, remains the strong political force that enjoys the confidence of the Greek people. And if this is not enough for you, are you not concerned about the fact that the international markets trust Greece, they no longer trust the Government of New Democracy and they come and lend us at extremely low interest rates? Aren't these, if anything, samples of writing on the right path, the effective path followed by Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy? We are discussing today a bill dealing with self-evidentity, which has been speeded up by pandemic, which is true that it has afflicted and tested the tolerances of all of us, our patience, our health, our economy, but, at the same time, it has also worked as an accelerator in certain procedures, such as teleworking. A little violent? A little steep? A little unprepared? But it came into our lives and we did it, despite any difficulties, despite the fact that it was probably an unprecedented process. We have succeeded, worked effectively and now, with the draft law brought by the Ministry of Interior, to integrate it into our everyday lives, to actually integrate it into this reality from which you - as I said - are divorced. And, you know, when we were students, we could easily say "real in fact, if it doesn't agree with us". Today, however, we must adapt to reality, try to shape it, but above all look ahead. Because, beyond reality, I have the feeling that SYRIZA has been divorced from the notion of change, transformation, reform, progressivity. He stands negatively on everything, just as long as he is against the government. This is not a scrupulous opposition, it is not a strong political force and, in particular, a bill that will soon come to Parliament - next week - and it is about adapting to the new reality, adapting to developments, to the future of working conditions. And you use fine arguments that have nothing to do with reality. You're saying it's gone eight hours. But where did you see it? The base of the bill isn't eight hours, is it not forty hours a week? Why do you want us to deprive business and, above all, the worker who wants to have a flexibility over the eighth hour and working for some days, some hours, more use these days with permits or an extra day off? Why don't you think of all those - and above all of the periodic workers in tourism - who work four, five months and more than eight hours a day, who will make use of this possibility to count the extra working time, with both their insurance capabilities and their pension opportunities? I shall fully support what the previous colleague said. I'd really like to see what you're going to say to the working father, who has extra privileges with the new draft law. Ladies and gentlemen, nature itself condemns all those species that cannot be adapted to the new reality and, it seems, you are probably a species to political extinction, because you cannot really adapt to the reality, you cannot follow developments, you cannot be innovative, you can be pioneers. You've become backwards, you've done more than just conservative things. Here, Minister, I would like to say that the process that gives the workers of mountainous, disadvantaged and remote regions the possibility of feeding and housing is moving in the right direction. And I'm telling you this because the day before yesterday I visited the mountainous municipality of Argithea, where his problem is the key force. This regulation is coming to give new opportunities, new opportunities for people who want to work in these areas, and above all it makes it easier for them to do so. It is right that the amendment to the regulation of debts should be included. I would like you to consider the possibility of giving an additional extension to the opportunity given for the declaration of additional squares to the local authorities to those who have not done so far. They're enough, and I think we should do it. Teleworking - and I close with this - is also an opportunity for mountain, disadvantaged areas or the countryside, so that workers can make use of this new opportunity there. As long as we run faster the extension of new technologies to 'leukes', as they are said, regions. The new Republic, ladies and gentlemen, is responding to the roots of the times. It's a power of change, it's a power of modernisation, it's a force of progress. That is how we will proceed and those who can follow us. Let the rest stay with their ideas and obsessions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, too. Mrs. Rallia Christidou is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, which is elected in the B3' South Athens Sector. Here, Mrs. Christidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in the unusual position of discussing in plenary a half bill, a bill which, according to its title, relates to teleworking, but only to the public sector, while rules on teleworking in the private sector appear in another bill, which is also being discussed at the same time in Parliament's committees. Included in Article 67 in the abstract bill of the "Industrial Ministry", which is falsely called the Ministry of Labour. The reason why teleworking and the necessary arrangements have been divided into two bills is only the excellent ones of the ‘final’ state understand it. The rest of the common mortals would expect a bill that would address the whole issue. What should we assume? Cowardice of Ministers? Couldn't get to know even that? At least half of the bill you bring to us today has a consistency, to some extent, with some of the axes that run it, so that our debate can take place on them? Unfortunately, no. The majority of serious issues are referred to as being regulated by a presidential decree and ministerial decisions, which, of course, we do not see for the first time. It is, on the contrary, a systematic practice which runs counter to any rule of democratic legislation and, ultimately, only legalised is transparency by abolishing parliamentary dialogue. At the same time, even the principles of teleworking are formulated in a regulatory and non-structured and coherent way, which will cause serious problems in the future. On the substance, none of the issues at issue concerning teleworking are dealt with in this draft law. On purpose you leave the institutional framework unclear and confusing to obtain general approval from Parliament and then form it as you wish. First of all, the protection of workers' rights is not guaranteed in a clear way. How will working hours be safeguarded? How will the right to disconnect and, more generally, all the rights provided for by labour law and applicable to physical workers be safeguarded? How can the Labour Inspectors' College carry out effective control of compliance with the institutional framework? The bill is silent or serves in vulnerabilities, in vain, leaving wide margins of work digital jungle. The risk of complete deregulation of working conditions, the risk of elastic working hours, the risk of insecure labour relations being assessed and treated in this draft law. And, of course, all this is absolutely consistent with this neoliberal idea of yours. Does the bill provide for the equipment to be used in teleworking? The so-called final legislature considers it quite obvious that the equipment will be of the worker and there is neither provision for the provision of equipment nor for its upgrading. With regard to the protection of personal data and the privacy of teleworkers, but even to the protection of citizens' data, where their cases will be resolved by means of teleworking, is there any specific provision? Let us consider the provisions of the bill vaguely. in the best case. Despite antivirus and firewalls that the agency is supposed to provide and we will see in practice whether or not to apply, does the Ministry not know that it is much easier to hack into the private network of an employee's private network, for example, unlike the network of a ministry, a public service? Is there any provision on the legal responsibilities that may arise from any loss and breach of personal data in the context of the exercise of telework? The answer is 'no'. Does at least the bill address the question of covering the operating costs of workers, who now grant their space? There is not one single reference to covering Internet and telephony connection costs, as well as cooling and heating from the use of the workplace home. Does it at least ensure the voluntary nature of teleworking so that it is not allowed to be accepted to the management right arbitrarily and without criteria? The limited number of civil servants requires the adoption of objective criteria for their choice and on this basis again not a word. Does it involve teleworking in collective bargaining and collective agreements? The answer again is 'no'. And how else could it be done by a government that feels allergy to any collective institutions to defend labour rights? Is the bill dealing with occupational diseases or accidents which may arise in the exercise of teleworking? The answer once again is 'no'. Does the curiosity and the gaps of the bill surprise us? The answer here is 'no', does not surprise us. We've taken written samples of how the government means teleworking. We saw in the sensitive area of education. We have seen how many thousands of teachers have tried to meet the needs of their students, with whatever technological means each has had, at their own expense, while the state has provided no help to strengthen technological pupils and teachers, neither in the first wave of pandemic nor in the second wave of pandemic. We have seen how unprotected the personal data of teachers and students have been left, just as unprotectedly you are now leaving the data of the employees involved in teleworking and of the public. In other words, we have tasted how you mean teleworking as a government and the draft law you have brought confirms everything we know about both intentions and your governmental weaknesses and failures. And I'm closing, Mr. President. As you have heard, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, today outside the House from the crowds of protesters who strike against your policy are too many of those who have now understood you, no matter what your orderly polls are telling you. And you know what? The irresponsible landscape created by pandemic conditions there is no doubt that regulation was needed. If the arrangement would be in the interests of workers, in the interests of the services, for the benefit of the citizens, that was the bet and, as it was expected, this bet has been lost once again. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. Since I'm upstairs, Mrs. Christidou, you're the only one to make remarks - suggestions to the bill. Good for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u104	What did you say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u105	Since I've been here, she was the only one making comments on the bill and suggestions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u106	Well, then you had to give them two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u107	I shall give the floor to the Minister for Education, Mrs Kerameou, for an amendment which has 920/49.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, an amendment from the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs has been tabled, including the following. As you would remember last year, the skill workshop program in our country's schools had been passed. Since last year in a hundred and eighteen schools in the country, skill workshops were introduced, aiming at developing skills for children, skills such as critical thinking, empathy, teamwork, problem solving. This programme is now extended to all schools in the country - kindergartens, primary and high schools - on the basis of the pilot, respectively, the programme of activities in English, which was also implemented pilotically last year in school and now go to universal application this year. Also, as you know, there are permanent appointments to general education. That is why we have made some arrangements on organic positions that are necessary in the context of these permanent appointments. It has also been announced for a long time and provision has been made for an extension of the teaching year for primary education by the end of June, a transitional arrangement for the OASS of apprenticeships and two arrangements on religions, for example the resolution of the issue of Muslim burial and other relevant issues in an amendment we have tabled. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u109	Thank you too, Minister. Let's go to the third circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr. Savvas Snowides from New Democracy and the beautiful Katerini with Plaka Litohorou and Olympus will open the court. The following are Mrs Kafantaris, Mr Cappatos, Mr Kegeroglou, who is at the Conference of Presidents, Mr Consolas and then Mr Paulakis. Mr. Snowides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much for the love you always show for Pieria and her beauty. Thank you very much, like most Greeks who know Pieria and Olympus. Mr Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we systematically see that this government and this Minister are taking a step and always at the right time we are all setting up the Greek puzzle together tomorrow, what we promised in the run-up to the election and which we are setting up in a dynamic way. Because Greece must go forward, Greece goes ahead with concrete stepping, with surely steps, step on our feet and do what the new times require. Of course, a lot of issues have been heard here. I'm very glad there's a consensus in general. We have heard more about what we will have the enormous comfort of three days to discuss on the subject of industrial relations. I won't stand on this. Colleagues and colleagues, three whole days! It's a pleasure to the minister's courage to hear them. So we're not going to say anything about it. There have also been complaints about the functioning of the public service. And I ask: When was the public's function perfect and suddenly we remembered it now? Do steps need to be taken? Does the electronic equipment and digital infrastructure need to be strengthened? But it's clear. The competition's over already. The digital infrastructure competitions are running and, to remind you in the Chamber, let's go "fiber to the home", the fibre at home. Our schools, the public buildings have almost all fibers. So they need all of this. Because things have been heard. Yes, he wants a change, the whole electronic system, as in most public services, even in ADAP. No one disagrees with that. So what comes with this bill is what was the next step. And why in the right time? Because we had to have the experience, how to legislate better, after this case of the coronary that has troubled us all. But it also has positive side effects. It made us less illuminated digitally. We all learned from Grandpa, who wants to talk to the grandchildren, what "ZOM" is and everything else. So it's easier. There is no technology anymore, especially in older ages, and that is important. Now is the opportunity to take the step that we need. Does that have any flaws? We can find a thousand if we want to talk. First of all, the law defines clear elements, it is voluntary, it is equal treatment, it is personal data guaranteed - and I will refer to it a little -, there is respect for privacy. We put an alarm on the real life or anything else at home. Many people have referred to the hacking that can be done in this communication of civil servants. But in our home, where we've put all the real firewalls, maybe some time professionals or supervisors come in, rob us or steal it. So there's always this possibility in both the real world and the digital world. Are we taking all the measures as public? Clearly we're getting them. Beyond all this, we have the teleworking stations that will work. Every employee will have the teleworking station. In the second part of this draft law, at last, Minister, even with small steps, something is being done about the question of evaluation, which we must speed up, despite the particular circumstances, such as ensuring that disciplinary measures are disciplinary, operational and informative. But the dominance here - and someone who is not from an island - is from Pieria - is that the island of Greece must take care of it by action rather than by words. Greece is a multi-seasonal one, and this is a huge step, which we give local officials, in addition to others, so that they can operate these islands under these conditions. Greece wants to act. Greece wants acts, as do the unreserved regions, which will find very positive results from this case, after the vote on today's law. I also found no contradictions in this bill. Contrasts were in a number of other things. Actually, there's a sympathy. We all say 'yes' to teleworking and there are details. Now someone's gonna tell me, what model of legislating to follow? What defines precisely everything in the period 1920-1960 or the French model, which says that we define the basic principles and that way through ministerial decisions, do we have to define the details? Of course, when we say ministerial decisions, we do not say delaying a few months or a few years. All governments since the beginning of the Greek state have the defect of delaying and having forgotten ministerial decisions. We believe that the areas which are currently taking place and the determination of this Minister and the Minister in question make us feel confident that we will go a great deal ahead, which we ought to move forward. As far as the 'raining' amendment is concerned, as Makis Voridis likes to say, as regards the part to make the censuses of municipal resignations, the exceptional debt arrangement - which is important aid, which is why we must do so to the citizens who owe the municipalities, to remove the groves and all the rest - and to give an extension to the municipal properties that have actually suffered damage, to participate more strongly in the 'Antonis Tritsis' with all the conditions of development, we need all this today and good as an amendment to the draft law. As far as the part of local government is concerned. And there Greece needs local self-government to progress independently, self-evident, with a dynamic local government of 1 and 2 degrees. We are taking important steps and there will be even more, because there is only an interest in the Greek society to have a powerful self-government. The Ministry's course so far shows. In conclusion, I would like to refer to something that is the first to the choices of all of us, I think, and also to the Government of New Democracy. It's what Nikki Kerameo just testified. We said that degrees and formal qualifications are good. The most important thing today is skills. It is to the honour of the Ministry that puts such a huge priority - after we voted - to be able to improve the skills of our children, tomorrow's citizens. It is very important and useful. Why were voices heard saying: 'And why should someone who has proficiency be considered in public administration?' Because that's what's going on around the world. Do we want the best? Sit down and prove it. Are you a good engineer with a degree? Untie me these issues. These skills in which the law we voted here in the House on ASAP included them. We've included a skill test. We want this Greece, the worthy, the skilled, the people who prove that they can do the best. Unless in public we have to put the worst, the least skilled, those who are unable to withstand, of course, with the exception of people with disabilities. I conclude, Mr President, by agreeing that the confidence shown by the world of Greece and, more generally, by the government of Mitsotakis is systematically demonstrated. I'll say something in numbers. I'm not going to mention the 0.9% interest rate we got. I'll make it money. In ten years, then, when this government took over at 3.9% interest in ten years, we would pay 523 million interest. Today with 0.9% we'll pay 115. So I, you, all the Greeks, will save 407 million 942 thousand euros. That means trust, that means we lend more easily, because we have built that confidence. We can build more together, because we all believe in progress, we all believe that Greece deserves much more. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, too. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I cannot comment on my fellow Member, Mr Snowides, who has given me the starting point to say about Greece of the finest of the New Democracy. What does it mean in practice, ladies and gentlemen? Does it mean we want to appoint someone to the public as Secretary-General, counselor, head of a authority and not qualified? We're changing the law. This is the Greece of the finest of the New Democracy, which we experience every day. In fact, this debate in plenary is taking place today in a climate of racing, within a climate of reaction from the world of work to the new employment abortion prepared by the government and from the next Monday we will be discussing here in Parliament, the dismantling of labour law, the abolition of rights and, of course, the service of great economic interests and, above all, of BSE. The workers gave an answer to all of Greece today with the mobilizations that have taken place. But the fight goes on. All according to the New Democracy in the name of the modernization of labour law. In other words, modernization for the New Democracy is the conditions of work gala, the abolition of labour rights, the hitting of the trade union movement, or the trade union movement that serves us. It serves us governmentally, it serves us if you want to do so as far as specific interests are concerned. A bill which, however in vain colleagues from New Democracy have tried to defend and beautify in the Chamber, nor in the trade union groups that are facing the Government of New Democracy, find a consensus. Well, it makes sense that today's debate focuses on this issue. We've heard too much. I am going to refer to what was heard by my colleague in the Western Sector, Mr Loverdos, that the left is to blame because the country went bankrupt in 2010. If that's possible! Who have ruled decades by 2010 is known. Mr. Cyranakis in everything he said forgot to tell us how young people will complete this CV to find a job. Because they don't find a job in him because they don't know how to fill in a CV. So let's get serious. I'm coming to the draft law. We are indeed in a new era, the digital age. We are living in a digital revolution, but this digital age and revolution must serve and improve working conditions better. It must improve the reduction of working time, which is also done at a pan-European level and, of course, it must not create additional commitments, in addition to the exploitation of workers. The fact is that the pandemic formed a different landscape and forced the world of work to reorganise and adapt to these new conditions. International research shows that the pandemic involves a change of culture in relation to work. Studies at the University of West Attica say that one in six Greeks -17% - had experience of teleworking before the pandemic. I mean, only one in six. Also, that the 12.4% of those who were fried would like to continue to work full-time and 47.4% said they did not want it. Workers feel uncertain and unsafe about the circumstances in the new form of work, which is also the case for employers. Also, the University of Economics in March 2021 talked about the issue of a combination of personal - family life with professional in the same area, the conversion of the house into an office, with no limit, with a merge of family life completely in professional life. Teleworking, combined with teleworking, finds parents in an absolute disorganization, as they must also control electronic school, but also the demanding supervisor, who, through teleworking, has entered the home. We understand the circumstances. Daily and social contact in the workplace due to this restriction has been completely eliminated, as all communications have been limited electronically only. They turn the job into numbers and production. Special psychologists and experts are talking about the danger to workers ’ psychiatry from teleworking. The person resigns, does not take care of his personal hygiene, external appearance, diet, sleeping hours etc. And for teachers, the problem is very great, in the sense that special studies say that the educational community itself throughout the world thinks it is difficult to adequately replace the physical relationship between a student and a learner and the interaction of pupils in the school environment. We're coming to the draft law. which, as mentioned before, contains a number of authorizing provisions. It is a common phenomenon in the legislature made by the Government of New Democracy. It refers to delegated acts, to the adoption of Presidential Decrees in the future. This means poor legislation, but also transparency and democratic legitimacy, as defined by Article 58 of the Final State Act. There is a matter of safeguarding personal data. Other colleagues have said so. The framework for encouraging teleworking for special groups, such as disabled people, with chronic diseases, single parent families, is also not clear. And for the equipment, there is one issue in the supply of equipment. I mean who will cover costs for the teleworker but also something else very important: the possible party to be made by direct assignments for electronic equipment. We want complete transparency in this part of public and private procurement. I cannot recall, Mr President, that recently in the European Parliament, the New Democracy MEPs voted for an amendment providing for the freezing of the right to decoupling for the teleworker, i.e. they voted against, to close the laptop, to close the computer, the mobile phone, when the work is done, without fear of dismissal. This may show some thoughts and possible intentions. But, Mr. Voridis, I have some questions. You are intended to depend on the employees who will be subject to teleworking directly from the management right of the superior. How will the voluntary nature of the flexible form of employment be guaranteed? How are personal rights guaranteed? Will workers be pressed, blackmailed for teleworking? Is teleworking designed indirectly to reduce the number of workers and to increase, to say better, unemployment? This is a serious matter. Will the personal balance be ensured, mentally-professional, of all workers? But do you have a clear objective in this draft law for the isolation of workers from one another? The blow of unionism as you mean it? Unionism is the core of a democratic state. The right to assemble and codecision is a fundamental element of democracy. That is why we have no confidence in you, ladies and gentlemen, in the implementation of this draft law on teleworking. We have too many reservations and we don't trust you. I'm hanging up. Clearly for the amendment to the National School of Public Administration you bring us a method, a competition of old times, two to three months before carrying out the examinations, which creates a great deal of problems for our prepared citizens to give examinations to the National School. This means extra costs, care centres, access to information, etc. These are serious issues, and any change could be democratically debated in Parliament as well. Of course, as always, it doesn't apply next time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u114	I'm closing, Mr. President. The same goes for the pan-Hellenics. In the pan-Hellenics that start directly, the base changes, the way in which it is introduced. There is a danger of twenty-five thousand, thirty thousand young children staying out of university after the suffering of the pandemic. And you've been applying the regulations you've made for hardworking students for summer high school since now. This raises many questions as to your objectives. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, too. I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Eleftherios Economou, for the amendment number 921 and a special 100. Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the Minutes the above-mentioned legislative improvements, which are as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 229-231]] Ladies and gentlemen, the government with its methodicity and realism promotes necessary legislative intervention and continues to face up to all kinds of abstract challenge. In this context, and for the purpose of strengthening our national capacity to monitor and monitor our external borders, we are taking the necessary steps to ensure, among other things, the funding needed to recruit the necessary personnel from European funds, such as the Asylum, Migration and Integration Fund, as well as the Internal Security Fund. At the same time we are developing all the necessary initiatives to resolve issues that may arise in the design, development and implementation of our government policies. That is why I am in this House today, with the aim of resolving a number of issues relating to the area of fixed-term border guards. Such issues are: Firstly, the process of renewing the term of office of fixed-term border guards. This is a matter that requires immediate resolution, as the first five hundred thirty-four fixed-term border guards complete their annual term of office in July 2021. Secondly, the possibility of these border guards being able to work at institutionalised entry and exit points, in particular airports, but also to further expand their tasks, with a view to more effective protection of our country's borders. Thirdly, the possibility of covering fixed-term border guard posts by candidates who have been resident for the last two years or who have been resident for up to the sixteenth year of their age in other regions than those in which the necessary number has not been met because of a reduced interest in candidates. We thus avoid the current requirement of the legislator for a new notice, which would lead to a long-term delay. In addition, the objective of that legislative initiative and in particular Articles 5 and 6 shall be to present hereafter the candidates for recruitment, classified as officials of the Greek Police in psychometric trials. Our aim is to identify the necessary mental and mental skills, which will guarantee greater objectivity and effectiveness in their judgment. The sum of the provisions of this legislative initiative shall be supplemented by the provisions of Article 7 and the granting of special allowances to pupils of the Greek Police Schools. We are supplementing existing provisions of the legislator, which have resulted in the lack of the institutional framework necessary to date, so that the administration can employ the teachers for work beyond the 50th day and also for night employment. This resulted in the continuous movement of staff from urban centre services to tourist destinations, especially during the summer months, because the service needs are then particularly increased. Under the current legislative framework, these needs can be met exclusively by permanent police personnel and not by teachers in their practical training. It is now possible both to ensure the continued functioning of the services and to train in realistic conditions for students, but without this government initiative they would be invited to continue to reside in places away from the school headquarters, at a high cost of living and without the possibility of receiving the compensation provided for permanent police personnel working with them. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, all the provisions making up our legislative intervention in the context of a debate and a vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs raise at the heart of issues of police personnel and the proper functioning of the services of the Greek Police in the direction of the implementation of its mission. It aims at the best support of the staff already serving, while establishing, through more specific forecasts, psychometric suitability criteria for candidates, the aim of upgrading the level of preliminary examinations to which the future members of the Greek Police will henceforth be submitted. With regard to Articles 8 and 9 of this amendment, I would like to point out that they concern necessary government initiatives to ensure the high level of services provided to citizens, as well as more effective crisis and risk management, particularly during the current period with the risk of COVID -19 pandemic remain. Therefore, Article 8 gives the necessary time-limit for the contracts of staff of the General Secretariat of Civil Protection serving as part of a fixed-term private labour relationship, which was hired to strengthen the General Secretariat of Civil Protection for the purpose of more efficiently addressing the risk of dispersal of COVID -19, as well as for other health and all kinds of risks. They are executives responsible for central and regionally responsible for the important task of tracing and monitoring isolation procedures, as well as for controlling patients in Coronovirus, as well as for their close contacts. These eight-month contracts, in accordance with the existing legislative framework, expire on 13 August 2021, and we extend them for about a month and a half. The same is true for Article 9, which deals with matters relating to the staff of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. Given the ongoing unfinished global health crisis due to COVID -19, as well as other particularly increased service needs of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, the time needed to extend up to 31/12-2021, which will ensure the fullest service and service of its operational needs through the process of transfer of civil servants. The necessary additional time shall therefore be provided for this process to ensure that the body's duties are carried out in the most excellent way and to function more effectively for the sake of the wider social system. As far as Article 10 is concerned, I would like to say the following. Government intervention is strictly concerned with the legislative improvement through a more complete wording of the first subparagraph of paragraph 8 of Article 79 of Law 4504/2017 on import testing at the Schools of Testimonials Significant Port Authority of the Hellenic Coast Guard and Port Guard Testers. This eliminates any ambiguity which may have arisen in the interpretation of that provision and ensures the equal framework for carrying out such tests among all applicants. The Greek Coast Guard amendment provides that candidates will be considered to have obtained the preliminary examinations, health, athletics and psychometric tests carried out, as is now stated, during the school year of the pan-Hellenic examinations. This avoids the case of a candidate for a cadet who has obtained the above tests following the forthcoming pan-Hellenic examinations of June 2021 to invoke his success and claim that he is not involved in the corresponding examinations of the pan-Hellenic examinations of the year 2022, which will take place in the autumn of 2021. For these reasons, I invite you to support the government initiative by voting on these articles. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u118	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u119	Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u120	I want to put forward legislative improvements. Ladies and gentlemen, we are putting forward legislative improvements that we have already developed in their main content in the committee. In fact, the crucial issues, if you want, and fundamental issues of legislative improvements - because otherwise, they are issues of legal adequacy - are that we exclude them from the scope of the law of teleworking their heads. So the superintendents can't get into telework. And the second thing we do is that we accept, as I said, an observation from the Privacy Authority. The relevant provision is therefore read as follows: ‘The Personal Data Protection Authority shall issue its opinion within 15 days of sending to it the draft Presidential Decree of the accelerated Ministry. The expedited expiry of that period shall not prevent the adoption of the Presidential Decree.’. The authority will therefore be consulted on the adoption of the relevant presidential decree provided for. We also accept a number of remarks made by the Citizens' Counsel, specifying in the scope the independent authorities. So there is no misunderstanding. In my opinion, it was rather self-evident, but in any case that would be clarified. A correction to our amendment to the extension of the union elections has been requested by the Ministry of Labour and concerns trade unions. She wants to bring the corresponding provision and she will be brought by the Ministry of Labour to regulate it. I think that these are the legislators we're going to testify to. I would like to say a half word about the parliamentary amendments. Four testimonies have been filed. We reject them all. One of the Change Movement, which concerns the extension of the mandate of the ESDC institutions, has been tabled, is covered by the provision that we have already tabled. One has been tabled on the issue of disabled people in teleworking, so I will explain in my speech what our position is. Two of them have been tabled by Mera25, which are submitted and re-issued, rejected as late and as having nothing to do with the draft law and any other ministries being discussed. I do not know why Mera25 is doing this because we have said so before, but it is constantly tabling the same amendments and rejecting them on the same grounds continuously. That's your thing because you're doing it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u121	I would ask that they be distributed. Mr Cappato, it is your turn, but I will give the floor to Mr Kegeroglu, because he has to go to the Conference of Presidents. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu of the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President, and my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate within Parliament on the issue of teleworking in the public sector is, of course, in a different climate from what is expected next week for regulations at work, because, on the one hand, the question of telework that we are debating today comes to cover a real need and, on the other hand, we have a positive attitude to the provisions that you can judge on many points about their shortcomings, but also to table proposals, they do not have a negative burden on what is coming next week. It is the day by night, I would say, and that is, of course, something to do with the nature of the policy chosen by the Government for the private sector in particular. As our rapporteur has said, the seven conditions for a fair institutional framework for teleworking, and we are talking about conditions of regularity, are: First of all it must be the right of the civil servant and not the obligation. Wage pay and, more generally, labour rights should not be affected. We must not have worsened the disparities between teleworkers and non-workers, because we have actually seen this in the pilot run. To ensure that personal data are fully guaranteed, it is an improvement made by the Minister and I think it is in a positive direction. The smooth and uninterrupted functioning of the public service should be ensured and its programming should not be reversed. The possibility of teleworking being allowed not to take account of any discrimination between workers, of course, with the responsibility of the administration, or with regard to the exclusion of persons with disabilities. Do not degrade and complicate the conditions in which teleworking is provided. These are seven basic conditions and principles for teleworking. Here I would like to say that the pandemic came dramatically to remind us of a lot of things we have not done, but also a lot of what we have a policy that does not have the man at its centre should have come from the first day. I think, in other words, that the debate today should have taken place in April 2020. And I say this with certainty, because this need has really existed since the first day, but the reflection has existed in previous years. Remote work had been introduced in some way, but there was no framework. So we come to discuss a bill, which is simple, of course, has a few articles, but it is rich in authorizing. I think it provides for five, six ministerial decisions, presidential decree, etc. It could, of course, have been a systematic job since last year if the framework had been in place for it to have come beforehand. Here, of course, unlike the private sector, things are more relaxed here. In the private sector, they are also defined for the employee's obligations and also for the employer's obligations with the bill that we are going to discuss. It's a contradiction in relation to the general nature of the bill that's coming. So here I would like to point out that the issue of the settlement must be justified, it must be a matter which will serve the needs of the service and the citizen, but which does not affect workers' rights in any way. The limitation entered for the quarter shall not be substantiated either scientifically or operationally. What is the reason why this restriction is limited, what is the need for? The issue with people with disabilities seems to me to be a crucial issue. In any case, we have an obligation from both the Constitution and international conventions for people with disabilities ratified by the Greek Parliament since '12 to see how the framework of support for people with disabilities, as well as for members of the families with disabilities, will best be done. This support and a different approach are needed to reach an equal degree in relation to the rest of the workers. In this respect we have tabled the amendment, namely the proposals by the ESDC, the needs that are identified. ESEMA has studied this. I think the word'rejection' that you said, Mr Minister, is wrong. You may say that "I am not accepting it in this bill", but that is not the way to reject a proposal, as to its content, I mean, when it contains substantial proposals, regardless of whether or not things are mature on the part of yours to include it in the bill. I think you have said that in the standard sense. I shall now refer to the National School of Public Administration. Extended material is imported. And I say expanded matter is for everyone, you said it yourself. Look, however, it cannot be applied immediately, in a year with problems, in the sense that all candidates, of course, will be judged by the National School of Public Administration on different terms from last year's. What difference does that make, you tell me. Of course it must not be seen that the 2021 series is lower because they will all get lower on equal terms than last year. That is a matter. I think there is no reason to put it this year. And I end my position with the amendment to regulate the debts to the municipalities. Look. There are two topics in this amendment. The first concerns what arrears he has to bear, and the second is how much time we give him to join the arrangement. Unfortunately, what debts he has had when the first amendment had come, but was badly judged by the government, he tells the debts that arise after February when the pandemic took effect. But I'm telling you this detail, Minister. The 2019 debts planned by the businessman, planned by the family chief, planned by the professional to pay them from the revenues of 2020, were unfortunately not paid. It wasn't a mess. He made a programming. All the debts of 19, 18, accumulated, would pay them next year. The pandemic is coming, it gets into zero income - it concerns a large group of people - and the problem arises and it is acute. So it will have to change that and be all dues. Moreover, it is easier for the municipalities to collect the sums due to them. Whether they accumulate there and people are charged with interest, interest, etc. It does not say anything about the result, which is to collect as many time as possible. You're saying June 30th. Why until June 30th? Give a longer deadline. In June 30th, it may well be, without any risk of the municipalities being able to inform the public, that everyone who has arrears of debts will be informed, and that they will have the best effect by joining these arrangements, giving a breath and a way out. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The reason is now Mr. Cappatos from New Democracy and beautiful Kefalonia. I also thank him for making it easier. I am aware - and in particular Mr Dermenzopoulou, who is very early in the Chamber - that Mr Polakis will then speak, immediately after the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Ragus, and then you are. Here, Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my position by repeating a finding that has been mentioned several times in this debate here, the discovery of the new reality that the COVID crisis has brought to our daily lives -19 by transferring a number of wider activities to the digital sphere. We have seen areas such as education, employment and our free time change radically and quickly, both in terms of their content and in terms of how these activities are carried out. There is no doubt that the crisis of the coronary works as an intersection for our daily lives and the way we understand things. The public sector could not be an exception to this new reality. Our daily presence in the public services was almost nullified, while electronic communication restored to an exceptional extent the majority of our transactions with the public. On the other hand, the subject of human resources itself has been adapted accordingly. The obligation of a substantial proportion of workers for distance work to limit the dispersion of COVID -19 has highlighted telework as a necessary and not an additional method of work. In this unprecedented environment, new needs arise, from which our own obligation to legislate, in order to satisfy them. Such a field is teleworking. If, before the pandemic, distance work was applied to a rather periodic level and sporadicly, today is in the first instance in the way we work and produce a product and a result. So today, practically, what do we import? The draft law of the Ministry of Home Affairs attempts for the first time to establish a uniform procedure for all operators of working organisation and management, a procedure on the basis of common principles, methods of organisation and management of work, rules for the protection of personal data and confidentiality, rules for the use of information and communication technology, as well as all procedures provided for, both in normal and crisis situations. The draft law also sets out the basic principles governing teleworking. More specifically, it concerns the voluntary nature, the principle of equal treatment of workers and non-personnel workers, the protection of personal data and respect for the privacy of workers. In addition, management rights are strengthened. A decision of the Director shall determine the pace of the teleworkers, of course taking into account the service needs, the nature of their duties and the smooth functioning of the operator. Rules are laid down at the same time in order to ensure privacy and personal data for teleworkers. Apart from the obvious, the creation of an effective institutional framework for teleworking, a number of important guidelines of public administration are implemented in this draft law. Productivity, effectiveness and the autonomy of workers are strengthened. Operational costs for the operator itself and the worker whose movement is limited, are reduced and ultimately the required digital transformation of the public sector is achieved. We are therefore talking about a new working culture that pandemic may have accelerated, but certainly came to stay. This culture of distance work is able to help, on the one hand, maintain jobs and, on the other, preserve the balance of private and professional life. Allow me to make a reference to the amendment on the National School of Public Administration. Given the importance of this productive school of senior civil servants, we cannot ignore both the importance and the necessity of the arrangements introduced by this regulation. The National Centre for Public Administration and the School in particular are undoubtedly central to the new government that we need as a state, a public administration with well-trained and well-prepared officials to respond to the increased public sector service challenges in our country. Today, then, the introductory competition of the National School of Public Administration is being strengthened. It strengthens the efficiency, effectiveness and above all its usefulness in the emergence of the potential candidates to attend the School and to participate in the higher levels of the public sector. At the same time, the prestige and history of the school is confirmed, which in nothing is lacking from similar renowned schools, such as the French emblematic School of Public Administration. In addition, participation in the board of directors of the Centre of Personalities with scope and staff from the school's innards confirms that I am acquainted with. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am thinking in a deeper sense of the institutional framework for work. The human potential of the public sector of every educational grade and service hierarchy is the soul and power of the organization of the state and of the public administration. Undoubtedly, those examples that defame the public or hinder the service of citizens exist. But if that was once the excuse for bureaucratic delays, we have the opportunity today to leave them behind. From the digital switchover of public services and the service of citizens to the teleworking that prompts us to legislate today, the public is changing. It changes why the conditions impose it, but also because at the wheel of the country there is a political force that speeds up reforms and confirms the will and dynamics of the country to take many steps forward. The draft law we are voting on today sparks this change and I invite you to vote for it without hesitation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. The Deputy of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paulakis from the beautiful Chania. Please too - to my right - cool! Here, Mr. Polakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Voridis, I had noted a few things to say about the bill you're bringing today. However, I was completely covered by the rapporteur and the position of Rallia Christidou before, and I will not go into the bill in particular, because you too are not talking about it, because you are making one thing that you are doing all in the Presidential Decrees and in future legislation. I think there was a very serious and thorough criticism from Rallia Christidou earlier. I went up for another reason. The day before yesterday, Mr. Mitsotakis came here and read a reason why he was written after having ensured that Alexis Tsipras had an appointment with the ADED and could not come here to answer him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u127	Is ADED before the House?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u128	Calm down, calm down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u129	Mr. Polakis, please. I accepted the replacement...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u130	I'll say what I want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u131	Not what you want. The parliamentary representative says what he wants. You'll talk about the bill. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u132	So since three consecutive Fridays did not show up to answer a question on the Prime Minister's time, he said a few things about the pandemic and twice - because I was sitting there - he looked at me in two parts of his speech, which are the first to answer today. The first was when he said: "Different rumours about drugs we don't bring and save people" and looked at me there. I could not answer him because he does not answer the Prime Minister, the Chief of Police is answering and I did not even say a speaker the other day. Well, listen, if "says and you, Sotiris" has not given the Prime Minister the hundreds of studies that have been taken out since October 2020 and so far, and it has not informed him that they are three companies that have produced monoclonal antibodies, which have proven themselves to be phase III studies, they now show that they are reducing either their own or their combination - because they are double and they are best at all and they are three companies, "ELI LILLY", "REGENERON" and "GLAXO" - by 70% the bad development of those who have indicated to take them, so they reduce the deaths of at least 50% to 60%, if they have not taken these studies, to take them. If he has not taken emergency approval from the FDA of November, if he has not received approval from him, which allows the national authorities to import them, if he has not told him that more than ten countries bring them with spectacular results having reduced deaths, he will do so by "say you, Sotiris". With Mr. Gogos, I spoke from yesterday about another incident, he told me that he was in favor. Mr. Heptactyl is in favor. Mr. Chiodras, who came here, said he was in favour of using the monoclonals. If they're all in favor, why don't they bring them? I'll tell you this, if SYRIZA was running right now, we had 12 thousand three hundred deaths, and we didn't bring treatments known and effective since November, but we had only bet all the money on the vaccine, what would happen? What would you do? Wouldn't you have pulled SKAI out of the hospitals, outside the units, interviewed with happy relatives and sprout and curse the SYRIZA government who don't bring the drugs to save the world? Here we were hung up in the handkerchiefs a year with the fewer dead from the flu, which we had thirty-seven dead then, and they said to me, "I've had fifteen out of the fifty years of my life in intensive care units to save a life, that we're greedy." And now with twelve thousand three hundred dead, it's just Thursday! Success! Moses! I don't know what we are. With 24% vaccination in the two doses, six months since it started, there is no recession, Mr Mitsotakis. Because he said that the other day. It comes because the weather has warmed and the activity of the coronary falls with the rise in temperature. We won't forget the medicine we know. With 60% and 70% vaccinated you create an immune barrier and not 24%. I say one thing to you, I say it again, and I have said it fifteen times and I will not get tired of saying it: When you are in a war like at the moment we are fighting, what we want first of all are bullets, guns and drugs! We don't want any fortifications for the next war, for the next battle. Of course we do. These fortification works, i.e. vaccines, take place in the breaks of pandemic and war. Now people are dying! Once again, I call again: bring them back now! There will be a wave in the autumn, probably not as strong as the previous ones, because we have many mutations. Get them now! You can't get away with the vaccine alone. Secondly, it is very important and I would like to be the Minister to see what SKAI and the other channels would do, the second time he looked at me was when he said: "You handed us over five hundred and fifty-seven beds and we have at this time a thousand and five hundred." That's the rumors and the distortion. Well, listen, to clear things up and listen once again to the Greek people, because Mr. Mitsotakis compares eggs with potatoes with what he did the other day. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] First, we did not deliver you five hundred and fifty-seven beds, we delivered you five hundred sixty-eight and from July 2019 to March 2020 you closed thirteen, because you moved staff and booked some beds. You started the five-five-five-five-five pandemic. What was that? They were multi-powered beds. Why are you saying today a thousand five hundred, which is not a thousand five hundred, but from the EGE report is about three hundred? What are you counting there? You measure the two hundred sixty in the private sector, the hundreds of eighty of special units, neurosurgeons, heart surgery, MAFs, plastic surgery, burns, trauma, post-operative care, the eighty of the military, which were also in our day, and many special units and MFFs and the neurosurgeons were made by us, the hypothetical. There were six hundred other beds then, except we didn't account for the five hundred sixty-eight who go into the EAW newspaper, because they don't do that job. They're not a multi-powered I.T. Beds. They're Special ID beds. So you put them in a bag, so you can say you're making them. Pumpkins with the oregano are those! Two hundred sculpture beds added now that you could, buy you by the European Central Bank "air" bonds and prints you money. We had to deliver what Adonis and Samaras gave us in 2014, the four hundred thirty-eight and six hundred that were less than four hundred, to see what you would do. That's the reality. Also, on the basis of the EGE - and here I want a concrete response from doctors - it seems that the intensive treatment units since they started today have evolved, that is, two and a half thousand people survived. Mrs. Cotanidou said we have 30% with 35% mortality. That is what I thought, but I saw that mortality is over 60%, based on the EGE data. If one computes this, one will see this: out of the twelve thousand three hundred who have died to date, the four and a half thousand have died in the ICUs, i.e. they have found a bed. The others where they died? Where'd you two and three thousand beds? With evidence from the EGE, a thousand eight hundred died in their homes. This is the success in the management of the pandemic! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] One more word, Mr President. Mr Mitsotakis flew a conversation to start a very bad debate, which has to do with the enforceability of vaccination. Well, what I mean is just a word on this matter, because the Parliamentary Assembly of the Council of Europe had replied on this matter. I would like to read the following, which is the post of a very old friend and compañera, a dentist, from the KKE at the time, which says this and fully covers me: "The mandatory medical actions are over with the Nuremberg court. The mandatory mass in everything is imposed and ultimately fascism. We are the sixth country in vaccinations in the European Union, so the political account and the debate on the privileges of responsible citizens are a debate on social marginalisation and arrogant race, vaccinated and persecuted plaques unvaccinated. Science is not a doctrine, neither a football shirt nor a religion. Science communicates its achievements and is convinced. If he can't do that, he's been sorely failed." For copying, Excellency Seret. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much. We have said so before, and I do not say that on the occasion of this speech, but in general. There is an explicit provision of Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure which cannot be ruled out either by the speaker or by the rapporteur. Please keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u134	Mr. President... (It has not been heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u135	What I'm telling you, Mr. Polakis. Because it's not right to remove the reason. It has not been done by the House in previous years or now. We should not be forced to do this. The provisions are very clear.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u136	Unfortunately for you, you're late to come and you're heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u137	Mr President, I would like the floor for a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u138	Here you go, Mr. Bukoro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u139	Ex-health minister, stay a minute! Mr President, thank you. However, a number of issues need to be answered. I would like to remind the former Minister of Health that the debate in which the Prime Minister was posted and from which he took the opportunity to answer and tell us again about the pandemic, according to the SYRIZA account, was not about the management of the pandemic. It was about the European Certificate, which is not a sanitary measure, it is mainly a measure of an economic and social nature. It's a passport of freedom, an opening of a highway for the visitors of the country. Now, the former SYRIZA Health Minister came here to do bankruptcy and create impressions and tell about victims and death in intensive care units. And, of course, by reading his partner's quote, we are the sixth country in the vaccinations in Europe. So, according to him, Greece is among the first countries in the vaccinations. He said it himself in his hurry to read this message. As far as the management of the pandemic is concerned, Parliament sometimes has the opportunity, at least once in the fortnight, either by means of legislation or by means of legislative initiatives by the government or through parliamentary control, to respond. We are also judged by the Greek people for the management of the pandemic. And his judgment, you know, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is currently not positive for you, it is not good for you at all. To sum up, Mr President, to present as the occasion that 'the Prime Minister has looked at me in plenary, so I am replying' goes beyond the limits of democratic dialogue and, if you like, shows an arrogant character. Others accuse us of arrogance, but arrogantness proves to be by the attitude of life and the political behavior of each of us in here. Mr President, I would ask you to take away my time because I am not a parliamentary representative. In conclusion - and to conclude - the occasion was wrong. We are talking today about a bill on teleworking, about another type of public sector activity, which concerns municipalities. Because the private sector has found him. SYRIZA officials also come to work on issues, whether for the current strike mobilisation ahead of the labour bill or for the management of the pandemic, which they believe favour them. There is nothing taught either by the latest election results of the last two years on either side of the polls or by what society says or by how much the country's image improves at European level. And instead of giving a reason for opposition, useful and productive for the country, to show that they really are the alternative - because that is the role of Officer Response, to convince the Greek people that it is an alternative - they are increasingly removed from the social and, by extension, from the electorate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u140	Now you're getting away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u141	Is that about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Giannoulis, if you don't understand it, I'm posted as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u143	I don't approve of it talking so much. But you didn't bother him talking ten minutes, you're now being bothered by two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u144	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u145	Please! Finish it, Mr. Buquoir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u146	If you'll excuse me, you don't have to approve it, the Rules of Procedure approve it. I am speaking as a parliamentary representative and have the right to place twelve plus three, fifteen minutes. You're interrupting to four or five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u147	Come on, Mr. Bukkaro, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u148	I will not waste time on this, Mr. Giannoulis. But what bothers you from what I'm saying?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u149	But why are you dialogue now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u150	You're teaching us, but... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u151	Don't have a dialogue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u152	Please, Mr. Giannoulis. Here we heard about the management of the pandemic in the teleworking bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u153	Time, however, you don't have, time hasn't come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Bukkaro, please don't have a dialogue. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u155	I won't have a dialogue. So I say that every day...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u156	Time, however, you don't have, time hasn't come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u157	Come on, Mr. Giannoulis, now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u158	We have heard Mr Polakis speak for ten minutes, without anyone interrupting him, except for the subject and all the other than the bill we are discussing today. I stand as a parliamentary representative and have been continuously interrupted. Are these your democratic tolerances, which you advertise?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u159	If you had time, we'd be in touch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u160	Hold on to your time, Mr. Giannoulis. You'll whistle the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u161	It's not my job.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u162	Mr. Buquoir, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to conclude by saying that the management of pandemic on such a large-scale issue by the government is being implemented satisfactorily, with any weaknesses, with which, in the face of this unprecedented enemy, we are also discussing bills at the same time, the need for which emerged from this great pandemic crisis. And such a bill is today's teleworking, which sets order and rules. And they agree with a misery, a criticism that has nothing to do with the bill and prove that they have no contact with the political reality of some of the SYRIZA colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u164	In order to close this issue, the Rules of Procedure are constantly being violated. It is not possible for the speaker to move away from the point of view - and this concerns everyone - in accordance with the explicit provision of the Rules of Procedure. I would ask the Parliamentary Representatives of all the parties to draw attention to the speakers. It is not right to interrupt the speaker. If an observation is made and the speaker does not comply, the Rules of Procedure say that the floor is removed. We don't want to do it, but it can't be done otherwise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u165	Does Parliamentary Representatives not have the right to comment beyond the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u166	I'm not talking to you, Mr. Buquoir. I'm generally talking. This job can't be done. Only the parties' leaders can leave the subject to speak on topical issues and, if not, parliamentary representatives in summary. These things can't be done. In any case, let the Rules of Procedure be read. The Member cannot do this, nor can the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u167	...(Not heard).
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u168	Read the Rules of Procedure, Mr. Polakis. I told you another time. Read the Rules of Procedure because you come here many times to impress. Mr Ragus, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. Now I cannot prevent it from starting with a point of view - I am not saying any observation to God or anything else - to the dear Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, who just completed his speech. The great advantage of the government in the parliamentary dialogue, contrary to the opposition's structural disadvantage, is that the government can and comes to parliamentary dialogue with data, because there are services, there are structures, monitoring the data, being informed, etc. The opposition has this structural disadvantage, it has a problem with evidence. When, dear Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, the opposition comes to this step with evidence and the parliamentary representative of the government majority does not respond with evidence, it does not break down this information with other elements, then better - I say - silence. Ladies and gentlemen, these weeks are two years since New Democracy's government took over from New Democracy and the formation of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. My personal opinion is that the days we're spending are landmark days, it's station days. And I say this in this sense: for two years, until recently, the New Democracy, namely the Government and the Prime Minister, did not get themselves out the past period, for many and various reasons. That's not happening anymore. In my opinion, we are going through a period of milestone - a period that we now have before us the true self of the New Democracy, the Government of Kyriak Mitsotakis. What are the main components of what one could adopt as a real self? The first basic component in my opinion - and I start it not hierarchically, I have just shaped my intervention - is the curiosity. Secondly, this true self of the New Democracy and the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is the class partition, namely that it is a government that works for the few and against the many. And third basic feature of this true self of the New Democracy, the Right in Greece, the Right of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is the lie. As far as sloppy is concerned, we don't have to go far. As long as we're talking about this bill. Mr Voridis, neither of us, nor our rapporteur, Mr Papaleou, nor any colleague from the Qualified Opposition, focused his criticism on a complaint of the press: 'Why did you not bring this bill earlier'. I would conclude that neither would we have the intention or the willingness to criticise you because you have not even preceded real life, because you are coming as government, so we are coming as a state as a whole, behind the developments that the reality itself, life itself, the movement of humanity itself and the problems it has. But, Mr Voridis, coming after such a long time, over time, with such a bill on such a matter, I think it does not allow and leaves you no excuse at all. It is not a bill for the Greek state, for the Greek Government, for an important and new issue, which is the question of teleworking. You have no excuse to come with such a bill, a gonatogram in fact, which begins and starts with the infamous definition that teleworking is remote work. Two themes are at the heart of a global academic, theoretical, but also real reflection, when one opens discussion, the 'teleworking' dossier, in general use and integration of information technology at work. The first major issue is the protection of personal data. Is it possible to come with a bill to the House on this major issue in relation to work and not to have a word and to refer this essential, major, fundamental issue to a presidential decree of the future? But that's what you had to do for the public dialogue, that's what you had to do for the parliamentary dialogue, you had to prepare and recommend a framework for the whole of what it means to protect personal data, from the time the teleworking process is beginning and institutionalised in the Greek public. And if you did - you were forced by the Scientific Service of the Parliament today, that is to say, that gave the public its labels - an addition, it is the one you mentioned just now, that is at the end of the process of ratification of the bill, a vote on the bill, which is that you will now provide the opinion of the Privacy Authority on these matters before the Presidential Decree is tabled for processing by the Council of State. The second big issue in the teleworking file, Mr Voridis, is really great, because it is certainly a difficult issue, but that is why there are governments, so that they can play their part in the difficult and when they have time and when you did not bring any MDGs here, that is, you did not bring any legislative act, because everything was done yesterday and something had to be legislated today. The government had more than a year to work on all these issues. So what is the second big and very difficult issue? It's with which rules the public will operate, as soon as telework comes in. What rules of transparency, impartiality and dignity in the operation of teleworking within the Greek State. You in this (do) work zero, zero work, no confrontation with the real problem, (do) general references, that the supervisor will decide. I do not know how much longer you will be in the Ministry of the Interior, or I do not know how much the Greek people will allow you to be government, but I want you to remember, Mr Vorides, that one of the major problems that the Greek public will encounter before him is precisely the great frictions that will arise within the public sector since the limits and limitations are set on how many people can operate and work with the teleworking system. On what criteria will each of you decide, anyone who is responsible for the fact that Mr Papaliou can be caught and not Mr Raguss? That's a major problem. It's a difficult matter. It is this, however, that you should have worked and come here and say we propose these ten rules, that each of the heads decide, in rule a, b, c, d, professional, service, administrative, management, social, and that we recommend that the parties all and the MPs of the Opposition come and say their own proposals. You're nothing. But if you don't say anything about the rules on the basis of which it will work in the public sector, within the hundreds of thousands of public workers, teleworking, if you don't say anything about personal data, then what do you say? That is what is justified - and it is not an easy criticism of counter-population - what we have said before and have been told by colleagues on a genome. And it is not worth coming to a government in 2021 on this new, difficult and important issue with such a bill. Secondly, a basic feature is the characteristic that we have many times, but you are no longer hiding your real self, which is the key element of your policy, which is class-based bias, that you are literally working for the few and you are not interested in many. The quintusia of the working bill, which will enter the House next week, is essentially and has already been documented. It is not only certified by the fact of today's strike and the mobilisations. And all the records made and public opinion surveys testify to that, Mr. Vorides. I believe you also know that the vast majority of Greeks and Greeks are placed completely negatively against the bill by Mr Hatzidakis. But it is also the other issue that has been raised these days with objective values. Is it possible in 2021, followed in 2020, a year with the greatest recession experienced by the Greek economy, to come the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and ruin the people's districts, the people's households, the small and medium-sized households, the people's regions, such as Piraeus? They raise the objective values - ladies and gentlemen, I do not know how many of you have had time to see it - in Perama and Keracini 40%, in Nice and in Korydalos from 20%. At the same time, of course, where in areas such as Ekali, Kifisia, Psychic, Philothei, in most cases, objective ones fall. Is it possible for you to go to Perama and Keracini and Drapetsona and to Nice and to Korydalos and Salamis and, in the midst of economic recession, say as a government that I raise the objective values from 15% to 40%? If this is not the definition of a hard class right-wing government, I beg your pardon very much, but then what is it? And here's what we're talking about. It is not an exchange of ideological and political beliefs. Here we say that the perpetrator should be asked to pay 40% more, to make his value worse and what that means. And it's not just HISPIA and so on. Until the allowances are influenced by the objective values, on the basis of which the resident makes a tax declaration of such a region. Thirdly and finally, Mr President, to finish. That's what I said at the beginning of the true self-government Mitsotakis, which is the lie. The public debate has begun, and the debate in the committee has begun. We as a party, as well as all the opposition, all the trade unions, society, have said before, and the majority of citizens have already put themselves in a negative position in the bill. You have heard, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, often your Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, defend the bill and many of you and television broadcasts. With some people I too have had the opportunity to discuss this. You have therefore heard Mr Hatzidakis say that it is not the eighth hour that wages are not being cut, that collective agreements are not being abolished, that the form of the individual contract is not being established as a dominant form, that is, no, no. And you've also heard Mr. Hatzidakis, when he's accused of abolishing the APR, the workplace controls, saying, "What do you say? The APRC? We update it and I do it," says Mr Hatzidakis, "and independent authority." Isn't that right? How many times has he said it? And in the non papers your party has shared, I am 100% sure that you will have seen it as one of the main arguments you must invoke. Is that true? It's true. Yes, sir. So what I'm saying is that lying characterizes the true self of this government, it's not true. So now let's go see who's telling the truth and who's lying, Mr. Voridis. In Article 110 - and they are relevant to you, which is why I mention this today and not next week, they are related to the issue more widely of the role that the Ministry of Interior has to play - Mr Hadjidakis introduces, you are recommended to vote on the independence of the APRC, the Labour Inspectorate, and he says that the Board of Directors of the APRC, its composition, its members will be decided by a five-member committee. Who will be this five-member committee? Independent. First, it says, by the president of the AACC. Okay? Okay. Secondly, the Secretary of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Okay? Let me say okay. Thirdly, the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs. Okay? Of course not okay, because the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Labour - we said to the service that he was right - is a political person. You know it and we know it very well. It is appointed not by your own government, but by all governments with party government criteria, with political criteria. So the third is civilian. Who's the fourth? The President of the Economic and Social Committee. I'll leave it last, because it's interesting. And the fifth, who is it? A member of teaching and research staff, a university, that is, designated by the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs. So he's a man in five, who along with the Secretary General of the Ministry of Labour is the Minister's political choice, personal, party, political choice. He'll take a university of his choice and put him in this five-member committee. Let's see now who the President of the Economic and Social Committee is, what role he plays if, with his presence, he pushes and turns this committee which decides on the composition and staffing of the new R & D framework, the so-called independent authority of Mr Hatzidakis, if he is the one who is going to move towards worthyness or to anxieties and partisanism, to the independence or dependency of the new R & D project by the government and the Minister. I will submit to the Proceedings titled - I will not dwell on this, just because my colleagues found it - 'Cooperative and Employing Coup d'état in the ESC', dated 28-1-2021. Who is the President of the Committee today, who will be the fifth judge of independence or dependence, manipulation or not? He's Mr. Yannis Padas, if I read his name well. Who is Mr Yiannis Padas, the fifth member of the committee to set up the independent AAR? candidate MEP of the New Democracy, Mr Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u170	Former President of ADED.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u171	Yes, former President of the ADEDY and candidate MEP of New Democracy are the President of the ESC. Hence the coup post. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So what composition does Mr Hatzidakis make to select the new leadership of the Independent Authority of the APRC? A hard triad of five, party and governmentally controlled, which will not only create an independent authority, but will perpetuate the great suffering of the Greek state, which is nothing more than partisanism. And if he hadn't said anything and she would shew the island, she would shew the island. But does the nerve have to go out on the canals? Isn't it a little embarrassed? - and torment the Greek people with the lie that he is making an independent authority with three out of five who he will control, why will they be party officials and members of the New Democracy? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Isn't Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis a little ashamed of his lies anymore? Kostis Hatzidakis, ladies and gentlemen, has so much to do with the truth as it has to do with the music of Manos Hatzidakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u172	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u173	Is this happening every time? It's not your fault. There is a Bureau, Mr Polakis. We know how to run.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u174	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u175	There's no personal now, Mr. Buquoir. As a parliamentary representative, would you like to comment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u176	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u177	Here, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u179	Does the Minister want to talk earlier?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u180	Where does the Rules of Procedure say that, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u181	Minister, you have the floor. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr. Buquoir, please. The Minister will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u182	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u183	What can I tell you now, Mr. Polakis? You're from irrelevance to irrelevance. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please, Mr. Bukoro, I give the Minister the floor. Are you going to have a dialogue now? You're always calm. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u184	I'm calm, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u185	With what he hears, I think he's quite calm. I understand him anyway. The first thing I want to point out is this, Mr President: this is what happens when, of course, someone does not want to talk about what we are talking about, but wants to talk about something else. And he wants to do personal attacks by Mr Raguss to the missing Minister, who is not here to answer him, which, in my opinion, is the definition of political cowardice and inadmissibility and the time when, as you can see, all this is discussed in a bill which is already being discussed in committees. But since you are putting me in this position - you are now putting me, Mr Ragosi, in the position of the Government representative, whom I do not have - I shall reply to the latter. I will not open the debate, as you can imagine, for the whole of the Ministry of Labour bill. I hope I'll be able to come and put myself in for the Ministry of Labour's bill when we have a proper conversation. So I will answer only the latter because you say about the lies and shame that Kostis Hadjidakis must bear. Yes, sir! Shall we put it in the context of the debate you opened? What is one of your basic arguments? All that comes, regardless of whether it is right or not, is dangerous to workers because they will be destroyed by bad employers. It's one of your arguments. They are therefore opening the ferry so that, regardless of whether these arrangements are considered right or not for workers, they will, however, be circumvented. So when one responds to you that "you know, however, then the debate moves and becomes a check-up, effective control over the implementation of the law and therefore competent auditing authorities" and therefore places the debate in the Labour Inspectorate, you say: "Yes, but a class-by-class government, such as yours, controls the Labour Inspectorate and does not let it do its job, because it protects employers against workers." I leave the insult for the job inspectors. I leave the insult to people who do this job in their service. So Hatzidakis comes here and says to you: "But I want to armed this principle with functional and administrative independence, the body, so that it leaves my suffocating political control." Watch out, that's what he's telling you. What do you answer to him? ‘A, it is hypocritical.’ Why is it hypocritical? Because he will be running this body with a five-member board, to which he will be the President of the AACC, who will vote and make known what he is voting for, is the Secretary-General, who will vote and make known what he is voting for, and who is - you say - and the President of the ESC, who is now Yiannis Padas and tomorrow I don't know who he is. When, in other words, was it someone who was, for example, before Giannis Paidas, who was known to be a PASOK official, was the ESC good? Now that Paedias has gone, is the ESC bad? And Paidas, yes, of course, is a member of the New Democracy, but at the same time he has been President of the ADED, is currently President of the Economic and Social Committee, and, because you are also making reduced petitions at the level of persons, why have you said something about party coups, have you not been informed that this case was judged in court and that Paidas' election in the ESC was ratified by a court decision? So what do you actually say? We're going to a body with much greater independence...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u186	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u187	Oh, you don't like it. You want him to stay with the Minister. Well, now decide what you want us to do. Tell us and where exactly is the lie Hatzidakis told you, who is not here to defend his legislation and himself.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u188	Mr Ragossi, you can only speak on the side that has not done well, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u189	It is a good thing that, with regard to the observance of the Rules of Procedure, you have gone to the Chair today. I wish you'd be in the next period like this. This is happening. Mr Vorides, you have seen how much 'an evil million' is coming. What do you now want to go and defend a political position of your government that says that it is setting up the SEA for the first time as an independent authority and is confirmed by this Step, without you having the slightest chance of denying it, that this is a huge lie? For what is being set up is the result of a five-member committee of three members within the five which Mr Hatzidakis himself defines and whoever Mr Hatzidakis has. So it is not an independent authority, Mr Vorides, and so Mr Hatzidakis says - but I am generally speaking - you say, Mr Vorides, lies to the Greek people. Because the only chance you wouldn't lie was to prove something else than what the draft law writes. But you can't, because three out of five are party-selected. So what will be produced by their decisions will not be an independent authority. It will be a party principle, given to the service of the employer, because there you are, as a government, given.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u190	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u191	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u192	Well, listen, Mr. Buquoir, let's get this straight. Parliamentary representatives can gather and note what Members say and answer as a whole. That's all about. It's not anyone who talks to answer. The case of Mr Ragosi is different because it gives clarification to what he has said. He shall request the floor in accordance with Article 68.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u193	This has nothing to do with the provision in the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u194	Exceptionally you have the floor for a minute, but don't do that. Parliamentary representatives have rights, but I told you, there is a limit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u195	Do not conflict with the Rules of Procedure. I think you know him better, but, in any case, if the party president has not spoken before, it is well known that the parliamentary representative has a right of secondaryity. I welcome Mr Ragosi's position as regards the draft law under discussion. There was really no criticism. I want to stand up to something with which he started his speech and built it up better there, "when the government has no evidence, not to speak, to remain silent." First of all, nothing is silenced in Parliament. They all have the right to speak and it is the democratically guaranteed right to parliamentary dialogue. The element, Mr President-in-Office, is that your Minister for Health has come here on the occasion of a bill which has nothing to do with the pandemic crisis and spoke about the pandemic crisis. You did the same, and you made the same mistake. Of course the Minister answered you in detail. You came here and did not have any criticism of the long-distance bill under discussion, and you referred to the working bill, which is currently being discussed in Parliament's committees and will be coming to plenary next week. You know, often half the truths are worse than lies, and it depends on what kind of evidence one claims. If the evidence is configured in our preference, it does not lead to a real result. This has also been the case with the chairman of the Social and Economic Committee. Is he a party executive? Is he appointed by the Minister? Will he always be the same? It's a representative, heresy. As a result, the 'three locked' you say does not apply in any case. So you prefer the APRC to be under the absolute control of the Minister, as Mr Vorides has said. So, starting from a wrong starting point, we come to wrong conclusions. To conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, I would say that it is not even the employment bill of privileged scope for SYRIZA and you will see it next week. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u196	Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Dermenzopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that we are discussing a very important bill and Mr Voridis does not say so, the Greek society says so. The workers say so, the local government bodies say so, and even SETE, as Mr Ragus said, is an excellent organisation, a social partner, an independent authority that produces tourism policy and cooperates with the SYRIZA government and cooperates with the government and cooperates with the governments next. Because he has captured with his actions politically important for the next day. So let us stick to the institutional framework proposed by the Ministry of the Interior, which is very important and which makes it very timely. Mr. Kotrias, an extremely experienced politician and exquisite self-government for years, recommended the bill and captured its very important elements. Mr Bukkokouros also, the Parliamentary spokesman, has often debated the debate with arguments to alleviate the impressions. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the impressions in Greek society are that digital transformation is now given, important and useful to public administration, especially for the citizen. If we realize this, then we will believe that this effort to reform the Interior Ministry, which comes into the digital transformation of citizens through the cooperation of public administration structures, is a priority for all of us. The possibilities offered by the use of new technologies improve the working conditions of public workers, but above all improve the quality of services. And from this point of view, Mr Voridis, let me congratulate you all on your partners, the Secretary-General, the Deputy Minister and the officials of the Ministry, because they dare to listen to society and give what the citizen needs today. The pandemic has necessarily brought some changes to local governance, over-local and central government. But most importantly, it brought the changes that the citizen needs closer together. Many public services have been forced for reasons of public health protection to serve and to serve citizens electronically and from a distance. These changes have a legal dimension. Teleworking - fortunately for most, unfortunately, for some people - is here to stay and stay for the next few years. In fact, by reading reports to the international press and reports of people experienced, who are transforming policies and tourism, it is noted that they consider telework to be a priority, since they can work abroad as well. You therefore understand that this aspect of our country is a priority, since they can from abroad, from Europe, from America, come, stay and work. It is therefore a reference to the global community that teleworking for the work itself is now a need. It will be an integral part of the administrative model of each public body. That is why it is necessary to create an institutional and regulatory framework for the implementation of teleworking in the public sector. I followed the debate with interest in the committees, but in particular the reports by the citizens who tabled the consultation. There is a criticism that I consider to be good at by political bodies and also by the social partners themselves. But it is worth standing at them. The reports are excellent for this effort. This is the purpose of the bill submitted by the Ministry of Interior, which is a charter for the model of working telework and for the rights of workers. As we speak of rights, the objections made by some refer more to a lasting dreadful syndrome against any change and reform than to informed opinions and perceptions. After all, there is an excess of riskyness, make news and try to build up any reformist effort. And they put them in parentheses, as they put the single voices from the opposition. Because most of the colleagues from all the wings have submitted here evidence that composes the lawmaker's thoughts. What needs to be made clear about the regulatory framework that governs and teleworking is that seven points substantiate the need and the importance of this draft law. Allow me, Mr President, to present them very briefly. First, teleworking is voluntary in a period of normality. It does not force anyone to enter the teleworking process, so it depends on the civil servants themselves if they choose this form of work. Of course, if there are exceptional circumstances, as we are now living, such as the ones we have experienced in the past, especially in the management of the pandemic, I do not believe that there is a relentless man who refuses the need for teleworking. On the other hand, one finds that he has the same right of any worker or member of the public administration to telework and the same obligations as those of the staff carrying out his duties in a natural presence in the service. Telework will take place within the hours of operation of the agency and of course the principle of equality and equality is unnegotiable. Thirdly, all civil servants and civil servants are included in the framework of labour law for an indefinite period or for an indefinite period, but also seconded teachers carrying out administrative work. The only exception is for teachers in other structures at the levels of education and training. Fourth point is that the service and the public body provides security. I stress that. It ensures at the maximum level the safety and protection of personal data, which is a great deal to do during teleworking. In addition, and I stress this, Mr President, it is responsible for the technical and operational part, since it must ensure that there is a safe remote access for workers to the information systems of the service or body. There will be a private virtual connection with encrypted and protected data route. At the same time, it provides the official or official of the public structure with appropriate equipment to work. Only two references, Mr President. Allow me a minute more. The use of recording systems shall not be allowed to check the performance of the worker during teleworking. That is how a response is given to the voices that say it will be supervised, there will be a parallel route in the employment relationship between an employer and a worker and all the relevant points we have heard in the previous period from a portion of the political world. It is also clear that, if there is access to this data, teleworking or stops or does not begin at all. Six, time limits for cooperation with a forty-four working days per calendar year are set. Finally, Mr President, in addition to not being more than 25% of all the officials in this department, it is important to say that the public workers who choose to join telework will be informed in writing in terms of the commitment of the agency or body to which they belong: the place, purpose, equipment, safety rules and the parameter of the evaluation. Is there today, Mr President, someone in Greek society who does not believe in the evaluation of the work, the effort? Only poorly qualified civil servants or few people - I have not met - do not want to pay tribute to those who are trying, working and working, but only those who are populist express their opposition to evaluation. What we must all realise is that it is time to move forward. That is why I call on all the Members of the Greek Parliament to ensure that we do not lose this opportunity for reform. I invite you to vote on the bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, too. Mr Christos Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy has the floor. Immediately after the speech Mrs Anastasia Gara will be given by SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will focus on today's draft law, since I will see you next week. With today, then, under a draft law, our Government continues its effort to modernise public administration. Her pandemic and excitement created or better was an opportunity and caused a necessity that had to be resolved for some time. To adapt, in other words, the Greek public to the current social, economic and technological data, which will serve the citizens better and more directly, which will provide better working conditions for the workers by strengthening their autonomy in the organisation of their work or even better by enabling them to balance their professional and social lives more fully, while saving resources in the public sector. So today we are creating the appropriate legislative framework for the effective implementation of teleworking in public services. It should first be noted that teleworking is of a voluntary nature both for the operator and for the teleworker. It is only compulsory at the request of the service itself. When does that happen? This is the case in the event of a risk to public health and exceptional conditions. Cases such as the one we experience with the coronary pandemic. Teleworkers and workers working in a physical presence have the same rights and obligations. In other words, equal treatment is provided for, since wages and working hours are not affected. Appropriate measures and details are also laid down to ensure their personal data, as are the respect for the privacy of teleworkers. From distance and for each quarter it may work up to 25% of the manager's or department's employees. Under certain circumstances, of course, this can also reach 50%. Teleworking is excluded from the period from 15 July to 31 August and is provided in specified days per week. It may not exceed forty-four per calendar year and must be within three months. It may also take place from any fixed space in Greece or in a country of the European Union. As far as equipment is concerned, it is provided by the service, which also covers maintenance and upgrading costs. So the procedure is very simple. The person concerned shall submit a request to the head of the address stating in particular the number of days and the period he wishes to work from a distance, as well as the address from which he wishes to do so. Then, and within 10 days, taking into account both the staff needs and the proper functioning of the service and the duties of the staff member concerned, the addressee of the request shall be called upon and shall be obliged to reply. Ladies and gentlemen, it makes sense for the first time anything that is presented or introduced to cause an insecurity. Even more when this enters our lives in adverse conditions, in a period such as that which we have experienced uncertainty, a period of health risks, with economic consequences, and especially in a country that has been late, others can say and refuse, in many areas to keep up with global events. So our country today has the eighteenth place in Europe on the regular teleworkers list. Obviously, there are many of these challenges and the difficulties that both the services and the workers will be called upon to face up to, even in how the culture of work from the home is inspired. It will certainly require the necessary training of employees, as will the maintenance of the team climate in the service. Attention should also be paid to matters of staff management or a proper work organisation. These are, of course, some of the challenges that everyone will have to face. The question is how we will now turn any uncertainty, whatever concern in an opportunity, an opportunity, an opportunity to quickly cover the distance that we have left all these years in order to create in relation to other countries, that is to say, the structural movements that have had to take place for many years. The possibility of working from home, that is, teleworking, is such a move. It may have come out of need, but how it will be delimited and how it evolves is something that depends on us. So I think it is our duty, and that is why I call on you all to do so by voting in favour of today's bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u200	Thank you too, Mr Dermenjopoulou, for keeping time. Mrs. Anastasia Gara has the floor. After Mrs. Gara, Mr. Vassilis Spanakis will be given the floor from the New Democracy. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, at a very difficult time for our society, at a time when there is insecurity at all levels, particularly in the health field, and we must not forget that, at a time when every precedent is being called into question, at a time when the New Democracy Government, instead of supporting our fellow citizens with forward-looking aid policies, has unfortunately uncovered a complete attack on all the workers and middle-classes of the country, with specific interests, such as the closure of schools and universities, with the new bankruptcy that leaves the first place unprotected, with new objective values and an automatic increase of at least twenty taxes, with the bill by Mr Hatzidakis, which abolishes Sunday holidays, frees redundancies, and provides ten hours of work and unpaid overtimes. Ladies and gentlemen, thousands of citizens today went down the street all over Greece. Young people, young people, workers, unemployed, unemployed have sent a strong message to everyone, a strong message mainly to the government. Listen to these people, listen to them and legislate about the real needs of the citizens, protect the work and do not break it up with your legislation. Protection of work, you know, is a fundamental stone and social cohesion and development. So, at the time when raw material prices, in key types of food in dozens of sectors of the economy, are increasing uncontrolled, when thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises are staying out of funding, with the planning and programmes that the government has done, trying to save what is being saved, while the Prime Minister himself calls the privatisation of the National Health System, at this juncture, while, unfortunately, a new Brain Drain has already started, at this juncture, the government therefore brings a bill to the vote on the framework for the operation of teleworking, but at the same time, a separate bill, as well as Mr Hatzidakis's anti-collective bill. The issue of teleworking is a very serious issue, as is the modernisation and operation of the public sector as a whole, which requires serious and comprehensive legislation. In other words, we would expect the government to fall over new data and work and digitisation, because telework will continue to employ us over the next few years, and there are aspects of this sector that actually have a positive footprint, but once again the government is approaching such a serious and complex issue. So, in our hands, we have a bill that looks more like a report of ideas, a bill, we would actually say without a plan. For example, I mention that critical issues, such as the protection of personal data, are referred in the future to presidential decrees or other regulatory provisions of the administration. Already, Minister, you have mentioned to us that, in order to implement, you will ask for the opinion of the Personal Data Protection Authority at any time. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the framework for teleworking, and we find that this draft law does not lay down uniform rules and criteria and conditions linked to the establishment plans of public bodies for their inclusion in the framework of teleworking, even if necessary. In other words, from the outset, you have different approaches between operators and therefore you are creating employees, workers, many different speeds. Furthermore, in Article 6, which concerns the protection of personal data, the wording in the bill leaves loopholes and does not protect workers and employees from malicious attacks by third parties. We are not particularly surprised by this curiosity in dealing with personal data, because as a government you already have a sinful past in this matter. I remind you of the recent effort of the Minister of Education to put cameras in the ranks of students, as if the lives of children and teachers were a video game that we can watch. I would also remind you of the scandalous contract with PALANTIR and the recent statements by Mr Hatzidakis, who did not hesitate to propose the introduction of geoenterprise systems. Fortunately, he didn't bring it to us for legalization. Another issue that needs to be clarified is the process of supplying the necessary technological means for teleworking to function. It is obvious that workers cannot use their personal equipment, if they have it. And it is certainly not safe for the public sector to use personal equipment and it cannot be blamed themselves on the purchase and maintenance of this equipment - computers, cameras, networks, programmes - and this must be clearly stated in the text of the bill. For the supply of suitable exclusive equipment, which will also have security systems from malicious attacks, contracts worth several million euros will be required. We hope that, ladies and gentlemen, we hope, Minister, that you will follow transparent procurement procedures and not direct awards to known friends and friends, by severing funds from the public budget, the state budget. At the same time, it is particularly important to point out that there is no clear framework of encouragement for workers belonging to vulnerable groups, such as disabled people or members of single parents, to participate in teleworking as well. In addition, Article 14 is problematic, which stipulates that the principal shall decide which worker or worker will be subject to a teleworking scheme without any specific conditions and criteria or even guidelines. It is certain and we are afraid - and this is why we have pointed out this - that the lack of criteria will lead to unequal treatment of employees, personal and perhaps customer behaviour - and we have often encountered it - and vengeance toward workers. Ladies and gentlemen, it must be understood that teleworking is a very useful, often necessary, but complementary tool for the public sector. It has not come to replace living work nor, of course, to lead to further deterioration of labour rights. That is why we are asking for certain conditions to be introduced, such as the maximum time-limit for teleworking. I would remind you that the ILO report, the International Labour Organisation, also states that remote workers are also treated as traditional workers. I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying that it is clear that an institutionally integrated framework for teleworking must be established, especially in these circumstances, which often required this form of work. However, under no circumstances will we allow you to allow teleworking to mince public services, to reduce staff, to affect workers' wages and rights, to more flexible working hours. Because we have no confidence in these issues. After all, Mr Mitsotakis was the Minister of Dismissal and Dismissal. We have legislation, ladies and gentlemen, on teleworking. However, soon we will be looking for quality work. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Mr Spanakis has the floor from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Dionissiou Kalamatianos from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u203	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have listened with great attention to previous speakers and, above all, to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, and I wonder: will the Qualified Opposition speak about this bill, or will it continue to throw the ball at the platform, risking, lying to Greek society and not taking a responsible position? Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, finally understand that we have been through a health crisis, we have been in the last few weeks of this crisis, with an uncertain result as to the length of time, but with a government ready, ready and ready to deal with the health crisis and much more with the economic crisis and the economic consequences of the health crisis. And we have a deserved opposition to risking, lying and not dealing with the substance of the bills brought by this government to the vote in the Greek Parliament. So, gentlemen of SYRIZA, will you today place yourself on this institutional framework that the Greek Government is putting in for the first time? Will you speak here and here about the amendments that the government brings to the renewal of the term of office and placement in services of fixed-term border guards? Will you talk here about the issues we are dealing with regarding the National School of Public Administration and Government and other matters relating to the Ministry of Interior and where the Minister, Mr Vorides, and the staff of the Ministry of Interior are bringing for the vote? Ladies and gentlemen, teleworking has been intensive in our lives during the pandemic period. For many years, however, technological developments have provided the opportunity in these cases, always, that the nature of work permits it. And the dialogue on the introduction of teleworking has been opened for a long time worldwide. Indeed, this public dialogue with pros and anti-teleworking in relation to the traditional form with a natural presence at the workplace is of great interest, taking into account many aspects and attitudes: social, psychological, economic, security, the environment and many others. Nowadays, and as we return gradually to normality, this paradox is also seen, as is reflected in publications by large companies worldwide. Employers and administration are having difficulty in persuading workers to return to their offices. In any case, evolution, change, adaptation to new data are always positive, and since teleworking has proved to be working, the appropriate institutional framework must also be in place. To mention here how teleworking and other flexible forms of work in the large companies were already being applied in the private sector, perhaps more intensively and organisedly. In the public sector a number of public health officials have provided work all this time from home and continue to work remotely. Irrespective of the circumstances - we cannot say for sure that the health crisis has been overcome - pandemic has demonstrated the importance of alternative and flexible forms of work and it is essential that they be incorporated into labour legislation in an equal manner. And that is what the Ministry of Interior is doing today, bringing a bill to create a uniform and modern institutional framework for the implementation of teleworking in the public sector, both in normal and in crisis situations, and with a basic pillar the principle of equal treatment. Teleworkers enjoy the same rights and have the same obligations as non-teleworking employees. There is respect for privacy, protection of personal data. Appropriate measures and all technical specifications, rules and all details for their safeguarding shall be laid down, its voluntary nature. Special care shall be taken in the case of a worker’s health risk, for workers with permanent or temporary health problems. Before presenting today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, there was no other relevant legislation regulating the organisation and implementation of teleworking in the public sector. In the private sector, the European Framework Agreement on Telework, signed by the European countries on 16 July 2002, was incorporated into the 2006-2007 National Cooperative Convention. In fact, although this agreement has never taken the form of a directive and the obligation to incorporate it into the legislation of the Member States, our country has not chosen to ignore it, but has incorporated it into its labour legislation. Reference to teleworking is being found for the first time in our National Law at Law 2639/1998, while a first autonomous arrangement for teleworking as a form of employment in the private sector also exists in Law 3846/2010. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, the need to regulate the operating framework for the public sector is now imperative. The state mechanism was suddenly found a year and a half ago in front of an unprecedented situation and had to be adapted quickly. The Government of New Democracy, the Ministers and the staff have responded immediately to the new data. With constant efforts, with tireless efforts, perhaps with some failures sometimes, but which were corrected, we successfully incorporated e-government into a very large part of the operation of the public sector. Officials and citizens embraced this new reality, and today is the first step, a firm step. There is a basis for this to come into a single institutional framework. There's probably need to be additions, improvements. That's what we'll see in the app. Because the government listens to us carefully and corrects wherever needed. Also in this bill, comments were adopted from the consultation and improvements were made, such as, for example, in the time of teleworking, which was initially smaller, increased and went to forty-four days after many comments made during the public consultation on the subject. In Article 11, the place of supply of telework was originally defined as the Greek territory, but the comments and the place of supply of telework may also be within the borders of the European Union. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance, today's bill is an important innovation for the public administration and it is certain that it will further contribute to the modernisation of the public sector, the service and upgrading of services to citizens. At the same time, the advantages for civil servants will be much. All this time of the health crisis, the country's civil servants have responded directly and effectively to the major changes. Today these urgent changes are officially incorporated into Greek legislation. That is why all Parliament's wings must vote in favour of this draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr Constantine Maravegias follows. This cycle will close as follows: After Mr. Maraveya, it is Mr. Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement and Mrs. Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA. We will then enter the circle of speakers with 'Webex'. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Spankee, don't worry, we'll talk about the bill. After all, our rapporteur in committee, and today he has analysed our position on this draft law. But today is a day when the workers are responding to the Minister of Labour, Mr Hatzidakis. In the past, the Minister has tried to convince workers that the provisions he brings are supposedly protective for them. The workers today, however, called on him to stop the levelling-up of their rights, stop the circumvention of the eighth hour, stop the introduction of the ten-hour work with individual contracts, stop unpaid and cheap overtime, stop the deterioration of protection against illegal and invalid complaints of the employment contract, invalid redundancies, stop the degradation of their collective action, stop the stumbling blocks in the declaration of strike, stop the circumvention and abolish the Sunday holiday for many sectors of workers. The workers today called on him to live with dignity and work with rights and with them react to these provisions as well as to small and medium-sized enterprises. We heard yesterday, during the parliamentary procedure of the committees, the position of small and medium-sized enterprises, which are opposed to these provisions, because they know, of course, that, if the wages and wages of workers are reduced, they are also being reduced. They are reacting, of course, to these provisions, and our young people and young people, who see that the government brings conditions far beyond, with exhausting hours and reduced wages. The unemployed are reacting because they see that the government chooses to light up the 'green light' to malicious employers to overexploit the existing staff. And the question is: why would the malicious employer hire another worker to meet his needs when he can "sweeten up" the workers he already has? And that, of course, leads to an increase in unemployment. But you must be aware that this brutal attack by the government on the world of work will not pass, it will not be possible to impose it. Even if you continue this lonely, destructive path and vote for this counter-reformation that has been going back on us, the workers, the small and medium-sized, the unemployed, our young and young people, the whole society will respond and with us will abolish this setback. We will not allow the fourth industrial revolution in Greece to be linked to the working conditions of the Roman gala. Together with the workers we will implement a model that will invest in man - worker. We will not allow you to turn the society back in times of dark, when the workers were prey to over-exploitation and social analgesia. The bill now. It is at least provocative that you come here today and say 'we bring provisions protecting teleworking' when your own MEPs voted against when the relevant resolution was adopted in the European Parliament, the right to disconnect. It is also challenging that you, as defenders of teleworking, should appear when for 15 months in the pandemic you did not bring a protective framework for teleworking, while the previous Minister, Mr Brutsis, said that the framework was ready to be implemented. You didn't bring it. On the contrary, you closed your eyes to employers who found the opportunity in the pandemic crisis to enforce the law of the mighty, to exploit the climate of fear and the uncertainties for tomorrow, with the redundancies to caradicate. And you allowed this, with your choice not to regulate the field and the lack of controls, of course. The bill is full of omissions and vagueness. The application of teleworking is left to the discretion of the government and the administration. The protection of workers' rights, the orderly functioning of public services and the service of citizens are not clearly guaranteed. You do not ensure that the working digital jungle is clearly and clearly prevented. What must be imposed is to explicitly guarantee the rights to disconnection, working hours, all the rights provided for by labour law and applicable to workers with a physical presence, as well as the protection of personal data and the privacy of workers. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] Teleworking must be included in the framework of collective bargaining and collective agreements. In fact, teleworking could contribute to regional development, be linked with incentives and strengthen the development of borders, islands, mountainous, isolated and sparsely populated areas. It can be facilitated to stay or to set up public workers who can work either from home or from teleworking stations in these areas. So what is needed is the armouring of teleworking with a defined and protective framework. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will close my speech, Minister, with the changes that you enter into the contest for the National School of Public Administration. You are doing this with an amendment. It is unacceptable that these changes should apply to the forthcoming competition. The rule of law, good administration and legal certainty require that it be applied at least in the subsequent competition. Candidates prepared in this way cannot be surprised by changing the content and way in which the examinations are carried out. So you're playing with the anguish of the candidates, you choose to legislate in secret. There was no consultation on this provision. You're choosing to succumb to the parliamentary procedure. In conclusion, I would point out that teleworking can be a useful complementary tool. Especially for civil servants with chronic illnesses or people with disabilities may be a cumulative solution. Under no circumstances can it, however, replace living work and under no circumstances be used to reduce working rights, reduce the workforce in services, reduce wages, increase workload and optimise working hours. Public and private workers are being informed, reacted and will not allow any setbacks and the reduction of their working rights, which they won with so many struggles. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u206	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Constantine Maraveya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by apologising, because I will do something that I am not used to. However, because Mr Paulakis has already asked for answers from doctors and, unfortunately, in addition to my second capacity, that of the doctor, I have the honour of being also the rapporteur in the working bill on behalf of the New Democracy, I think I must devote a few seconds to giving some answers myself. Mr. Paulakis spoke of monoclonal antibodies. Well, monoclonal antibodies are not licensed in the European Medicines Agency and are in a situation called 'rolling review', on a rolling visa and therefore they cannot yet be officially used in this body. This is very easy to see on Coreper's official website. Secondly, of course not all patients are taken to the ICU before they end up in death. Sadly or happily. Some end up in the hospital. And if he was asking that question, someone who's not a doctor, I could even understand it. But to ask someone who's a doctor, well said, I guess Mr. Paulakis just forgot about the medicine he knew. All right, it's also a strong concern with politics! And if, on days of SYRIZA, you had all these beds that were telling us in intensive care units, and we're just playing with the numbers, because in simple flu outbursts there was a wait list of about a hundred people waiting for them and then these beds were not to be charged to save human lives and not to wait for patients to go into intensive care units? This is about medical and Mr. Polakis. And now I come to Mr Ragosi, because he also said half the truths, that is, whole lies. How long will the Board's term last? the forthcoming independent authority? It will last five years, that is more than a government's constitutional term. And where will this principle be accounted for for? Like any independent authority, he will be accountable to the House. So they didn't read well. Half-truth, whole lie! And now I come to the bill, because this legislative initiative you bring here today, Minister, is of two importance. On the one hand, it has its technological role, which regulates the way the public administration operates, but on the other, it is psychologically important for opposition, Minister. That's why you see them now cursing about other things. For all the previous time, their soul went to Koulouri, when they saw the Interior Ministry bring together a number of provisions, which colleagues of the counter-population described as election, the vote of the relatives, the electoral system in local government and the restrictions on the electoral rights of convicted criminals. Of course, you could ask yourself: why should all this give rise to consideration in opposition? For example, we heard the Communist Party of Greece say yes to everything, even in the last piece of legislation, what was involved in the Golden Dawn. We heard SYRIZA, who was negative at first. A common denominator was obviously their fear of elections. So you were worried about them, Minister, because they did not see the obvious, that it is the duty of the Ministry of Interior to refer to the organisation of the legislative framework governing the electoral systems in the country. And in exercising this responsibility the Ministry has brought the two relevant bills and one amendment to the House recently. And that was neither with a secret agenda nor with the aim of some conspiracy, as some people want to see things around them. But ultimately no one escapes the saying "what you're afraid of, that's what you see all the time in front of you." So, logically, today's legislative initiative must be welcomed by the opposition and rather relieved, because colleagues have reacted a little obscurely to any stimulus, apparently fearing that they will have to listen a couple of years earlier what the Greek people think about these parties. Well, today I think that, indirectly but clearly, you have reassured them. Besides, the Prime Minister said a few days ago that we will have elections in a couple of years. So you'll still have a couple of years to find things to get you politically and not to be exhausted in cheap opposition, such as the ones about anti-territorial arrangements you've been invoking these days, both to SYRIZA and the JRC. Minister, this draft law on teleworking in the public sector should normally also be a point of political party meeting. In committee, however, only the Change Movement voted explicitly. The rest of the parties have been kept unexplained, and the JRC has said that it will reasonably vote against from acquired speed. What could be the reasons for the reservation in this bill? What are the strange or incomprehensible points or second thoughts from the Left? So let's see what the Ministry of Interior proposes. It proposes a modern institutional framework for the implementation of teleworking in public services, both in normal and crisis situations, as happened during the pandemic period, to adapt the Greek public to current social - and not just - data. It also proposes uniform for all actors how to organise and manage work on the basis of common principles, methods of organisation, rules for the protection of personal data and confidentiality. In addition, it proposes decoupling the remoter from digital communication and work tools, which must take place at the end of time. The basic principles governing teleworking are its voluntary nature, the principle of equal treatment for teleworkers with non-teleworking employees, the principle of the protection of personal data, and respect for privacy. Teleworking also takes into account the health situation of the worker. In the event of a staff member’s health risk, as well as in cases of permanent or temporary health problems, where such tasks are carried out through a teleworking operation, the institution shall accept the proposal of the staff member, unless there is a special and important reason for its rejection, which the institution shall justify in writing. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Why, though, are these important? What do we achieve? We are achieving a balance between working and social life, due to saving time to move and flexible working time regulation. We're making savings. We are achieving an evaluation of the performance of staff, geared to the results of work. We are successful in promoting the digital transformation of the public sector and, of course, we are actually creating incentives for employees and for better work organisation, but also for new skills. In short, we only have a positive attitude to wait for teleworking. After all, this was confirmed by the experience we gained in the sixteen months of the pandemic, that is, when the public sector was forced to run faster, with the first and better education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Colleague, you'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u209	Mr President, I would like for a minute your tolerance. I am, of course, obliged to remind SYRIZA colleagues that they have also won the failure of tele-instrumentation at the time, which is at risk of turning it into a 'Big Brother' show. Fortunately, once again, the Cassandras have been disguised and today the country can be proud that it has acquired a great digital infrastructure that allows the public to offer hundreds of thousands of children television services and, more generally, the citizens of quality services. Therefore, the fact that parties do not support this bill should be sought not in reasonable, but in purely psychological causes. I shall conclude, Mr President, by adding a few words about individual provisions and ministerial amendments. I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Kerameos, on the introduction of the institution of skills workshops from primary education. It is not just an innovation that complements the timeline, but it itself recommends a teaching object, a self-evident object, useful to students who see the school coming closer to their everyday lives. Equally important is the setting up of seven hundred and twenty new educational posts in primary education and the broadening of the teaching of English in kindergarten. I hope, of course, that we do not hear these theories about the American finger again, as some of the SYRIZA's colleagues had unfortunately advocated when the measure came for the first time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Comrade, please! You've already reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u211	You're right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u212	I know I'm right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u213	And I'm closing up with the Ottas. The two-year extension given to school-bed leases, a basic demand for employees, which they have carried to us personally, is essential to balance these people's losses from the two school years that were already bogged down. But perhaps the most important measure for societies is the provision of free feeding and accommodation to permanent staff in the Otta-Islands and Islands. This is an essential measure, especially for Magnesia, which I represent. We expect, Minister, its rapid implementation, which will have a direct and positive impact on both the mountain municipalities of the county and on our islands, the Northern Sporades, which are waiting, especially now in the summer with the increased needs due to the tourist movement, which we hope to see quite increased. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to be in time, because then things and debates begin, because we let a colleague speak a little more. You have to make your choice. You answer to any colleague you want, and you reduce time from the rest. What can we do? That's life. Mr. Ahmet Ilhan has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill today which we say that, in order to be effective and fair, there must be some axes which our rapporteur has analysed. We put seven axes in. Other colleagues have developed them. So I'm not going to get into these axes, which need to be there, to be effective. From the outset, we, as a Change Movement, voted positively on the bill principle and we have been holding a strong and constructive opposition in order to help where things are right. But, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to turn to an amendment from the Ministry of Education, which concerns - and we are amazed - the provision of Muslim burial services, please. It is Article 7, which makes an originality and says that a bakufian institution - that is to say, a management committee, which is an institution of charity, religion, which provides only religious services - will evolve into a commercial business and will be made by Article 7 a funeral office. What does Article 7 say? He says that this bakufan committee could buy a car, a mortar, become a funeral office. In fact, there is also the Greek state and the Ministry, which will make a joint ministerial decision, setting the highest price at which Muslims can be buried and buried in cemeteries. Mercy! This state interference in what, Minister? In fact, there are also issues of unfair competition. funeral agencies aren't there in Thrace? There are no funeral offices in Greece? These funeral offices, the burial of Muslims, whether they are in Athens or immigrants, do not make it to this day? What is the purpose of politics, so that a varnishe, this noble, religious institution, may become an entrepreneur? Our minds don't fit. I'm sure there's some kind of political expediency. We would like the Minister for Education to answer what is behind this. On this occasion, because we are talking about this amendment, and we are seeing an intervention, which we shall vote against as a Change Movement, to know, in particular, Article 7 entirely, because of the intervention, I would like to refer to the famous Vacuum Act, which was passed in 2007 on to the Government of New Democracy. Then I happen to be a congressman. It has been thirteen years and still to be implemented and free elections to the management committees of the bakufs are to be held. Why, ladies and gentlemen? What is the reason why a law does not apply? In fact, I would like to remind you again, to see the state interference in religion, again on your own government, rightly then, in 2007, with Law 3554, five million debts of Bavarian property to the Greek state had been extinguished. In other words, five million euros had been accumulated, which I can say, by a brave act then, by Mr Haloskoufi, with Article 7, was given the opportunity to delete all debts. But what happened? Although the law in Article 7 provided that, together with the principal debt, fines and possible penalties would be deleted, i.e. the government would come and hold a fine, which, in these thirteen years, accumulated, today the debt of the bakufs is EUR 3.5 million. Your appointed management committees have sent you replies and have asked you to bring legislation, to implement the law and Article 7 of 2007 and to delete the debts, because it is a religious institution. You come today and you're trying to make it a ceremonial office, violating every principle of unfair competition, mixing it into a case that does not involve bakouflage. Tell me anyway: is there any public body in Greece today carrying out ceremonial office tasks? Is there, today, a public institution or an institution, anyway, which is also a ceremonial office? Clearly here you're trying to create a situation that I don't know where it's targeting the end. For this reason, Minister, on the occasion of this amendment, I appeal for one last, because I wish to close here. There are a number of issues discussed in the intergroup. These institutions are also the ones for the varnishes we are discussing. I call on the Stepma once again to resolve the implementation of this law, always in dialogue with the minority itself, as expressed by their associations, by the Association of Minority scientists, by the Management Committee itself, by all. We must give a legitimate solution, remove these debts and let the ceremonies make them by the ceremonies in Komotini or everywhere in Greece, as they must be done and make them very right. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I continue to hear from the government MPs that the bill that will come next week to vote, Mr Hatzidakis, has charitable provisions. The answer to that was given today by the workers themselves who, by the thousands, participated in the totalitarian strike against the anti-terror bill. I now think that anyone who continues to support what Mr Hatzidakis says could be more than reasonable. The reality is that the bill abolishes the eighth hour, since the only person who can make a proposal to raise the eighth in ten hours will be the employer and, if the employer does not want it, even the employee will not want it to be accepted. The reality is, the bill releases redundancies completely. Basically, it legitimizes voluntary outlets. When the company invokes economic reasons and dismisses the workers, even the courts can justify the workers, it will not be possible for the worker to return to work. Successful exit for all operations. It also reduces redundancies, with the possibility that it enables the employer to lay off with a warning on his employee without having him at work. I'm going to give you an example, and I'm going to close up with the working bill. A worker who has sixteen years of service is entitled to twelve redundancy pay. For reasonable reasons today, employers do not fire with warning. One, two, three percent of the redundancies are made with warning. From now on all redundancies will be done with warning. The worker who will now receive 12 wages, after the vote of the bill, the employer will fire him with warning, will not have him in his work in the time of the warning and will get six wages and four months of notice will take them and therefore in a total of ten wages and will be also wages, so they will be taxed. It reduces, in other words, indirectly and in secret, under the table, redundancy compensation and much more, which I will see next week. Minister, the prerequisite for intra-administrative independence of the independent authorities, which, since their establishment, has not been controlled by each Minister nor by the legality of their actions - I am referring to the debate that you had before with Mr Ragosi - is a joke in the day of the final state. What does not suit you to do with the independent authorities is to change it by law, as you have recently done with the President's choice to the principle of dirty money laundering, which, while being chosen by the Supreme Judicial Council, you gave the right to two ministers to choose even a retired judge for his post. Or do you buttons, as Mr Adonis Georgiadis has done recently in the midst of a pandemic with George Katapodis, President of the Single Independent Authority for Public Contracts. I could say a lot of examples, which relate to almost all the independent authorities that are currently in existence, but unfortunately time is not enough. So let it not be argued that you will make an independent authority in the APRC. You have been analysed before by Mr Ragus that it will only be independent, since the choice of this principle will be purely party. I believe, of course, that you are making this change out of hand and that, with one forum, you will have two birds, that is to say, it is an independent authority - and it will not be - and the Ministry of Labour is removed from all responsibility and from all responsibility. Now the Ministry of Labour will only talk to BSE. The workers will have no reason to appeal to the Ministry of Labour. The conciliation procedures you take them to the OMD and complaints of employees take them to an independent authority, which will continue to be called an APR. So who will come to the Ministry, what workers and what reasons? Nobody. This is, of course, the last two years in the Ministry on your own governance. Ms. Hrainakis unauthorisedly states to engage in and give a solution to any case of work. It clearly states that the Ministry has no arsenal. It states that it cannot control the APRC, which is not yet an independent authority. He said the same thing yesterday to the Kavala Fertilizers he met with. "I can't do anything," he said. 'My Ministry has no competence.' It has no competence to deal with employers who are dissatisfied to the detriment of workers. It does not have the power to impose fines, for example for a transfer of an undertaking. Listen up. That's what you want to do with the bill, what you've been doing in practice in the last two years, that you've humiliated the Ministry of Labour, that you've humiliated the institution of the APRC, that's what you're doing and we're going to see. From now on, any worker who goes to the Ministry should know that the Ministry of Labour has now become a "minister of Employers". As far as the public is concerned, the New Democracy has a peculiar relationship with the State. He treats it as a loot. We have a record of decades in posters, based on official figures of March 2021. The posters have reached the three thousand ninety-six and at the same time their earnings have increased by 70%, in a disparity with the qualifications they need. Even the ministers' directors can now be just high school graduates. Another large sample of the relationship you have with the public is that contractors have increased sharply in relation to permanent employees. Fifty percent increase in contractors. Why? Because you want to have your own children, the blue children. You find reasons for pretext to put them in the public service outside the ADP. But of course you did, Mr. Voridis, in the past. "And who do you want to appoint? Foreigners?’. You have made this clear to us. They've all heard of it. Fortune for you is the public, so do not try to convince us that with the report of ideas you have brought to the vote today you will show us that you are interested in civil servants. All of you are transposing them into future presidential decrees or other regulatory acts, and of course you will create much more problems with this bill than you will solve. To close, at the moment Mr. Hatzidakis is in a meeting with the Kavala Fertilizers workers at the Ministry. I'm sure he agreed to see them after twenty-four hours and while they stayed in scenes outside the Ministry to avoid further escalation of their mobilizations. I wish I could be disproved. I'll be the first to thank him. So give a solution to the Laurentiadis scandal. Give a solution, because even if you are not interested in the workers - who are not interested - you should be interested in the interest of the Greek State. Mr Laurentiadis has companies that have to deposit a balance sheet - the simplest - since 2014. They have created hundreds of millions of euros and continue to create them. Give us a solution. Don't keep becoming partners and accomplices in this scandal. I'll be here to bring this scandal. This scandal is the scandal described in 2018 by Mr. Georgiadis, Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Dendias and Mr. Mitsotakis from this position that I am now in. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much. We are now continuing with the circle of speakers from 'Webex'. Mr Karaoglu has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. I think that today the bill we are discussing is the bill on teleworking in the public sector. The previous speaker, of course, referred to the working bill, which will come next week in plenary. Nevertheless, I will be tempted to make a comment a few seconds, saying that a few thousand people may today strike and protest, but at the same time millions of workers were normally employed. Of course, the protesters were a very small percentage of both workers and society as a whole. But that's what I'll see you next week. So I come to the bill we are discussing today, the teleworking bill. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the pandemic has shaped a radically different landscape on the globe. The conditions forced the working world to reorganise and adapt to the new data, since disconnecting the workplace from the place of residence is now a reality. Since the break-up of the health crisis, the New Democracy Government has responded quickly to the call for responsibility. He judged in time the new environment of increased demands created by the new digital world that was born and the small miracles, as they all confess, which were made home in the critical area of the new era, are indeed a global benchmark. Our country, Greece, has become an equal member of the twenty-seven members of the European Union, because, yes, our country's digital transformation took place from one moment to the other as a matter of priority, but the important leaps that we made were made quickly, but not hastily, and were designed and not randomly. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, there is much to be achieved, but the truth is that our country is entering with demands in the era of the fourth industrial revolution. In this context, teleworking is one of the prerequisites, in order to use a pedigree term, to relaunch the economy and society, making a significant contribution to improving relations between a citizen and a state. Reading the Handbook of the new digital age, one realizes that teleworking is a need for times. It responds to today's work reality, while being an alternative that has proved worth exploring and adopting. In particular, in the public sector it is a new model of work, which does not affect employees' wages or affect their development. So it's worth dare. We are taking a step forward, creating in Greece the first integrated institutional framework for modernising the functioning of the public sector, so that it can re-enter the current currents of the public administration. At the end of the road, the objective is common: to remove bureaucracy and better service citizens. The new era, ladies and gentlemen, which defines social and technological developments, is the starting point for overcoming the stiff and many times problematic model of the structure and functioning of public administration. As for the suspects - obviously there are suspicious persons nowadays, especially in the area we are serving - there are clear safety differences, which make it clear that there are no two-speed workers being created. First of all, teleworking is voluntary. Secondly, it will not exceed forty-four working days a year, required within three months. Thirdly, the provision of teleworking from 15 July to 31 August each year is excluded. Fourthly, the provisions in question provide that the maximum amount of staff per address of the institution liable to be employed by means of teleworking may not exceed 25% of its total staff. Fifthly, it is understood that teleworkers enjoy the same rights, but at the same time have the same obligations as employees carrying out their duties in a natural presence. Another point that I deserve to stand in is the provision in the bill concerning the upgrading of the National Centre for Public Administration and Administration, in other words, in the direction of training the human resources of the public. This means that all the guarantees will be provided to civil servants to meet the challenges of the time, but also to adapt to the new conditions that are being created. A new modern public sector, which will strengthen and develop the skills of its human resources, is sure to inspire the worthy of employees who serve and give them a better boost to a new administrative culture. As far as the debate on the protection of the personal data of workers and of the citizens managed by the civil servant from his home is concerned, the Government is moving towards the creation of a mechanism to supervise the whole process. So, ladies and gentlemen, there is absolutely no cause for concern. There must also be no cause for concern about the right of disconnection, since it goes without saying that the worker will stop working without any other obligation. This applies to both the public and private sectors. Now let's go see what we're doing with teleworking. We all agree that the Greek public is becoming more flexible, since digital transformation is being promoted. But the essential thing is that there is a balance between working and social life, due to the considerable savings in time for moving from home to work and vice versa. It also opens the way to attracting young and worthwhile managers, as well as making a better assessment of the performance of each worker, which will be judged by the results delivered. It is worth pointing out that there is also a need to save resources by reducing operating costs for services and for workers by reducing travel. Keep something more remarkable. With telework productivity increases. Research and studies conclude that teleworkers increase their efficiency from 10% to 40%, because they work uncooked, avoid long-term movements, are more focused because they feel more comfortable at home, and this benefit is reflected in their creativity. Ladies and gentlemen, teleworking is one of the changes that have come to stay. So let us take the opportunity to build a functional, innovative, useful public. We deserve it. Perhaps, especially today, where technology is a critical catalyst for the development of every modern society, we must follow the current of the era, modernise and transform the pandemic crisis into an opportunity. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, finally enters the path of the digital age. Greece is becoming a digital country. It's moving now at 5G speeds. It's on the move and it gets results. In 2020 we made a great leap, bringing seven positions to the global map of digital competitiveness. This year we can do better, and we'll go better, because the digital bet shouldn't be lost. As a nation we must fight to win it. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group offers all its powers to the national effort and it is understood that the bill of the Ministry of Interior on teleworking in the public sector is in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u220	Thank you for keeping time. We continue with Mr. Ioannis Burns from SYRIZA. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. The COVID pandemic - 19 caused a great increase in teleworking in our country. It's a work practice that's here to stay. It has been applied as a matter of urgency, but we do not have to see it either as a necessary evil or as a fashion or as a temporary one. In many developed countries there was quite a common form of work. It has made it much easier with new technologies over the past decades. The 'ZOM' and 'SKYPE' have been in existence for several years now. Teleworking can really help workers with difficulty moving, who may need to take care of their own people at home, while there are more and more households that their members work in different geographical areas, even countries. For people living in areas with few employment opportunities, it can prevent their immigration. It points out here the possible use of this possibility for public workers who live or are not allowed to reside in geographically isolated or inaccessible areas and the border, as here, in the Lesvos Prefecture. We therefore want to regulate teleworking, not turn the clock back. As long as it is treated as work, with working hours and rights and not as a kind of loose or problematic job, which the employer must deal with with with with suspicion. This also applies to the public. This suspicion, for example, is seen in the working time limits imposed by the bill forty-four days per year. We underestimate teleworking by treating it as a deficit, which must be limited. In the same logic of suspicion you did not provide a clear framework for encouraging teleworking for disabled or chronic diseases and obviously with single parent families. A serious question arises with the protection of personal data. There is a technical possibility for recording and monitoring workers and obviously for malicious monitoring by third parties, so the forecasts of the teleconferences bill had to be more specific, especially when the teleworking station is in practice merely the staff computer. For the definition of teleworking sites, an explicit reference and registration of responsibilities is necessary, so an update of the job profiles for which the teleworking system can be applied. More importantly, however, you leave the decision on teleworking at the absolute discretion of the supervisor. And because we know what customer arbitrariness practices New Democracy is cultivating in public, we are all aware of what situations it can lead to such a possibility. We must prevent teleworking from becoming another area of arbitrary, gaming and pluralism between employees. Nor do we want telework to apply unevenly to the public, depending on the mood, the adequacy of the heads to do their work from a distance. In the same logic, there is no provision for how exactly the head of staff can lead remotely or how teleworked civil servants are evaluated. We have more than a year of public teleworking, but we do not have a serious assessment of what this teleworking has done and what problems it has experienced. Because the opinion of the citizens was not at all good for the quality of service at this time. Not to mention the recent mandate from the FMC Commander to raise the phones and answer the citizens. You can understand, in other words, what the public's service has come up with for self-evident reasons. In practice, in so poorly digitised Greek public, teleworking means simply employees loaded each one with bags of files and transporting them to their homes. We are particularly concerned about the technical framework for teleworking. Your past, with the award party throughout the pandemic and the favoured companies, predestinates us for the worst. The awards must be made in full transparency and accountability. In any case, teleworking is useful for the public sector and for employees. This should not be the case in order to safeguard the working regime in the public or model for the same maintenance in the private sector. Lifelong work, the contact and communication of employees in workplaces is valuable, it is human capital. Collectiveness protects against arbitraryness. It is useful to remember this in a day like today, namely a day of general strike, in order to prevent another Memorandum of Understanding without a Memorandum. It is precisely because the collective bargaining is being undermined and the individual relationship between a worker and an employer is the one which is being premiumd. In fact, teleworking can become an ideal model for you and your like-minded ones. What better than isolated workers in their area, without horizontal communication between them, but only with an employer head and auditor of their work. You would very much like to match this working model with the personalization of labour relations and the licensing of collective bargaining. Yesterday's unprecedented general strike ban on the strike of maritime unions promotes what we will see with Mr. Hatzidakis' bill when a federation cannot offer its cover for first-class strikes. Of course strikes, demonstrations, gatherings are not because they are allowed. Social struggles do not depend on governments' attitudes or on the framework they legislate according to their ideas. And your ideals, which do not find the slightest support in any space and trade unionism, are not strong enough to defeat an entire society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u222	Thank you very much Mr Burnus. Mr Philipos Loading from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike is guaranteed constitutionally and fully respected. But the same respect, of course, must also be the right of citizens not to be held hostage to trade union arbitrariness. So the few, unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, are afflicting the many. Unfortunately, once again, we are in the same spectators' work. And I would like to explain that, unfortunately, no one or almost any factory or company or almost no worker's business or private sector workers has been failing and is not coming down to protest for too many years. And I think we all know that very well. So what a hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen! Every time it's there, in the same ritual, in the square outside the House lined up all those who burn, I'd say, their friends. The so-called working class party is always there first and best without order. Then it's the so-called left party, without her working soul, though. And finally, it's also a confederation of the workers without her workers. So it is enough that the trade union leaders are arbitrary, ladies and gentlemen. That's enough! That's enough! Let's go to this bill we're talking about. The concept of teleworking, which we have known in the midst of the pandemic, actually continues and institutionalizes. We are therefore creating a modern institutional framework for its implementation in the public sector, with a view, of course, to better adapting all of us to the new economic and technological challenges. The Government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis has demonstrated many times since the beginning of its term of office that she wants to strengthen and modernise the structures of the country, whether in investment or in the field of development and work. So, on this road, this bill also moves. What's this bill doing? It sets the basic principles of teleworking, its organization and its management. Of course it protects workers' personal data. It also lays down its voluntary nature. Furthermore, this draft law encourages officials to organise their work resulting from teleworking, while at the same time strengthening the management right. In addition to all these provisions, however, the Ministry of Interior, with this draft law, also introduces a number of more general provisions concerning both public sector human resources and OTAs. I would like to dwell here on one of these provisions, in particular Article 26. With this provision, ladies and gentlemen, there is actually an attempt to manoeuvre the TATs of the island regions and also of the island regions, as workers are encouraged by the provision of free feeding and accommodation from the relevant municipalities, since there is, of course, the economic potential. As I come from the island area, I must, but also consider myself, to support the island regions, to promote their development, but also to remind everyone of their specificity and the difficulties they face because of the islands. So I would not be able to welcome this initiative of the Ministry's leadership. This provision solves the issue of subscribing the services concerned, but at the same time upgrades them, which facilitates the everyday life of both residents and their visitors. Finally, I would like to dwell on two important ministerial amendments. The number 919 specializes in the procedure for the disposal of surplus vaccine stocks in third countries and, of course, for the amendment under number 922. Article 5 of that amendment refers to the ‘ITIS REGISTER’ programme, which will contribute to the development of infrastructure projects in the country as well as in the island regions. Therefore, this article seeks to strengthen the effectiveness of this programme and to improve its implementation through subordinate the projects which fall within the development objectives of the Deposit and Loan Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, the role played by this fund regulation is very important if we take into account the development objectives pursued by this programme and of course also the challenges it has to meet. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are ensuring with this bill too many important and important things. The pandemic and the social and economic consequences showed the importance of digitisation in all areas of society and the economy and made the need to speed up the digital transition more prosperous than ever. The Government of the New Democracy and the Kyriakos Mitsotakis, loyal to its vision, is following the challenges of the future, always in cooperation with the other countries of Europe. With innovative reforms aimed at modernising public administration, improving infrastructure and, of course, at the same time, working properly with the use of computer and technology. With our focus on the proper cooperation of the officials, the safety of their work and the faster service of the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u224	Thank you. Mr Alexandros Aylonite has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, teleworking - I have heard it from almost all of us - is a new chapter on employment, which will employ us in the coming years, will employ the state, the workers, the employers, the experts, in general everyone. Teleworking should be an exception rather than the rule, while it should be regarded as voluntary for the teleworker. And this to prevent any unfavourable change of work as to what business elites want. Do you know what I'm afraid of, ladies and gentlemen? That the most positive tool in the world, used with effective benefits to society, in your hands - and you have proved it - can become a dangerous instrument, because you promote, I would say, with antisocial courage, neoliberalism and even in its most extreme version. It seems to me that your concern about the effectiveness of teleworking in practice is not serious. It seems to me - and forgive me for that - that it is more realistic to claim that this is a hole in the water. I'm explaining. What does the government say? It regulates teleworking by establishing the right to disconnect and means disconnecting from the computer. Good. In other words, the worker's right not to respond to calls and messages other than agreed hours. You protect this way, you say, his family and personal life. But let us see what the truth is and why you are not telling the truth. The New Democracy Members remind you - I think our rapporteur, George Papaliou - has said that in the European Parliament they have voted against the right to disconnect them immediately. Honestly, isn't it challenging to say that when after fourteen months of pandemic and arbitrary, haven't you brought any elementary arrangements to the House for teleworking? You brought them today. SYRIZA has been calling it the institutions for about a year. Let me remind you how many times our staff have mentioned, firstly, the obligation to register electronically in the "ERGAN" of working time, so that the job can be paid and not stolen by the employers. Secondly, the right to disconnection, with the particular mention that there is no obligation on the worker to reply to corporate mail within working time. Thirdly, I would remind you of the introduction of a work allowance to cover costs such as current, internet and the use of cameras only if it is justified for the needs of work. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are you sure that this bill ensures the protection of workers' rights and the exploitation of teleworking in development? I wish I was wrong. I would remind you that teleworking applies both to the public sector and to the private sector because of the exceptional pandemic. Clearly there are disadvantages and advantages, such as, for example, limiting movements and the environmental footprint it leaves, creating opportunities for the population living in the province, strengthening employment for disabled people and facilitating them. Teleworking will leave its print. Let's say it clearly. That is why its regulation must be subject to a serious debate and a responsible piece of legislation. It affects and will affect Greek families. I say this because, together with the digitalisation of services, teleworking in the public sector can be crucial. However, the issues of the protection of personal data and the right of the decoupling official are of key importance. How is it possible to regulate the protection of personal data transferred to future presidential decrees - many of my colleagues have said so - and there is no concern about their safety? Look, if we do not equip the framework of uniform conditions with common rules and criteria, with the bodies' organograms, then it is very likely that there will be distortions, which the workers, who were ironed out a moment ago, will probably not strike. But of course we must also talk about transparency. Because when we talk about public administration, nothing else fits, transparency. The process of further digitisation is always a good place to satisfy the customer objectives, and I mean the supply of the teleworking official's equipment. Are we going to see procurement procedures faithful to the law or direct commissions, as you have been used to us for a long time now? We will see these, however, carefully in the future. Of course, the technological upgrading of the public is an important step. However, it is crucial to discuss the direction it will take, how effective it will be for the citizen and for the worker. And let's not forget that SYRIZA has an extremely large share of the digital project in the public sector, SYRIZA, who has developed labour structures and implemented projects of technology, information and communication in the public sector. The whole world didn't start with your government. I believe that this draft law should have as its basic obligation the protection of workers' rights. However, we see provisions which are not clear in this respect, and which are at risk from the way in which the administration is exercised in conjunction with the proper functioning of public services. Because that's what we're asking for. After speaking, ladies and gentlemen, on the basic obligation of the bill, I will tell you what should be prevented, in our view. We have as a state to block anything that can encapsulate the teleworker in an environment that is unhealthy, toxic and unregulated. I spoke before about the right to disconnect. In addition, I will say about working hours and the rights more generally arising from labour legislation, physical work and the possibility - and here I am thinking - of unfavourable service development on the grounds of teleworking, as my colleagues have said. Can't you see it in the private sector, where those who follow an extended teleworking programme lack the privileges they have had to date? With the teleworkers' operating costs, what about it? Are they gonna pay for this? And since we are discussing the major dimensions of teleworking, do you intend to incorporate the workers into collective bargaining, that is to say, to acquire this category of workers in a collective entity? That is the way in which the regulation framework is being put in place. Otherwise, they will talk about inappropriate programmes, which I have shown you in consultation, and what I have probably told you at the beginning of a water hole will be the only truth. In fact, the definition of a low level of teleworked civil servants must be specified according to the selection criteria. This means that the employer's management must also document its refusal, but the worker must be able to claim his right. In conclusion, I would like to say that, while this is a deeply new working form and culture, the question of distance work requires continuing training. But I see that your legislative practices are not based on detailed conclusions and results on how the institution of teleworking worked over the previous period. That's a bit of a sloppy one. You did not tell us a word about what conclusions you have reached as government. I shall end with these thoughts, Mr President. They're thoughts that don't give me any optimism. I shall of course vote for my party's position. However, I should like to point out that out there outside the Parliament, in the squares of Greece, something is hidden, Mr Loading, my dear fellow Member and new MEP of the Greek Parliament. Remember me and take back the bill, destroyer of the working and trade union rights of the winter working class, which you will bring for a vote in Parliament next Monday. Thank you, Mr President, for your patience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u226	We continue with Ms. Brizidou from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this bill refers to the institutional framework for teleworking and lays down provisions on public sector human resources. The coronary crisis is undoubtedly hit by public administration and education and there was a need to use practices such as teleworking and tele-education. Legislation is also necessary to lay the rules of this development in order to effectively support the new working conditions. We must admit that, while we lacked in relation to the rest of the European Union in this area, the current government and the relevant ministries have covered the gap in the past and have created immediate operating and efficiency conditions. The Ministry of Electronic Governance managed to modernise all the services of the country in a short time and enable citizens to be served and informed electronically. The Ministry of Interior, which has acted equally effectively in the resolution of dozens of malfunctions in public administration and self-government, by voting on recent drafts, now sets the rules to ensure an effective framework for the work of civil servants. Criticism by major-population MPs in this bill is not justified, given the zero-procession and prediction in this area in the past few years, while it was working in all European states and before the coronary. It is useful and moral to recognise the achievements of our political opponents, to be heard and when we disagree. Telework is facilitated by the worker and productivity is strengthened, time and resources are saved from the reduction in service operating costs. Movements are reduced, the environment is protected, resources are saved and, at the same time, the work produced is transferred to the services and the citizens respectively. People who have difficulty in the balance of occupation and private life, mothers, people with disabilities, are served. However, we need to create a uniform and modern institutional framework for teleworking in public services, both under normal conditions and under crisis conditions. This draft law provides for common principles for the organisation and management of work, rules for the protection of personal data, lays down the voluntary nature of telework, the principle of equal treatment of teleworkers with non-teleworkers, strengthens the management right to choose the number of employees, and incentives are laid down for the employees involved, so that they need some flexibility of time to make use of it, achieving the best combination of private and professional life. Focus is given to the Personal Data Protection Authority, which is ensured by appropriate measures. It is worth mentioning the care taken for officials with permanent or temporary health problems who, if possible, can request to carry out their work through telework. The institution shall be obliged to accept the request, unless there is a serious reasoned reason for rejection. Also, in order to avoid injustices or alienation from colleagues and service, a time limit is set for teleworking and it is a three-month period in which a maximum of forty-four days, and the percentage of teleworked workers must not exceed 25% of the total number of managers per quarter. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate the words of Minister Voridis that the revolutions at work have taken place through rapid technological developments, have given birth to political issues, social retraining and, yes, digitisation is a deep political choice, the value of which is more or less recognizable, but the New Democracy is doing so and sets the rules of this development with the current vote on a draft law, which I call on everyone to vote for, because it is crucial and necessary for a modern Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u228	Thank you. We shall conclude by the speakers with Mr Vassiliou Vassiliou from the New Democracy. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that both I and many of us are now in a teleconferencing position in Parliament, which we could not do 15 months ago, is enough to demonstrate the rapid increase in the need for teleworking and the steep integration of new technologies into the production process. The adaptation of the private sector to the new reality imposed by the pandemic was immediate. The services provided online and teleworking are currently experiencing the beginning of a "golden" era of digital transformation of the global economy. As I have said before and, of course, other colleagues have seen, societies are evolving and adapting, but legislation on these new data usually comes in this case too, so we have a rapid development in our society and we now have the responsibility of legislating a fair, operational and effective framework for teleworking. The truth is that the New Democracy Government as a whole with the Ministry of Digital Governance at the top of the spear, of course, had a comprehensive plan for the digital transition, which it has implemented since the first day of the takeover of governance. Long before the pandemic, the Single Digital Gate of the State, the Digital Transformation Bible, the upgrading of the single insurance institution to e-ECA are the foundation stones of the new most digital building of public administration. The abolition of fax, the merger of documents and procedures, even of the CIVID digital certificate, for which we have already legislated, are small but stable steps towards eliminating the monster of bureaucracy, in favour of a new civil-state relationship, which will produce better services for the citizen, while at the same time reducing the work volume of the public-runner. I come to the question of teleworking and, in particular, its use in the public sector. As I said earlier, this is a process that is already here, beside us, in the private sector, but also in several cases also in the public, informally. The obvious benefits are time and money saving for the worker, who will not be required to move from and from the workplace. Moreover, it is possible for people with health problems or disabled persons to remain productive even when they are unable to carry out living duties. At this point I would like, Minister, to see the remarks made by the RESEMA for disabled people on teleworking days again. Apart from benefits, however, such as any change, teleworking also brings a number of challenges. I think that the Legislative initiative of the Ministry has managed to identify and deal with them with the four basic principles on which the draft law is based: the voluntary nature of the worker and the organisation, the principle of equal treatment for the rights and obligations of workers remotely with regard to development and payroll, the protection of personal data under the responsibility of the institution and, finally, respect for the private life of the worker. In particular, the right to decoupling is something that we are also dealing with in the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and we will also have the opportunity to place ourselves in plenary next week. The individual provisions of the draft law are a synthesis of research and practices by European countries and also supranational organisations such as the European Union, the OECD, the Council of Europe and, of course, the International Labour Organisation. There are issues relating to the time limits and working hours of teleworking and a maximum limit is set for the number of employees who can work by teleworking by address to each body. Generally speaking, Mr President, I think that the draft law before us sets the necessary framework for the proper implementation of teleworking in the public sector, covering all the aspects and risks that may be encountered, while at the same time providing the necessary flexibility to the relevant bodies so that it can be effective. Let me also make a brief reference to the provisions of the second part of the draft law, which, in my view, regulates individual issues, which we could include in the great effort to rationalise the public. I welcome the resolution by the opposition parties to vote in favour of this draft law at first, and I hope now, at the end of the debate, that this consensus has been extended. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to refer to the amendment with a general number of 918 and a special number 97. The reform of the introductory examinations of the National School of Public Administration proposed by the Ministry introduces innovative changes in the process, which enhance the range and quality of students. I think we can agree that better qualified graduates from the ECHR mean better public service to citizens. Finally, I consider the Minister's intervention to be positive in the mobility system, which I think gives quite a lot of flexibility in the management of public staff. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We will continue with the two special speakers who have asked for the floor for three minutes, Mr. Delis and Mr. Papalis. Mrs Adamopoulou has also called for the floor. We'll start with Mrs. Adamopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u231	Can I make a suggestion? Should I intervene, should my colleagues answer and speak last?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u232	Minister, don't you want to speak last? The Minister always speaks last.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u233	All right, last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u234	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I'll take the floor for a little while. A few comments on some amendments. For Amendment No 920 by the Ministry of Education: we see that, unfortunately, here at least twenty teachers' specialties in technical education are being reduced and thus organic positions are being taken. We believe that this amendment makes another gift in Article 4, to private IEKs, following the dissolution of technical education, while at the same time giving them unemployment. As far as Amendment No 921 is concerned, for border guards, the proposed amendment is primarily aimed at renewing the mandate of eight hundred fixed-term border guards whose term of office expires next July. However, we see that there is a selective treatment on the part of the government because it does not go ahead with similar renewals in the other cases of the completion of the service time of workers employed under a fixed-term contract and with a much stronger social footprint, such as health workers, teachers and others, but is only interested in the repressive powers. Articles 5 and 6 of the amendment, concerning preliminary examinations for admission to the Police and Officers Schools and to cover the positions of special guards, provide that candidates of these schools are subjected to psychometric tests. In other words, the only thing that changes substantially in relation to the previous institutional framework is the replacement of the word 'psychological' with the word 'psychological'. And we wonder whether this verbal change can justify expenditure of EUR 7.9 000 for each candidate for admission to police schools or special guards, as stated in the special report. Apparently, they are thousands of candidates. Costs are arrogant and it's not justified. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u236	Thank you. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u237	As we have said today in our prototype and in our committees, despite the fact that teleworking is forged with a modern and modern wrapping, its content is quite different. It is a form of labour exploitation, but that is why - we will say it again - it is not the technology, you know. Technology looks like a knife. With the knife you can cut bread, but you can kill a man. It matters, therefore, how technology is used. So when technology is in the hands of the bourgeoisie, in the hands of capital, it is used for its own interests. It brings it as a working form, intensifying the exploitation, breaking hours, destroying every concept of different hours of personal, family and working life. On the other hand, in another government, in another social class, these technologies would be used to drastically reduce, for example, working time for workers. What do we see today? We see it grow. That is what we are talking about for teleworking, because I think the matter has been exhausted, at least as far as we are concerned. I now move on to the amendments. On the basis of the amendments, the Minister spoke very early on about the so-called 'good legislature rules' and how beneficial these rules are. That's right. Of course. However, given that the privilege of legislating belongs, as we know, exclusively to the government majority and the government, and also to the present repeated tabling of extensive amendments to the bills - in fact, the volume and quantity of articles are greater than the bill we are voting on - and given the tabling of amendments not only of the bill, but also of their own provisions between several Ministries, we would call and ask the Minister to teach them these rules and his colleagues, with the hope that at some point we might avoid being in that unpleasant position to put, for example, a vote in a total of six, seven, eight articles and for which we have a different vote: in other things we would like to vote on, in other words, to vote against. But we don't have that right. And I am taking the example here of the Ministry of Education's amendment. At first there are two - three articles on so-called skill workshops, namely, skills, which are nothing but a substitute for scientific knowledge, which we shall of course vote against. At the same time, however, there is also a provision which at last recognises the law of the fight of students from OAU professional schools not to change their rules of study this year in the middle of the year. If that's possible! They had to fight these children so many times, we asked two topical questions, that the government would come to meet this request. And of course, we will vote on this article, but as this amendment stands, it raises us a question. I repeat that we agree with the amendment. We have a comment on the arrangements of the amendment brought by Mr Petsas in relation to the arrangements for the debts of municipalities. This is another opportunity to regulate debts, whether because of COVID or before, but we think that all that is done in this way is that can go a little further. In fact, why did these people lose control, Minister? Because they couldn't pay. So if we really want to deal with the problem, then the government can give the municipalities and, in particular, the municipal councils the right to decide on them, even write off debts and arrangements of this kind that these people and the debtors can repay. And finally, in relation to the amendment to the National School of Public Administration, we are of course voting against it, because it changes the matter in the middle of the examination period, it increases the matter, it raises even greater obstacles for those people who want to enter this school, which is one of the few, small, openings, to work in public. Of course, we also think that the government is trying to control the operation of this school and its graduates to a large extent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, testify to the legislative improvements you have told me. I didn't get it before. I thought you wanted to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr President. We're putting forward legislative improvements. They are purely verbal and have no substantial change worth commenting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u240	Finish with Mr. Papaliou for three minutes. You have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to summarise our views on this bill and say that we are voting against it for very specific reasons, which, of course, have been mentioned and developed during today's plenary sitting. We do not disagree with the need to regulate teleworking. However, our vote is negative for the following three reasons: First of all, the bill is a report of ideas. It includes general clauses and vague arrangements, without specialising them and without forming a structured and comprehensive regulatory framework. Its implementation in practice refers to the adoption of a Presidential Decree on the protection of personal data - which also poses a problem regarding the time of entry into force of the law, if it is adopted - and the adoption of ministerial decisions on other issues. This means that cybersecurity, the protection of personal data and the safeguarding of workers' rights are in the air and poses risks, because it is up to them to be guided and, of course, dependent on the arbitrary crisis of the ministers. The second reason is how to legislate, in this case of poor legislation, we have also developed it today in the committee's meetings - with the addition of articles and regulations after consultation and with the tabling of amendments to whole bills on unrelated issues, which makes the whole process unacceptable and unconstitutional. Minister, every time your government 'finishes'. And the third reason is that, and because of the previous ones, we have no confidence in you. It seems that neither has your society now, as has been shown by today's great mobilisation, because you have a confirmed register, which is constantly enriched. As regards the submission, discussion and vote of the bill - an abortion for labour, it shows that you are continuing the path of neoliberal deregulation. Now, only two words about the amendments that are being introduced. On the subject of the competition at the National School of Public Administration, we insist and insist to the end, addressing the Minister, to change it. The new method of examination should be carried out, for reasons of justice and moral reasons, by the subsequent competition and not by the next one. Because you leave it in this way - and I said it again in my protology, and my colleagues have said so - the suspicion that some benefit from this change, which raises doubts about the inability of this particular process. The amendment on the placing of vaccines in third countries will be voted on. It is a positive provision. And let us not forget that solidarity between states - and because pandemic is not just about states, but about the whole world - it must exist to protect the health of the world's population. We have proposed - the initiative was the President of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras - the lifting of the patents so that vaccines cease to be a commodity, but become a social good for all. For the Ministry of Education's amendment, I would like to point out this and this is a more general comment on the amendments. I would like to say to the President-in-Office that I am not in favour of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection, but of the amendments tabled by the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection. In any case, we shall vote 'at present' in the amendment of the Ministry of Education. The fact is that we do not agree with the "schooling" of the kindergarten, we have doubts about the introduction of English into the kindergarten. We are in favour of the setting-up of new educational staff, but you are transferring these posts from secondary to primary education, without the reasons for this transfer being clear and what needs are in organic positions. Thousands of, about fifteen thousand, assignments are required, in our view, to cover the necessary teaching objects. So here we are voting 'the present'. We are voting against the amendment by the Ministry of Civil Protection because the border guards, who were hired at an earlier stage, have been unorthodox, i.e. without objective procedures and are currently creating organic positions that are coming to cover. As also in their responsibilities, entry and exit guarding of airports is added, which I think is a problem, because they are not police officers, and that is why you have changed the terminology of 'prosecuting illegal immigration', which also means pre-review work,'management of illegal immigration'. We are therefore voting against this amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. You have the floor, Minister, for 20 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. As evidenced by the discussion and attitude of the parties in the examination of this bill, once again it is confirmed that the Left is a force of reaction, regression, refusal of any developments, ultimately a barbaric for the progress of society. What did you vote on today on the Left parties? And I stress it on the left, because others have voted differently. What did you vote for today? You voted 'no' in principle in a bill regulating teleworking in the public sector. That is what you are voting on at first. You are in principle opposed to teleworking in the public sector. That's what you chose. And I'll tell you your objections then. Because, beware, you realise that you are obliged to agree and agree on the basic choices made in the field of teleworking. You'll agree to the key choices made by the bill. Who? You will agree on optionality, which is a central debate. Should it be compulsory or optional? It responds to the bill, says the government: Optional for the worker. Central strategic choice for regulation. Yes, sir. You agree on that. Central and second major debate: Should teleworking affect service development or not? No, not to affect her, the government says. Be the same as for any other non-teleworker. You'll agree on that, too. Third big issue: To affect wage developments? No, not to affect her, the government says. You'll agree on that, too. To be a personal change? No, it's not a service change, the government says. You'll agree on that. So why do you disagree? Now here's the reason why we should vote against Critical Opposition. Listen to a reasoned vote on such a matter, which will very much judge the way in which work will be organised in the public sector in the coming years: "This is a report of ideas, you have many legislative powers." Is that a reason to vote against in principle? "We have no confidence in you." Why, did we ask you for a vote of confidence? We told you if you agree with the bill. Did we tell you if you trust the government as a whole? And a third. Listen. I don't even remember the third one, it was completely insignificant, I completely forgot. You said three, I remember the two, which were what I said. On these grounds, therefore, SYRIZA, the Qualified Opposition, comes today to say what he says. But I didn't say we might not have any disagreements on individual points. And we do. With the Change Movement, which "yes" votes in principle, we have individual disagreements on specific issues, but can one deny the modern world to be institutionalised? Let me tell you something. If you convinced me now and said, yes, they are right at first, not to vote for it, to take the bill back, to leave the field unregulated? Why? Because we do not agree on the extent of legislative powers? The third is - I remembered now - that we are asking for a presidential decree to regulate the protection of personal data. I've got good news for you. That was essentially our agreement with the Protection Authority, because it cannot be done otherwise, because it is an extremely technical and analytical issue. For the provision contained in the draft law on the protection of personal data, which is absolutely detailed, you have heard the Data Protection Authority, which said that it is essentially relevant to the directions and instructions of the authority. And what do you want? Can I put the presidential decree in the law? Where did you see that, that for the special issues we're gonna put them in the law? It's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, it's, Why is it a gonatogram? Why have we not put the President-in-Office's decree on the protection of personal data, which, by the way, you too want and you rescind, and you agree that the principle must be given prior opinion. How will the principle be taken precedent if we had it in here? How will it be if we do not make a presidential decree, so that we can send it for processing? Now listen to the objections of the Objection! But that raises one issue and that is your problem. We, you know, little is concerned with this because you have taken advantage of today, not to discuss a major issue that is changing the landscape of work in the public and private sectors, that is, the introduction of digital technology, which shapes radically, otherwise, employment relationships, which will give birth to jobs by 85% in the next decade, which will obviously give rise to social, labour and political issues, on the one hand, as it will try not to inactivate public technology, not to stay behind, not to be the public burden of economic and social development, but, of course, to monitor technological progress and, of course, this will raise issues with workers who are not familiar, with their training, with the new positions that need to be done, with the new jobs that are also being created in the public and private sectors. You didn't want to talk about them, because you're about the other, the great, the big. What were the big, big ones? That there were a few thousand - the classic thousands by the way - and on the crown the ruin and the roller, which the workers didn't understand, because the known thousands were out there, the "Classic engraved", so they didn't understand it and you understood it. Do you know why the workers aren't watching you? Because you talked about the boogeyman and the wolf, who comes too many times. The wolf's coming, who's the wolf? Right's coming. What will the Right do to you public workers? He'll fire you. People are waiting for redundancies. They waited a month after our election, two months, six, a year passed, no redundancies. They're still waiting. He's hiring, yes, because you told us that the number of emergencies has increased. Now, do you understand what's going on? Where's the wolf? Well, you called him the wolf many times. Now you're shouting about the wolf. The wolf is again, they're not gonna have a job, they're still working overtime without being rewarded, terrorism is back on track. But, you know, that's not going far, because the bill will be passed and the law will start to apply and where they expect they won't be paid, they will suddenly find that the employment relationship may be shaped in a way that is much more efficient for themselves. And they'll think, who would tell me one thing, and who would tell me the other thing? Let's see who's finally going to verify. That's why, despite your voices, despite your extreme positions, workers are not watching, so they don't follow. Why, if we are the representatives of capital and of the few, why do we get 40% and you 20%? So stupid are these many, and they don't know their interests and even class and finances? But you represent a bogeyman, while you are not here - I beg your pardon - to do your political work, to put forward concrete proposals and make them - I say to you - and contrasts and differentiations and to show a different perspective. Of course we have a different perspective. It seems in some parts. They do not justify voting against the bill strategically, but, of course, we have a different view on some points. When you come to me and tell me that I want you to have detailed criteria for me, describe them, put them to me in the law and have a special and thorough statement and a right to object and appeal against the Director's decision, I don't want to do it like that, because I'll never get anyone into telework. I don't want to do it like that, I tell you straight away. He says Mr. Raguss: it's a gonatogram, because you didn't predict that. It's not that I negligently didn't see it coming, I don't want it. I don't want them! Did Mr. Raguss get it? She's not around to talk to you. It's my choice. We talked about all this. We talked about it if this had to be the case. And we said that if this is the case, for a position, who is going to go to teleworking and who is not going to go, the chief of staff must write thirty-five pages in detail with criteria and molecules, in fact we do not even have this tool and I said no, I want it to be a management right. You started telling me about arbitraryness. What arbitraryness? They're executives. Managers must have the responsibility of the administration of their service and of their organic unit, and I must also give them management tools - look out - on a subject which is not a service change, so it does not affect. Because if you were to tell me that this affects whether it would take more or less money, I would say to you, I understand what you are saying to me. If you were to tell me that the one that is getting caught will evolve faster or later, I'd understand what you're saying to me. For something that is not a service change, I do not understand why it cannot fall under its management right. There, yes, well, we have disagreement. Second disagreement. You're telling me: You know, as a prerequisite for teleworking, we want you to grant the station. Two minutes. And I ask: if the public is not ready to give the station, there is no possibility of teleworking? And you answer: No. And I answer: Yes. Why? Why if the worker wants to use teleworking as optional and wants to use his own equipment, under terms and conditions, yes, which I will really specialize in a ministerial decision, because it is procedural and functional and makes no sense to put it into law, under the terms and conditions, so why not allow it, please? You say, no, don't allow it. Why? Because you're reactive. Because you are a delaying force, because you do not want anything to change, and society sees it, the workers themselves, because workers now understand that the positions you are defending are bad positions for their own interests. They understand that now. So of course we have a difference of philosophy. I didn't tell you we agreed on everything. Of course we have differences. You also told me something that I did not understand and what your position is: we say that we do not want the worker to be alienated from work. So we're putting a certain framework into the law for the time, the number, the percentage of workers and the duration of teleworking. Why are we doing this? Because it's our choice. Because we thought about whether there might be a teleworker who would be gone forever and at home. Be like this or not? And we said no, it's not, because we don't want the teleworker to be alienated from his service. We want it to remain an organic part of its working community. So we had a thought on this. You may disagree and say 'no, you must give exceptions'. You have also made an observation that has a plausibility, which the RESEMA is doing. I can hear her. But I say that, because I am in the first phase of implementation, I want to see how it will be dealt with in the framework of a ministerial decision. We need to see how this works, see the numbers. We need to see what practical impact it will have when it starts to apply. And Mr. Kamines said something, which I find interesting and I hear. Normally for such issues, which are very long, we should have periods of pilot application, to see exactly how they work, so that there are no great disturbances in the service. So this careful approach, if you like, to a number of issues, we put the Minister with a ministerial decision to see it. And you come and say 'no, we do nothing, because all this has to end now in the law.' This is, therefore, a false approach. But beware: Your approach is wrong. However, it could be a different approach to these points and have a conversation, see, hear arguments. But you don't say that. You say 'we are voting against, because we have no confidence in you'. Now, as to why you don't trust us, I know? You don't love us! Okay, nothing happened! So, here, your position proves what is actually your permanent inclination. And I'll tell you something else, to see, that's, the kind of opposition I'm facing. I'm coming to tell you that I'm changing my exams to the Public Administration School. And what am I saying I'm changing? I'm telling you that I'm actually upgrading - what have I told you about the Public Administration School? - of the board of directors, that I have distinguished teachers on the school board, one of them comes from Yale, so from a great foreign university. I also say to you that I understand the school as an educational institution that makes senior and senior civil servants and that that is why I want the school to be demanding, I want it to be difficult, i.e. I want it to be a school which really is not another way of entering the public, but which actually produces these members. So it is already addressed to people who choose a demanding process and entry and examinations, competition, but obviously also to study. And I'm telling you, I'm changing the contest in that direction. What I do, that is, that I have written examinations in language, which was not there, and that I also have written examinations in courses that were not there. Well, actually, I'm doing more stressful exams. And what's your counterpopulation? Left you are, my child, say a nice equation, such as 'no, you make a school elite, it's not right'. Say that to have an ideological controversy! You are not saying anything about that, you are not saying a word in order to have such a debate on content, identity and direction. Incidentally, this is the debate that is taking place in France, not at that level, on the 'École Nationale d'Administration'. That's what the French left says. You don't say that. You say your problem is whether this change will affect the current tests and take them a little below. Is that the major in the school discussion today? You know, what we're going to do here, to have an interest, is to do the Collision and the Opposition, because with what they say, it doesn't have any interest. We'll call them the back-up argument, make the lawyers from here and there! So you do not say that, but you come and say that there is supposedly a violation of good administration, because it says we surprise them. Why are we surpriseing them? First, it's a competition. The best will come in. Those who give tests will give under any circumstances. So now that they are being informed, everyone is being informed now. The hundred and sixty better will get in. What's invading? This isn't an exam, to have the question of whether you're going through, you won't pass, if you went through the class, if you were promoted, you didn't promote. Here we have numerus clausus! The number of hits is closed, it's a hundred sixty. Under the same conditions they also give tests to those who give tests will achieve the best sixty percent. What is offended here by the 'usable administration'? That's the one. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] Secondly, what we are changing is essentially the addition of some lessons and, because we move the time of the competition, we give four months of preparation. Why are not all four months of preparation? Since it essentially has a 12-month cycle of preparation. Why, then, are the four months of preparation not enough for the two courses? So in this respect too, it does not "people". But notice how low the argument is, how little and how insignificant it is. So there is no central debate here about the strategic targeting of the school, where we want to take it and if you agree. I've taken it that you agree and I'm very pleased, I just didn't expect it. It is not the central debate, which concerns the central aim of the school, but the regional one. So you're actually in complete discomfort. That is why, because you are in this embarrassment and because what you wanted to discuss today was not this bill, because this bill does not favour you, it is not convenient for you to discuss it, you preferred to discuss labour that you think it favours you. In both bills, however, the nature and identity of the Left emerged. And I close as I started. With your vote today you are proving that the Left is a reactionary force, regression, a barbaric in society's evolution, finally cut off from the real needs and society and the workers. Mr President, before we close, let me just have a formal change. In the title of the bill, where we refer to "... and other arrangements of the Ministry of Home Affairs" other urgent arrangements must be made. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u244	All right, Minister, that doesn't change the vote. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Institutional framework of teleworking, provisions on public sector human resources and other urgent arrangements' is closed. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of twenty-six articles, five amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have voted for all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. After registering your vote, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u245	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u246	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u247	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Institutional framework of teleworking, provisions on public sector human resources and other urgent arrangements’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u248	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u249	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-10-S1-commons.u250	With the consent of this House at 19:29 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 11 June 2021 and 9.00 p.m. on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, debate on topical and urgent questions.
