ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 2-9-2021 authorisation, PPB's minutes were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau at its 2-9-2021 meetings with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Security reform for New Generation: the introduction of a capitalisation system for predefined contributions to subsidiary insurance, the establishment, organisation and operation of a Capital Insurance Fund and related provisions’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Monday 6 September 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. The question by number 1005/30-8-2021 of the Deputy Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakri to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Manufacture of the Almopia (Kales) dam". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 987/30-8-2021 of the Member of the Ilias Parliamentary of the Change Movement, Mr Michael Katrin, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Incomplete support measures for the firefighting Elias'. 3. The question by number 996/30-8-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To withdraw the dismissal of the President of the Trade Union Workers' Medals and Latforms of Northern Greece and protect the right to work and trade union action". 4. Under number 988/30-8-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "What became the sealed boxes from the Tatoi estate after the catastrophic fire on 5 August?" B. PERSONS OF second-cycle Questions (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure). 1. Mr Panagiotis (Panos) Scouroliakou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "What is going on with Tatoi after all?" 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 991/30-8-2021 of the Member of Parliament's Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The society of Boeotia requires clear answers about what is to come with the General Hospital of Thebes." 3. The question by number 997/30-8-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "To cancel the permit for quarrying in the mountainous volume of Lailia in the Regional Unit of Serres". 4. The question under number 989/30-8-2021 was raised by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Reinsurance of the voluntary fire-fighting movement and misuse of the volunteer fire extinguishers of the Fire Corps". 5. The question by No 1008/30-8-2021 of the Member of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, on "To carry out the full implementation of the transport equivalent programme for Crete". 6. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Government must ensure the preservation of labour law and prevent collective redundancies in the Kavala Phosphoric Fertilizers Industry". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: “From Eye to Evia. The refusal to implement the proposals of the Gondamer finding on the restructuring of forest fire-fighting is criminalised." 8. The question under number 1009/30-8-2021 of SYRIZA's MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Christos Giannoulis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct need to replace the forest fire-fighting rings in the woods of Sheik Sou". 9. The question by number 999/30-8-2021 of the Vice-President of Parliament and MP Arcadias of the Change Movement Mr. Odysseas Konstantinopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Priority and facilitation of farmers, farmers and small groups of producers, as well as small businessmen, oilseeds, cheese shops at the installation of small photovoltaics (up to 500 kW) for the acquisition of a permanent fixed alternative income in the fire-fighting areas". 10. Under number 1010/30-8-2021, a topical question by SYRIZA MP Messinia - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros (Alexis) Greeting to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "No progress in the implementation of the road upgrading project Good Water - Chacona". 11. Under No 1000/30-8-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'To remove the discrimination of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Mirasia refugees'. 12. The question by number 1001/30-8-2021 of the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Support measures and initiatives to promote Greek raisins". 13. Observations of the Court of Justice The Question No 1002/30-8-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "Recording of the damage caused by high temperatures in agricultural crops and direct support measures for producers". 14. Observed. The Question No 1003/30-8-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Digital Governance, on the subject: "To remove the unfavourable treatment of agricultural parcels from the legacy of rural rehabilitation of Miraiat refugees". 15. The Question No 1004/30-8-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Let compensation be finally paid to those affected by the floods of October and November 2020 in Crete." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No 7208/11-6-2021 asked by SYRIZA's MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos Markos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Government must publish the mortality rates in all the intensive treatment units of the country." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 8108/19-7-2021 of the SYRIZA MP Drama - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophilos Xanthopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: Continuing degradation and secondment of Drama Hospital to medical and nursing staff - Government unwillingness for effective support - Award of cleanliness to contractors - Merger plans and abolition of hospital units and clinics. 3. The question and application under number 7977/661/13-7-2021 of the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, entitled "Maagazia" to settle blue children PPC and TEDO? 4. The question asked by MP II of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Will jobs and working conditions be ensured in the inadmissible for the public interest, sale of the percentage of the public in the Infrastructures?" Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter to the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs he informs the House about the following: "We hereby inform you of the topical and urgent questions within the framework of the parliamentary scrutiny of Friday, September 3, 2021, that the topical questions to be discussed are: The number 1011/30-8-2021 which will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon -Adoni Georgiadis, the Question 998/30-8-2021 which will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zoi Makri, the question number 995/30-8-2021 that will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Evangelos Kyrigos and the number 994/30-8-2021 and the question that will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Culture. Before we begin, I would ask you to keep our time as far as possible because it follows the Ministry of Migration Policy bill. The first question will be discussed under number 1011/30-8-2021 in the second cycle of MP B2' Western Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Panagiotis Kourublis, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject of "Fascious, unfair and irrational charges by banks against citizens and small and medium-sized enterprises". Mr Kourublis' timely question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment Mr Spyridon-Adonis Georgiadis. Mr. Curublis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, good morning, everyone. It is now known that systemic banks are constantly making abuses, which burden citizens on the transactions carried out by citizens towards them. Consumer organisations, such as the Institute of Consumers, EKPIZO, and the Consumers' Counselor, are constantly protesting about this unfair and ultimately illegal practice of the banking system. It is well known, Minister, that I had heard the Prime Minister make recommendations before. However, the banking system, although over time all governments have supported it, in fact it has its own logic, serves its own logic and is well known what it has done so far, that is, from the funding it has received, has given the real economy. From there on, we see that this issue of misappropriation extends to businesses as well. And we have the protests of the Chamber of Commerce, the Finance, the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce, the GSE, that is to say, too many organisations, because their transactions are being charged with such a misappropriated charge. Today, Minister, I hope that you have come here to inform the Greek Parliament and the Greek people, because this issue concerns all Greeks, because we are all, in fact, following such practices in our trade. However, the citizen is unable to resist what they are trying and imposing without relying on legislation. Recently, and I must tell you, a fine of EUR 50 000 was imposed on a banking institution - it does not matter what - it has actually done such actions that are inconsistent with good practice. So I think that we will hear something from you today, not 'other words to be loved' because, all right, people are losing their interest in the House if they do not see the political world beside him and take initiatives that, in fact, can stop such behaviour. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u4	Mr President, thank you very much and I would also like to thank my colleague, Mr Kurubli, for his question and, above all, for his last reference to the fine recently entered by the Secretariat-General for Trade and Consumer Protection - with a final signatory indeed - in a banking institution. And I say thank you, because I have to inform the Greek people about something that is real and is proven by evidence. The only period in recent years that the Ministry of Development and Investment and the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumers has not hesitated to impose fines on banking institutions is my term of office. I didn't find any previous fines. I don't want to say any more. I am pleased to say, however, that you have indeed said that the citizen feels unprotected. That's probably true. But I want to say from the sacred step of the House that every fellow citizen of ours does not feel. Because if he makes a specific complaint to '1520' and this complaint is documented, it is true, there is no way that we will hesitate to apply the law. And I invite our last fellow citizen to inform us so that we too can implement the law. In addition to the moves that each citizen will make on his own, however, we have acted on my own duty and extremely coordinates. I would remind you that the Minister for Development of Adonidos Georgiados has launched an investigation into the abuse of banking practices by the Competition Committee. In November 2019, we had the known attack of the Competition Committee on banking institutions. I cannot say publicly, I do not know, and I should not have known, and I cannot know the details of this investigation, because it is classified and too severely penalised by both national and Union legislation. However, I can tell you that, as a supervising minister, I have asked for the investigation to be completed as quickly as possible so that we can see whether there are any or no such abusive practices and not the concept of understanding between them. But until there has been some kind of conclusion of the Competition Committee and specific information, I cannot accept that this practice applies because that would be completely illegal. But if the Competition Committee reaches such a conclusion, we will be here to reinstate the law. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] As far as - and I am closing down, Mr President - the substance of the question about additional charges is concerned, I would like you to analyse them if you can see what you are talking about in your dentistry. We have checked with the agency over the past few days one by one of the debits of the banking institutions. We didn't find any growth in any of the previous period. There is no new one, that is, an increase in the charge of the service by any bank. In a bank - I will not say her name because I am going to advertise her - there is a new charge, but for a new service, and in particular the possibility of taking on a bank credit card abroad from banking institutions other than that. And this thing didn't exist as a service. It entered as a service, so it is being charged for the first time and, of course, it concerns a very small number of users. It concerns - if I remember the number that the agency gave me - three hundred and fifty customers of a particular bank that they have made use of this service. But if there has been a certain increase in the charging of a particular bank, I would love to know it, because we did not find it in the service.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u5	Mr. Kourublis has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u6	Mr Minister, before I put myself in your position, I would like to tell you that I heard you the day before yesterday looking very maniacly against Admiral Vaggelis Apostolakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Curublis, don't start this conversation right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u8	I have a right, Mr President, to make a reference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u9	He'll answer you now, don't you understand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u10	I'd tell you it was very unfair what you did. But to accept that you're right about what you said. What does that mean, Minister? That he's so incapable of the Prime Minister who didn't understand what you understood. Now I'm going to the point. Minister, do you think the cases are isolated? If you believe it, I'll tell you you're right. But they're not isolated cases. If you want now that we're done getting into the bank where it's next door to make a transaction to see what's going on. Let's see if, really, this is an extensive phenomenon. A man who needs two euros. But you see the Greek, unfortunately, does not have this culture to protest immediately and will swallow it. Unfortunately, we don't have that feeling of things and it's wrong. It is wrong that we do not have it as a society, it is the well-known "oh brother" and everything else. But here there are consumer organizations that are protesting. I will therefore send you to your office the complaints I have received from consumer organizations and from EKPIZO and from the Institute of Consumers and also from institutions, as I have said, the Chambers of Chambers of Commerce, GSEW, and the Chamber of Commerce in Athens, Piraeus and others. In other words, it is a reality that this abusive behaviour manifests the banking system arbitrarily adds charges to the detriment of the consumer. Because I am sure that you have received as a human, as a citizen, as a politician you are circulating - and you are circulating - complaints from too many people about such behaviours. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u11	Minister, I would ask you not to refer to the reshape. Sure, you can. But I'm making this request to you. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I didn't mean to talk. I think the admiral thing is over. Okay, she didn't lose the Venetian needle, she'll find someone else to do this job. As far as the news is concerned, I would prefer it - and it was inappropriate that I did not do so before, and I apologise - to refer to and express my sorrow and condolences to the death of the great Mikis Theodorakis. I think that's more timely than all the rest. Now, as far as the substance of the question is concerned, Mr Kurublé, I may not be aware. All complaints from the EMCDDA and the other organisations and institutions, of course, have been taken into account by the Consumer Secretariat and have been examined. After all, the sign you referred to and we put it a few days ago by a complaint began. But it does not mean, Mr President, that every complaint is true. I told you that we worked too hard to find which bank and which service increased costs, and even without prior consumer information. Why be careful, raise the cost, the bank has a right. We also have a free market for competition. To increase it secretly doesn't have the right. However, we have not even found an increase I can tell you in relation to the immediate previous period. And I said not if he has a complaint that we already have, but if he has to tell us in the House, for example, that the issue of a credit card in the bank until 1 July did EUR 1 and now he does two. That's what I asked. We haven't found it. We might be wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u13	The transfer of money from one bank to another?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u14	Transferring money from one bank to another has a cost depending on how it is done, i.e. whether it is electronically or from the store. But we didn't find an increase in this service in relation to the past. As far as the level of bank charges in Greece in general - we have also referred to previous questions in the Greek Parliament - is not derived from anywhere, and there are relevant answers from the relevant Competition Committee of the European Union, that in Greece we have some excessive difference in relation to the other banking institutions of the other European countries. Now I would like, because this is a matter of topicality and we are living at times, Mr President, where there is now an increase in inflation due to international price rises, both in fuel and in energy in general, in fares and in raw materials and which does not depend on the Greek Government to control it, as we have no responsibility on the planet, but on the Greek territory, I would say that it would be much more useful for those who are interested, in fact, in the consumer's pocket to say once again that we have built a service on our days at the Ministry of Development. With this, using the technologies, each of our fellow citizens can download on their mobile phone the e-consumer app and before going to do their shopping in the morning, press the button with the goods he wants to buy and automatically direct him to his neighborhood where he will have better prices. And there the difference, I assure you, because I am using e-consumer, is not 40 minutes and 1 euro and 2 euro, which are important as Mr Kourublis has said, but it can have dozens of euros of the same basket. So we must be well informed by our fellow citizens that the state, the Ministry of Development, has worked and given them the tool to earn every day as much money as possible, under the current circumstances, I repeat the international price rise. Not only do I want to say bad things - and I feel very proud about that, Mr President - that the international PMI index of manufacturing activity for all of Europe was announced the day before yesterday, and for Greece we had our best production and export performance of all times. So Greece is not only a country of services but is slowly and firmly formed in a country of production and exports. And this is not only a success of the Ministry of Development and Investment and of the Mitsotakis Government, whose economic measures they pay for, and this is rewarded by the markets, as we have seen from the bonds we borrowed the other day, but it is a total success of the Greek people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u15	She's extremely expensive!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u16	I repeat, despite the noise from the offices of the opposition, according to the official international index, which is not controlled by any government, and on this basis investors, Greece in August 2021 has achieved its greatest productive activity over the last few decades. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u17	But she's too expensive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u18	Thank you both very much. We continue with the first with the number 1007/30-8-2021 time question of the first cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Full abandonment of the facilities of the National Sport Centre (ESA) Corfu by the ND government". The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Aylonite has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. When I visited, Mr. Undersecretary, the National Sports Center didn't believe my eyes. I watched in the media the press releases and the president's positions and was actually blinded, and I thought they were working in this absolute way and in the reladder. The image is totally depressive, not to say hopeless. To prove the truth, I've brought pictures to see them. I visited the so-called 'National Stadium'. There's no turf, a threesome image in the locker room, in the seats, in the platform. Full abandonment image a few days before being made available to the sporting youth and the multitude unions that Corfu has. That's where he played team I. National. I visited the swimming pool. Two whole years has done absolutely nothing in the swimming pool, despite the fact that the entire machinery for the engine room, which came from Napatto, has not been installed. The union representatives visited me and gave me the full picture of what is happening, and on 13 September the swimming pool should be ready. Not to say about the gym where our athletes were athletic, since it is the only sports complex in Corfu that has been given as a vaccination centre and is not used. Not to mention the staff. Not to mention the closed gym, what's going on. Only I will tell you that the whole Corfu with the numerous clubs has as its only sport complex this particular sports centre, which consists of the court, swimming pool, closed gym, other sports facilities. So I'm showing you these images here and I'm going to testify to them. This lousy picture you'll tell me it's shaped in SYRIZA. This has no correlation in reality. The abandonment has been in recent years and I stress it very much. Every time I ask a topical question, the Minister responsible always refers me to the era of SYRIZA. I also brought the record of the previous administration when they received a National Sports Center with a budget of 300,000, they went up to 600,000, they were hired personnel, the debts paid to the world and the picture is hopeless at the moment. So I am thinking of it, since it is the thought of all sports clubs, give us from the Secretariat-General the National Sports Centre of Corfu, transfer it to the Municipality of Central Corfu, so that we can do our work, of course, with the commitment that this low budget will be transferred to the central city of Corfu. Please tell me if you have any knowledge of what I told you and what your Ministry intends to do to eliminate this disgusting image.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Ignace, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. I also express my grief for the loss of the great Greek Mikis Theodorakis. Mr President, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is at least challenging to criticise me for our country's sports infrastructure, because, as I have said many times in this Chamber, and I have put it together with data, data, figures and photographs that you have tabled today, we have received sport infrastructure in full abandonment, in tragic conditions, of infrastructure which is left to disaster without absolutely any maintenance, infrastructure which is looted, but also in disuse. The sports infrastructure of our country as a whole that we received was in a terrible state. Dissolved image prevailed everywhere. For example, at the OECD, which was supposed to be the real ornament, there was a picture of abandonment, garbage and useless objects everywhere, obvious signs of deterioration and indifference and, above all, no maintenance work for too many years. To the Buron the Sniper, I tell you, it was abandoned. Not only was there no maintenance, Mr Colleague, but there were serious operating problems and problems of use. A similar picture was in the rest of our Olympic facilities, in our national centres across the territory, also with serious deficiencies and serious maintenance problems. And, unfortunately, in this sad image and at a collapse stage, the EAK Corfu was also there. We have been committed to wanting sport for many and, above all, for the next generations and doing so. Our sport reform is not limited to professional and racing sport, it is not limited to amateur sport. Our sport reform is taking place - a step forward, and it concerns the whole of sport, the whole of the sport family, the whole of society. The function of safe and modern sports infrastructure is therefore at the heart of this reform. Without these infrastructures, it is impossible to implement any sporting policy. We ensure proper sporting spaces to help citizens and especially young people in sport, to combine sport with their own family, health and quality of life. Upgrading and modernising our sports facilities, our vision of them and of the political and development of our sport is a very great and demanding project, which we have set as a priority from the first days that we have undertaken our duties and today is evolving throughout the country with realism, based on the real economic data of our country. And I am, first of all, pleased with the rapid progress that has been made over the last two years in all sports infrastructures throughout our country. Small, medium and important maintenance, restoration and upgrading projects are implemented everywhere. In all sports facilities, it has operated or operated a construction site in the last two years. We're doing the same at the Corfu PD, which I'm going to talk about in detail in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Aylonite, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u23	Mr President, I hoped that the Minister's reply would focus on the timely question I have put, because of the seriousness of all the claims I made earlier. And I invoke the reality that Mr. Ausgeias can see for himself. And if he asks what this administration received from the previous one, i.e. if there was a back flash, he would find that the entire sports center was working, he had teams in the First National. And now he's got nothing. When I say there's nothing wrong with it, I mean nothing. How much more rainer am I supposed to say? And it tells me now that, within the general planning of the government, it has slipped me, because it has already been two years - it will restore what is recorded, what is seen in the photos I have shown. The turf of the national stadium needs no more than a month, two months to be indebted to the full, has become a field. The closed gym is down. If you go into the locker room, the plasters are down, the lights are down, the ceilings are down. Does this need a special national policy and national strategic planning? And you're telling me about previous? So let me tell you that with the previous administration there was not a single licence in all sports facilities, there was no fire safety certificate, there was absolutely nothing and that was all. They took a budget of 300,000 and made him 600,000. Two open courtes in basketball, tennis and handball were built. The required work has been completed and we now have a fire safety certificate, which was not in place. They became championships and they didn't exist. There was no staff and almost all covered, what is provided for in the establishment plan. And you're telling me that you received a National Sports Center in this situation the photos show? Through the question, but also in press releases, I said you should, at least, remove the administration. You confirmed the exact opposite and renewed the administration's mandate. Get people to work. How louder that is to call it, Mr Aygeakis, that the situation is hopeless when all unions come and say, "Tell Mr Aygeakis to transfer the National Sports Centre - about three or four or five is all over Greece that remain at the General Secretariat of Sports - to go to the central Municipality of Corfu, to see what we do with our own sports spaces." We're talking about many children, many sports clubs whose agony I carry you through my mouth. What more can I say? In that sense, therefore, I would ask you in particular to come to Corfu some time, tell me, like all the other Members, to go there and see what has happened now, what has happened over the last two years and what has been before. And do what you can. What else can I tell you from this? Do what you can. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u24	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. I do not need to ask what is going on in Corfu, I have come, my dear fellow Member, once and twice on your island as a government, to see closely and to launch, in cooperation with the administration, what we need to do and what I shall report to you immediately afterwards. The fact is that the facilities of Corfu HR are old, with several and important problems. We agree on that. No maintenance projects had been carried out. Two actions taken by the previous administration, at licensing level, were reported, not at project level. However, in the last two years there have been many - not all of what should - many, but important work. More specifically, the fireworks in the closed swimming pool, about EUR 30 000, have already been completed in the closed gym, while the repair work on mobile basketballs and gym support machines, around EUR 20,000, is being carried out. The repair work of the insulation of the closed gym has already been completed. Work on the replacement of bathing leaves has already been completed. The replacement work of the broken windows in the swimming pool and in the closed gym shall be carried out. The tender procedures for the construction of a synthetic sports floor in the auxiliary coachhouse, a budget of about 80,000 euros, have been completed. Work on the performance of the contract has begun, but due to the exceptional circumstances the coach centre is currently operating as a vaccination centre. There has been an interruption in work, therefore. They'll re-start as soon as its function stops as a vaccination centre. The tender procedures for the study on the static adequacy of the closed gym, which you have also raised, and the closed swimming pool, the ECA Corfu, a budget of around EUR 160,000 plus VAT, are being completed. The completion of this study is a basic prerequisite for us to be able to launch any key interventions, both operational and energy-intensive. The repair of the pool engine room, with the supply of new equipment, has also been launched. Alongside the installation of the equipment by the EAK, it has also been received from the Municipality of Nafpaktos after the signing of a memorandum of cooperation and all this in 2021. Now, as far as turf is concerned, my colleague, has already committed the amount in December 2020 and the tender has been made for the maintenance of turf. Five tenders were submitted and the most economically advantageous was chosen, as is provided by the law. The contract with the contractor was signed in December 2020. In spite of the continuous extensions granted to the contractor, as provided for in the Act, due to rainfall and low temperatures, the contractor did not comply with the terms of the contract, in particular as regards malices and the quality of materials and works, thereby declaring a discount. Offers have already been searched for the extra work needed to restore the field, according to our planning. As soon as weather conditions allow, in September, according to the assessment of the specificities of me, work on sowing, sand distribution, lubricating, rolling and regular irrigation will begin. The results of the work will be evident after about ten to fifteen days. Finally, with regard to lack of staff, this is a time-consuming problem, although you said earlier that the previous ones covered it. So what's the problem if it was covered by the previous ones? So it wasn't covered, that's reality. So the problem of workers, lack of staff, we are trying to resolve it in every way. Let me inform you, then, that we have already asked for permanent staffing to be covered in recruitment planning, but as you know, or at least it is easy to know, this is a very long process. We also participated in mobility, but there has been no application for moving or posting of employees to the EAK of Corfu. We have achieved the period 2020-2021, and we will also renew it now, to meet immediate needs through the OAED's public works programme, whose contracts expired in July, and of course will also participate in the new programme of Corfu's public works programme to cover some of the needs. We are not solving the problem, we are simply dealing with it at the moment. In conclusion, let me inform you that the R&D&I has already received the first two instalments of grant for the year 2021 from the Ministry of Sports, totalling 490,000 euros. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud of the work that is being done in the sports facilities of our country. However, I do not hide from you that my agony, me and my colleagues, remains as intense, because we are interested in offering most of them, but of course in the legal way and in the procedures that we are allowed to do so. We'll do anything. I'm happy for your anxiety, too. I keep your invitation and interest so that we can make the best of our contribution together. Because no one wants to see sports facilities old, ruined and abandoned. So I am pleased about today's question and thank you. Rendezvous to Corfu, so that we can look closely at the other issues we need to start. And of course, if there are proposals that are interesting and viable, we are neither negative nor naturally reject before we hear anything about cooperation with the first or second degrees of self-government on sports infrastructures. No prejudice like that. We are extremely open and available to do the best for the sports family and Corfu, but the whole region of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, too. We continue with our second question under number 994/30-8-2021 of the first cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'The abolition of the 'Symbol for All' programme. The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr. Eleftherios Aeggeakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, by your recent letter to the municipalities of the country you notified of the abolition of the 'Symbol for All' programme. It is clear that such a decision is against the social right of sport not only of children, young people but also of all age groups. He has caused reactions to the sports world, the gymnasts, their institutions, as well as the schools of physical education and sport in the country. More specifically, although this programme, which has been in existence for forty years with thousands of beneficiaries every year, has been transformed into a reward service by introducing a price and downgrading for all the previous years because of cuts in funding. Nevertheless, I repeat it still meets the need to sports in families, socially and economically vulnerable groups who cannot afford to pay for sport in the private sector. Moreover, these activities employed thousands of unemployed trainers. The total withdrawal of the General Secretariat from the "Sport for All" programme with mathematical accuracy leads to the further commercialisation of the people's need for exercise, which you consider as a government to be a luxury and comes at a time when the economic situation of the majority of the Greek people is tragic, after ten years of crisis and two years of pandemic. This decision marks, among others, the zeroing of state funding - because that is where it goes - to the municipalities, but also the total overthrow of labour relations in the field of gymnasts, together with the certification of graduates of the IEKs and colleges already passed by your government. Responsibility for the safety of continuing and functioning this programme has all the governments - not only you - over time with deterioration and under-financing. All the governments so far have responsibility for the worse time with the work relationships of the trainers, culminating in payment with the price, i.e. with the heads of the participants established by the SYRIZA government. First of all, I would like to ask you why you have taken this decision to leave the General Secretariat of Sports. Secondly, what do you intend to do in order to remove the decision to abolish the 'Sport for All' programme, to ensure not only that it is restored, but that it is upgraded - why does the need - with full state funding and permanent working relations for the workers themselves? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u28	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u29	From the first time we took up our duties, we have committed ourselves to wanting sport for many and, above all, for future generations. At the core of your position, Mr. Synchronakis, clearly we agree. We don't disagree anywhere. Our sport reform is not limited to professional and racing sport, it is not limited to amateur sport. Our sport reform is taking place - a step forward, and it concerns the whole of sport, the whole of the sports family and, of course, the entire Greek society. On the main axes of our policy we have, from the outset, included mass sport and sport for all. We are shaping the institutional framework and we are ensuring the right sporting grounds to nurture citizens and especially youth in sport, to combine sport with health and quality of life. Mr Colleagues, you should welcome us for changing the 'Sport for All' programme. You should congratulate us for putting an end to a problematic programme which was not for everyone. You should have asked for this programme to be changed, and this is because the existing framework has many intrinsic weaknesses, weaknesses that restrict the social right of sport, weaknesses which make it extremely limited. Let me give you a few examples of the weaknesses the PAGO had. It is accidental that only 1/4 of the municipalities of our country or their entities were involved by the three hundred and thirty-two municipalities of Greece, PAGO was only seventy-eight municipalities in 2020. And don't rush to tell me we had the first lockdown with the coronary. Let me remind you that this started in March 2020. The PAGO had started in autumn 2019. As of 2017, only eighty-eight municipalities participated in the programme, only eighty-eight municipalities participated in 2018, just seventy-five municipalities in 2017 and only ninety-six municipalities in 2016. To limit myself to the quantitative figures for the last five years, I will be allowed to table an excellent table showing exactly how these programmes are allocated, and how the breakdown is then to be discussed. Of course, I'm not confined to 2021, because it was a special year because of a pandemic. I would like to inform you that only forty-two PAGO programmes have been implemented, and this has enabled our approval to be carried out by means of digital means. Should we refer to the geographical distribution of the applicant municipalities and implement PAGO? It's interesting to hear. Over 2/3 of PAGO programs are implemented in Attica and Thessaloniki. You heard it well. If we add to the large populations of Patras, Larissa, Heraklion, you will find that PAGO is implemented almost exclusively in the large urban centres of our country. I cannot imagine, Mr Manolis, that the social right of sport is confined only to the inhabitants of the large urban centres. Where are the island municipalities? Where are the mountain municipalities? Where are the remote areas? Aren't there? And we know why? Why are there probably not trainers, why are there no citizens interested or why there was no real planning or willingness to spread the program and not to function properly throughout the territory and for all citizens? That is why I shall be tabling another item which will be extremely useful to you, since of course you want to go further. The question of trainers employed in the PAGO is, in fact, important and does not leave us indifferent. But here too, there are weaknesses. The most characteristic is that the IAC procedures for their recruitment are not followed. I don't think recruitment should be carried out here under the aptitude procedures of the AACC. I ask you, and I want your answer. I would like to refer a reference to the comment on the unemployment of trainees. First of all, they will continue to work this year. Let me remind you that for the first time we have incorporated the gymnasts sector into OAS support programmes for the unemployed. Let me remind you that we have given a solution to the chronic problem of their professional rehabilitation of the country's SCA graduates - TEFA with main or first speciality football. May I also mention the question of evaluation of PAGO control? Here too there are serious problems. There is no mechanism or effective mechanisms for controlling these programmes, that is to say, what the body says, and there is no evaluation of these programmes. Probably soon we have new data from the investigation of the Independent Transparency Authority following the information we sent them. We expect their finding with great interest. Unfortunately, time does not allow me to refer to other intrinsic weaknesses. Let me remind you here in the Chamber that the aim of establishing the PAGO was to improve the quality of life of citizens through sport, with a view to reducing medical expenses. This objective has unfortunately been forgotten in the process. Ladies and gentlemen, the PAGO programmes must be fully reviewed, because the sums spent, EUR 6.5 million annually, do not correspond to their effectiveness, to the local communities, and that is why there are reasonable protests that are being raised that are more than just us and you are being ignored. They contain inherent weaknesses which cannot be cured by simple corrective interventions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u31	Minister, your decision was clear. Withdrawal from the General Secretariat of Sports from the Sports programme for all. It is another thing to make a decision and leave, namely to effectively abolish this programme and it is another thing with all the intrinsic weaknesses that this programme has, to say, to go ahead with reform, to strengthen the programme so that many more municipalities can enter and the benefits are multiple than those who are to date. But no, "It hurts tooth, I take a tooth", "it hurts head, I cut head" because that is why you spoke beforehand. And when we say that this programme needs to be strengthened for all of us we have practically a very specific proposal. I say this because if you are aiming - that is what your decision says - to stop the operation of the programme you must also have a proposal. You don't have a proposal. You just told us about the intrinsic weaknesses. Bring us your proposal. So we are not talking here about sport for everyone or mass sport. And I will tell you below what the thoughts and prospects you want to implement are. In any case, the first thing you need to do - in our view - is to take this very obscure decision back and stop your excuses. Because it's just excuses. By taking this decision, you should normally say 'we remove the rewarding nature of the PAGO and 100% state funding'. That's the first. Secondly, there must be prolongation. That is, when I say give incentives and strengthen them, that is what we mean. Extension of PAGO from six to seven months, nine to ten yearly. Thirdly, the establishment of suitable modern buildings exclusively for the programme with state funding. Modern logistics, sporting, equipment with state funding, whose lack dramatically restricts the program and blocks the modern ones, severing the institution from the evolution of physical exercise and athletic recreation. In addition, we will be talking about contracted trainers. We are talking about the permanentization of trainers and their periodic training. Finally, reforming molecules criteria for the selection of educational staff by introducing quantification of accredited essential skills and knowledge. Aren't those measures? So why won't you do it? Why don't you do it? Why don't you take them, why don't you adopt them? It is clear, therefore, that this is a decision that is against the social right of citizens and especially young people. He plucks the workrights of the gymnasts and comes as a stepping-up of a course of continuous cuts. And that's why he's caused reactions. He has caused reactions to municipalities, to the sports world, even within your party. Your mayors react. What does such a decision practically mean? I will bring you the example of the Municipality of Athens. This decision is first directed against two and a half thousand beneficiaries. Are they or are they not two and a half thousand beneficiaries in the Municipality of Athens? And tell us about the rest of the municipalities in Greece how many are benefiting from this programme. I will not question the information you said - all the information you said I did not have time to note - that 1/4 of the municipalities participated, but it is a very important number of beneficiaries who were part of the programme. In Athens, of the two and a half thousand, more than sixty people are disabled. This program worked beneficially for the person’s psychomotor balance. He protected it from chronic physical mental and mental illness. Besides, it was not accidentally designated as a prevention programme to protect health. Instead, in conditions of pandemic and crisis that our people are having a difficult time with many psychosomatic problems to strengthen these programmes, you are on the pretext that the programme is not going well. You are abolishing it. Hypocrisy in our view.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Synatiakis, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u33	We therefore consider that this measure essentially opens the way for business and business interests. And the government gives such a perspective. You're just giving it to me. You are sending them to the private sector or to their home for individual training - and here individual responsibility - when you know that this programme is directed at those who were unable to pay for the private sector. Not that they didn't pay now. They paid a small price. However, it was priced as a result of major cuts in state funding. So review it. Repeat this program and strengthen it on the basis of the proposals that have been made to you by institutions, we are also doing to you as a Communist Party of Greece. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u34	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u35	It took my colleague about six minutes to answer something he probably did not want to hear or hear from my prototype. So I'm going to repeat it now. I will use as much time as it takes to reply correctly and documently to my dear colleague. Based on the intrinsic weaknesses I mentioned before, we are reviewing - I stress it - and shaping the new framework of sport for all. This framework also applies to two axes. Firstly, the new draft law which will come to Parliament in the next few weeks. We have introduced regulations for sport for all and, secondly, we are creating a new framework for the sport programme for all which we are in the wider grid of relations between the Ministry of Sport and self-government in the field of sport. We are not abolishing or cutting the PAGO, as is misleadingly supported by some. And you did it yourself just before. On the contrary, we are shaping them, strengthening them and broadening the basis of the participants with a view to genuine participation by all. In the context of the necessary restructuring and reform of the PAGO programmes, in other words, the necessary rules for transparency and evaluation of their work, and not the abolition of them, as you falsely said, we decided that we would not be financially involved in these programmes with their present structure for 2021-2022. I'm stressing it. We are not financially involved, but we are not abolishing the programmes. We have approved the programs of the municipalities and the positions of the gymnasts. That's why I'm actually tabling it in the Minutes. Please, you can collect these documents to deliver them to Mr. Synthraki, so that they can all know the reality and how this money is distributed. And if you're in agreement here, we're going to ask again a question to discuss it. There will be no unemployed from the PAGO, as mistakenly and falsely support some but also you. I repeat that the PAGO will normally be made by the municipalities that, in fact, consider them to be needed and able to support them. But we want the PAGO to be more efficient, to meet the real needs of their municipalities and athletes throughout the territory and not in the two major urban centres of the country. To promote, in practice, mass sport. In order to achieve this, we need to redemarcate the framework of targeted actions, such as their orientation in specific population groups or in island areas. In addition, to effectively and effectively monitor their implementation and evaluate their results. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Eleftherios Aeggeakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Transparency we want. Transparency and sport for all, really, without any discrimination. Our aim is to remodel the PAGO from the new period to make them operational and efficient. We continue, Mr Colleague, in our decision to house the sporting landscape, to form a functional framework, to put order in transparent procedures. And, of course, join as I said in the broader context of relations between the Ministry of Sport and self-government. What do I mean by that? With our athletic reform we did the self-evident function of for the first time a record of amateur sports clubs. Then you were strongly across the street, as you remember. We have ensured that the register of specially recognised sports clubs is kept. We make it self-evident and we have established that a sports club which has not been registered in the upper registries cannot use sports facilities belonging to a supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports legal persons or to OTAs A' and 2' grades. We created the country's sports infrastructure register together with self-government. Thanks to the 'POLOPA', the programme that we are developing with the CEDEFOP is for the first time a record of all the sports infrastructures in our country. In the context of this structured platform of relations between the Secretary of State for Sport and self-government in the field of sport, we also include the extended and necessary remodeled programme for "PAGO". Mr. colleague, I announce to you today that we are setting up a working group directly next week with representatives from the General Secretariat of Sports, the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, the Ministry of Interior, the Panhellenic Association of Physical Education, the Hellenic Olympic Committee and the Greek Paralympic Committee with a mission to process and present directly with a timeline of tightly reformed plan in order to complete the restructuring of the "PAGO" programmes as quickly as possible. The "PAGO" should be directed to as many of our fellow citizens as possible and the money that the state spends whether they come from the fund or from the Ministry of the Interior or from the municipalities themselves, they should catch a place and, of course, have an impact, as every Greek taxpayer wishes. I think we all agree in this House. With this as a compass, we are creating a comprehensive and reformed plan for the 'PAGO's', in order to become operational, to address as many citizens as possible, who do need them and without any discrimination, even those who live in island areas, in remote parts of our country. In this - I imagine - no one disagrees. In particular, they must act in accordance with transparency rules. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u36	Now we move on to the second debate under number 995/30-8-2021 on the second time question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To permanentize contract workers in the preservation of the University of Crete". The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Evangelos Syrigos will answer. Here you go, Mr. Synergy, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u37	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, a fixed-term private-law contract of 12 workers ends on the 24th of this month in the care of the University of Crete. In fact, they were extended until September following insurance measures submitted by workers at the Court of First Instance in Heraklion. Since May 2017, recruited, they have completed a total of four years and two months in the same work. The current contract was signed in July 2019 by an ASEP notice. The risk of unemployment being dumped, with what this implies for themselves and their families, is visible, I would say. Workers, meanwhile, meet important needs, standing needs and lasting as it sounds. It is therefore a joint finding that their residence in jobs is essential to meet the needs of the university's facilities in the area of Buetta, where it is based - we are talking about an area now of three hundred acres - and Knossos - another thirty acres - where equipment is available, and that material of great value and importance which requires a special protection regime, namely 24 hours. This is recognised by the university community itself, by bodies of Heraklion, and the regional council itself has taken a decision 21-7-21 that unanimously appealed to this law to the guards of the University of Crete. I also make the decision of the Regional Council in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Syntrakis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned decision, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Apart from all others, however, there is also a further issue. These workers are fired. If, in other words, they will be fired - which we say will not be fired, but on the contrary - what happens after that? We are very afraid that their dismissal will mean delivering custody to business interests, privatising, in other words, security services, because universities must be protected. How will they be guarded when you fire them? So where are you going with this? The contractors? To fill the contractors' pockets with hundreds of thousands of euros from the university budget and the sound exploitation of workers, while at the same time with clearly less money could be hired by permanent staff? There have been some proportionate studies before - because I know that you like these expressions of reciprocity studies and others - which indicate that the cost is much lower if you hire staff and even permanent, rather than give it to a private insurance company. First of all, and as a cost from simulation, it will be less, but the losses from the disasters will be much smaller in this way. For everything, then, we want to ask you, Minister, what you intend to do for the permanentization of security personnel, which for many years have been offering services at the University of Crete - four years as I have told you - and which meet essential needs for his protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u38	Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, thank you very much for the question and I also thank you for your understanding of the postponement of this particular question. Here I want to put the legal elements. We refer to Article 63 of L.4430 of 2016, which enabled all ministries' central and decentralised and generally all ministries' services, public and private legal persons and everything supervised by ministries for the cleaning needs of their buildings as well as the needs of focusing, feeding and safeguarding them - it is our case - to conclude individual works contracts for a certain project as excellent arrangements. In fact, it was established that these exceptional arrangements could be applied until 31 December 2019. Subsequently, in 2018 under Law 4574 of that year, it was determined that those entities, by decision of the single collective body of their administration, may extend the individual fixed-term contracts concluded, provided that the conditions laid down in that Article continue to be met. Under these provisions, therefore, the University of Crete had concluded an IMP contract with a staff of twenty persons for Rethymnon and Heraklion. The staff concerned have, as rightly stated, been requested and won the provisional order according to which the University of Crete is obliged to deal with them until the adoption of the interim measures, which have been designated to be decided within September 2021. What are you asking us now? You are actually asking us to transform contracts with a fixed-term employment relationship into contracts of private law without an indefinite duration. However, what you are saying expressly contradicts Article 103 of the Constitution of the country, in which all laws have to be adapted. I would remind you that it is stated that ‘no official may be appointed to an organisational position which is not regulated - exceptions may be provided for by a special law -...’ and furthermore, ‘it is prohibited to permanentise staff under the first subparagraph or to convert contracts into an indefinite period. The prohibitions laid down in that paragraph shall also apply to those employed under a contract of employment.’ [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Therefore, according to this article of the Constitution, contracts between institutions and persons recruited for a limited period do not cover a single contract of dependent employment, because they are not submitted in the performance of their work to a particular commitment and dependency by the institutions, even if they are made on a repeated basis. I shall, however, continue in my dentext to complete the debate and give the full picture. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synthrakis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u41	First of all, Minister, we are not just asking for it - we agree, of course - but all the workers themselves are asking for it. They call on the workers themselves not to get fired, not to get into the unemployed' army and to be permanent. I would clarify why you said that we are asking. It is true that we are also asking for it, but I would like to say that the workers themselves, the institutions, the university community, are all asking for it. Furthermore, you have constantly invoked and invoked, as did SYRIZA earlier, and as all parties do, Article 103 of the Constitution. The point is that in the Review, all together, you did not adopt the JRC's proposal, which was put in here, in order to abolish, lift, Article 103 of the Constitution that puts such obstacles and obstacles to the permanentisation of workers. Why didn't you? Do you invoke it as an article in the Constitution because of which you cannot take a step forward and permanentize the workers, or why do you agree? You obviously agree, because you voted for it, you did not adopt the proposal of the JRC. I'm saying this so we don't hide behind our finger. This is a direction of the European Union. It is reasonable that the government and the other parties should serve over time the European Union's policies on the recycling of unemployment - to say that it is not bad - but that leads to the hostage of the workers, violates the right to permanent and stable work, blocks all the needs of building up structures and services not only in universities, but also in hospitals, in schools, in public services, and goes by saying. I think it is really contradictory on the one hand that the government is talking about allegedly lawlessness at universities - your argument I am trying to say - and on the other hand, to weaken the protection of university spaces. So, another thing you're pursuing, Minister. Your obsession, your choice - well, we say for simulation - not even renew them is to get rid of university guards. That's where the work goes. It is related to the implementation of reactionary arrangements to enhance the safety of universities and academic freedom, which includes the establishment of a university protection team consisting of a thousand police officers under EL.AS. Isn't that right? What other explanation can someone give? In these two years 2020-2021 - what is running, that is - you have given over EUR 60 million for recruitment of five hundred special guards, for a thousand police officers who will be serving the university police, for upgrading equipment, for purchasing vehicles, for chemical tear gas, to upgrade the police's capacity in the repression that is and its role. Of course, it's for free trouble, because the law of Keramea - Chrysochoidis will be left on paper anyway. In other words, it has been depressed in the consciousness of the university community and the people. There's another side. You do so under conditions of pandemic, quarantine. In other words, while the universities have been closed for about a year and a half, two and a half, the government instead of dealing with how students will safely return to the amphitheaters, how they will carry on their work, how the police will get in, how they can get in, how they can get in, how they can get in with entry cards, cameras, etc. Universities as a field of knowledge and freedom of expression cannot be converted into areas of law and order. It took our ears too, of course, and I do not know whether it is true and I would like you to confirm it or reject it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Synatiakis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u43	I shall conclude, Mr President. In cooperation with the Ministry of Education, you ask fanatics to apply so that after their term of office they can be recruited to the university police. We'd say if that's the case, it's taken off.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u44	Do you repeat it because I didn't understand it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u45	You get it, but you're too heavy. He's got our ears, I'm not saying that we say that your government, in cooperation with the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, is preparing to ask for fans who finish their term of office, in the context of tackling unemployment, to apply so that after their term of office they can be recruited to the university police. I want you to tell us a few words about this. It's your thing. In our view, it would be reasonable and necessary for the government to listen to the struggles of thousands of students, of workers, and for health protocols to ensure the safety of educational and educational services at the university, that the necessary permanent recruitment of staff be carried out between them and the guardians of the universities, so as to meet the health requirements of the facilities and infrastructure. This is your role as Minister. That is what you must do in order to solve this problem. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u46	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u47	Mr President, the issue of civil servants and, more generally, of work is a very serious and delicate issue, because it concerns people's lives, it concerns the future of people and we must approach it with great respect. To tell the House that somewhere I heard fantasies - says - after the end of their term of office will be recruited to university police, it refers to times before World War II. So let's just come to today. What's the logic behind that? You imply that because the phantoms are militarized - so because they are militarized they are on the side of the government that is hard and militarized and wants repression, etc. - That's why they'll be hired. The Greek Army is going to the children of all the Greek people, regardless of the party that their own parents vote for. It's funny to say and talk about things like that. I mean, it's about other times. Then that you could choose your own people - not everyone was going to the army, they were paid from every village, and there you could choose your own - to make them roomkeepers after. It's eighty, ninety years back. Is it possible to discuss these things in the House today? The same applies to what you mentioned in relation to the four hundred special guards - parentheses: four hundred have been hired, not a thousand - and to the subject of repression. We're reporting to the police on 1974 terms. Some time ago a policeman approached me when I was leaving the House and said: "Mr. Syrgos was hired to the Greek Police in the middle of 1990. I had nothing to do with the junta, I wasn't even born. What do they say to me?’ Is it possible to refer to the terms of the dictatorship today? Police are a child of democracy. What can I say? I come to the point we are discussing. The critical point...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u48	It has nothing to do with what we have said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u49	Now you're not telling me that the spectators will be hired to the university police after their term of office? Does he have any more hires? The university police are hired via an AAP.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u50	I'm talking about the last one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u51	As for the four hundred special guards, referring to the repressive capacity, I repeat that the police have been democratic since 1974. It is subject to the rules of the Constitution and of the laws. Don't look back in the '74s period. Now, as far as this is concerned, what concerns us is extremely serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u52	It's not a repressive mechanism, is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u53	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u54	To the same extent as in the Soviet Union.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u55	Don't get in trouble now. The positions of each party on any issues are known. Don't start now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u56	You remind me of a conversation I heard...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u57	Another policeman as a unit, as a worker and another police officer as a suppressor to guard and defend your own interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u58	Now, what do we do, Mr. Synchronism?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u59	You remind me of a debate, ladies and gentlemen, that I heard at a school a year and a half ago, in which they were serious about whether the police need or do not need a state. And your fellow believers voted that the police don't need to, like there's no police in all the countries of the world, regardless of their culture. Well, let's not get into this conversation. Let me answer the question we have. The main point is that this is where you ask us to violate Article 103 of the Constitution. In other words, to transform contracts with a fixed-term employment relationship into contracts of private law without an indefinite duration. It's forbidden by the Constitution. How do we do it? We can't break the Constitution. In addition, I note that the recruitment of permanent staff may be carried out at the request of the institution itself, in the case of the University of Crete, in the context of the annual recruitment planning, which is provided for in the provisions of Law 4765/2021 relating to the modernisation of the provisions on the IAS. Finally, especially on the subject of the University of Crete, the university itself in a document that has been filed reads: "The guarding and therefore the security of the University of Crete is an important concern and priority of the administration of the University, which is trying after the abolition of this provision - to which we referred and on the basis of which these people were recruited - to meet the need to safeguard in every legal way, for example. by recruitment of seasonal workers through AEPs, use of OADs for long-term unemployed’. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. Before we move to the last timely question, I would like to inform you that the Member of the Dodecanese of the New Democracy Mr. Ioannis Papapas is requesting a short-day leave from 5 to 9 September 21 in order to go to Milan, Italy, for family reasons. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u61	The House approved the requested permission. We are now continuing with the third timely question of a second cycle with number 998/30-8-2021 by MP I of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: "Awards of archivists - librarians for the operation of the National Library and of public libraries". The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr Zetta Macrey. Mr. Delia, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u62	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, by decision of your Ministry in July, in particular on 9 July, eighty second-graduate and secondary education were adopted for the National Library of Greece and for the public libraries in the other eighty-four extracts, i.e. a hundred sixty-five. One can think here that the extraordinary needs of the public libraries in the country have increased very much and since we are spared by so many school teachers, let us make some of them available for these needs. Things are not, of course, and I am not talking about the needs of libraries, which have been in red for years and are indeed well-established, but they are well-established, and one would say a permanent political choice not only of your own government, but also of all the previous governments, that the public libraries in the country have been operating not with the specialized permanent staff from the scientific sector of Library and Architecture, but also with posted or posted workers from other inappropriate services, without of course having any special professional relationship with this critical and important subject of libraries. One would say that this explains, since we are talking about everything here, and why the relevant questions from the Officerate are going beyond the staff issue, since they have done so too, and are standing mainly in the appointment of their boards of directors, that is to say, the administration, but at the same time, in any case. At the same time, however, where these distractions of hundreds of teachers are being seconded by the graduates of the Architecture and Library departments of course most of them remain in unemployment and are looking for a job. Mr President, forty-six public libraries operate in our country, and the twenty-nine of them have the title and function as central libraries, i.e. they have a mobile unit and separate libraries because they cover more than one regional unit. So, in these forty - six libraries, the glossy number of ten employees of whom forty - six, even half, holds a libraries degree. The question, as you can see, is automatic. What plans, if any, your Government plans to do in order to meet these organic positions and to meet the increased needs with permanent appointments of graduates of Library and Architecture for the country and for the National Library and for local central libraries and for the general archives of the state and to stop this practice with secondments from other pointless services. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u63	Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. And of course, Mr President, our government plans to inform you and what it plans to do, since at your top of the list of teachers, I would remind you that for the first time in decades, 11 000 seventeen teachers were recruited, added to the four and a half thousand teachers of special education for the first time in the year. In your question, then, I would like to tell you that as you all know and we all agree the purpose of public libraries is educational, educational, cultural and informative. The General Archives of the State, by ensuring open access to information and playing an important role in the areas of historical research, administrative information, civil service and culture in general. With the aim of achieving the proper functioning of the National Library of the Greeks, the public private and the General Archives of the State, every effort is therefore made by our Ministry to meet their needs to staff, especially of the scientific disciplines of PP librarians, librarians and archives through permanent appointments and transfers. In relation to your questions about designing vacant posts in the libraries of all the country, the National Library and the General Archives of the State, I would mention that the tripartite committee set up by the Ministerial Council Act No 33 of 2006 with its approval in 2020 approved the procedures for filling vacant posts of permanent staff as follows: In the public libraries of eight branch of librarians and six branch posts TE Librarians. In the General Archives of the State 10 Archivists' Division posts and two Division Posts of the TEs. In the National Library of Greece, four Library Division posts. In order to fill these permanent posts we are in the process of preparing the request for the post to be announced by the AACC. Also, through the single mobility system, they have been transferred to the National Library of Greece with the approval of our Ministry in 2015 officials of various specialties, of which one employee in the Librarians sector and seven employees in the respective field of TEs, public libraries in 2020 thirty-five employees of various specialties, of which two employees in the Librarians sector and six employees in the Librarians sector. Also in the first cycle of mobility in 2021, the joint ministries approved the cover for posts through transfers as follows: in the National Library of Greece five empty organic posts of the PT Librarians sector and four Librarians sector posts. In public libraries four empty PP sites of librarians and ten PE sites of librarians. A draft decision to transfer two officials to the National Library and seven to the public libraries is already being promoted for these posts. Within the framework of the annual staff recruitment planning for the year 2022, the National Library of Greece, the public libraries and the General Archives of the State have submitted their requests for empty posts. These include requests for librarians and archivists through the specific application of annual recruitment planning. It has been promoted at the Ministry of Interior by our Ministry and the approval of filling fifteen empty organic posts in the National Library, seventeen empty organic posts in the public libraries. Of these seventeen posts relate to the branches of IP and TE librarians. By adopting Law 4610/19, the provisions of which defines the new organisational structure of the General Archives of the State were restored to organic locations of key sectors for their operation, such as the positions of archives, which had been automatically abolished by application of the Law. Date of birth: 4024/2011. We are actively and consistently strengthening the planned development path of the National Library. We move on to the legal processing of the agency's submitted by the National Library, the approval of which will lead, on the one hand, to the final resolution of its staff problem with qualified staff and, on the other, to a sufficient number of graduates from the higher institutions, including the Library departments. The secondments of teachers, to which you referred, Mr Colleague, are a temporary, although a repetitive necessity, cover direct operating needs for the smooth functioning of the National Library until the organization is approved. Since 2014, the National Library has been employing forty-seven permanent officials and twenty seconded persons, and now in '21 it employs eighty-nine permanent private staff for an indefinite period and eighty a seconded person. Acknowledging the importance we have a series of actions to which I shall refer in my dentistry. Thank you for understanding and tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Delia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. However, what I have to note from the reply of the Minister is that the secondments will continue. That is not enough, in other words, these sixty announced a moment ago by the Ministry will continue. You know that's not a temporary situation, Minister. When something repeats for over 20 years, you don't call it temporary. It is the well-known word for 'neutrality', which continues as we have said by your own government. You said too many numbers, too many numbers I couldn't keep them all together. For recruitment, however, the figures for permanent staff were one-digit. It was eight, six, eight in the National Library, six in the General Archives of the State. You understand that this is not the case. They cannot develop, in fact they cannot function such important spiritual institutions. With the opportunity to say that for our party, for the JRC, the issue of the book is very high in the code of our values and so it should be for the Greek governments to take care of even more, but reality is different. Now in relation to what you said about appointments. I made a comment earlier on what teachers have left behind. Of course, teachers don't have a spare. Of course, ten and a half were appointed. But you know, Minister, and you know very well that last year, a total of fifty-two thousand educational assistants were recruited. If you add to this number all eight thousand, who applied for retirement, we go to sixty thousand. So when you appoint four and a half thousand, it means that you need at least eighty and a half thousand teachers to operate on the same terms as you did last year. Now, given the pandemic you understand what needs we're talking about. So there is normally no possibility of leaving school teachers. In any case, in order to turn the matter back, and to confirm what the President said that I am usually not abusing time, I will do everything I can, Mr President. I would like to say that those people who have diplomas of Library and Architecture, Minister, feel that they are being mocked once again. For years, of course, they have been mocked, but they are also being mocked by your own government in relation to their professional rights. I should like to say here that - he is not here a moment ago, he was the Minister responsible for higher education - in a debate on the same above - under question with him last April that we were told that a plan was being drawn up and even assured that the Agency for the Operation of the National Library of Greece is being approved and that permanent workers who will be employed for three hundred and ninety. Of these three hundred ninety places would be a hundred sixty places only for the National Library with a degree in Library and Architecture. We don't know where this is. Nothing has been heard about it. On the contrary, we see that the practice is repeated, and that is precisely what this figure means, that this number should not be covered by permanent appointments, but by the secondments. Of course, the number of extracts shows the great needs that exist anyway. In any case, however, we think you're not responding. You avoid answering or rather so that we are honest with each other you and you have confirmed it shortly before another question about the right of workers to university care. You are negative to the concept of permanent and stable work, the work of the right people in the right positions. Anyone can't work in the libraries. You understand very well why, it must have a relationship with the object, specialized, to have a degree. It is self-evident that this is the case, but you are unfortunately insisting that you operate a number of such services through the so-called mobility, which, of course, often leads to dead ends. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We invite you once more to change your Rotta. And the workers, of course, have the responsibility of organizing and claiming it to obtain these workers who have studied this subject to work on their subjects.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u67	Thank you. Madam Minister, you have the floor to close the procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Colleague, I told you that the secondments this year will take place until the administration and operation of the National Library is approved. I emphasized this in my prototype, and I repeat it, because it obviously did not hear. The one-digit numbers to which you referred if you sum up you will see that they are not as trivial as you want to present them. In the case of mobility, the travellers have had a link with the activities of libraries. So in order not to abuse my time, as soon as I can, why did you ask me in your first place what our Ministry is doing and what plans it has for libraries, that we are strengthening the objectives of public libraries, because in our own government this is a very high issue with a number of actions. Already, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Ms. Niki Kerameos, made her decision in June 1921, the General Council of Librarys. This is an advisory body at the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, which advises and recommends proposals on public libraries issues, recommends actions and operational plans to modernise and interact with citizens on the basis of current social needs, international scientific trends and technological developments in the libraries community, studies and drafts proposals covering the modernisation and upgrading of their role, the development of libraries' synergies and synergies with all types of libraries, i.e. the extension of their services to support actions with significant impact on critical social areas such as education, health, the economy, technology, demographic changes in the environment and the development of a single libraries system and its interaction with other organisations and users communities. The General Council includes prominent personalities, academics and persons with huge experience and positions of responsibility in the community of public libraries. As part of the digital transformation of the national libraries network, our Ministry has obtained approval from the Recovery Fund of a great and important project amounting to 10.3m euros, which concerns the upgrading not only of the National Library, but also of the rest of the libraries under the supervision of our Ministry. The project will include a group of actions such as the collaborative library system, automation of borrowing procedures, the digital system of the National Library, the development of digital content, the digital collection maintenance system and the development of audio and electronic books. Finally, the General Archives of the State and the Central Office and Regional Archives have before them a promising and encouraging future, with guaranteed funding from the Recovery Fund of EUR 18.8 million to be transformed. Equipment, software, support services and digitalisation of archives are provided. This is a huge leap that contributes to the institutional shielding of the memory of the state, the facilitation of our citizens and researchers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u69	Ladies and gentlemen, a debate on the topical and urgent questions has been concluded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Unique discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: "Reform of expulsion and return procedures for citizens of third countries, attracting investors and digital nomads, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum and the Ministry of Civil Protection". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting of 26 August 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving a speaker from each Parliamentary Group and a 12-member circle of speakers with the following ratio: Five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the Communist Party of Greece, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. With teleconferencing service and physically present, a 12-mile circle of speakers is also proposed with the same ratio. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u71	The House has agreed. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Stavros Keletsis, has the floor for 15 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u72	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the dramatic events in Afghanistan, as they have evolved, and the explosion of escaping flows from the country expected once again showed that the refugee - immigration is a major international problem that every time is rekindled and extremisms with various causes and circumstances. Wars such as the one in Syria, authoritarian regimes, the search for better living conditions are some of the causes of the phenomenon. Greece, unfortunately, because of its geographical position, is at the forefront of the problem. On the one hand, we are a country close to the flammable zone, near the field where events take place. On the other hand, we are the European Union's eastern border, a place that is the enthusiastic desire and the ultimate aim of migrants. Furthermore, Turkey's attitude, which seeks to exploit, indulge in and work on the problem, prolongs it and makes it even more acid for us. The events of March 2020 that took place on our land borders in the Castanes of Evros proved that, once Turkey is moving on to the raw and uncovered exploitation and operation of immigration, Greece must have a plan, organisation and preparedness, but also has those forces and instruments on a permanent basis to deal both with land and with the sea as well as with any threat of organised and mass breaches of the country's borders and security. In March 2020, Greece demonstrated its determination and strength to defend the country's integrity and security. Thanks to the immediate and decisive reaction of the Greek Government and the forces responsible for ensuring the integrity of the country, we succeeded and surprised those who tried to surprise us and believed that we would be taken to sleep. And I want from here, from this official Step of the House, once again to express my congratulations to the officers of men and women who have given that battle, our army, the border, police and firefighting, all those who have contributed to the positive outcome of that battle, that hybrid war. But also to the forces of the port, who on a daily basis give the battle to our maritime borders. The battle in the Castanes in 2020, which we all fought together, mainly had the unequivocal support of the society and the citizens of Evros, who stood by every means at the side of the forces they were attempting. It is true that those events in March 2020 hit the bell and they were alarming. Since then, the country has acquired for the first time a well-designed and organised immigration policy, the results of which have already begun to appear. We have already made considerable progress in strengthening and upgrading the instruments, the logistics infrastructure and human resources. The fence, for which such reaction originally had been from certain political forces and groups, was extended by twenty-seven kilometers along the land borders, and the former part of the fence was strengthened and upgraded, so that today the fence is growing over forty kilometers. I must say here, because the events that I experienced at that time very closely as Evros' MEP, that the current fence played a very important role in having this result that we had. He had a tremendously helpful role in the struggle of human powers, in uniform forces. These days have also begun the operation of the new automated border monitoring system. Moreover, more than a thousand million new border guards were trained and thrown into the battle against border guards, and additional new border guards and port officials are expected to be recruited for both land and sea borders. This move is necessary because of the upturn expected due to the Afghan but also to the influxes that have been observed lately on the part of the Greek-Bulgarian border, which must concern us. I repeat again. For the first time the country now has a well-designed, targeted immigration policy. Her results are now visible. According to official July figures, arrival flows in the first seven months of 2021 show a 60% reduction compared to the first seven months of 2020. In the islands the decline is even higher, 84%. After systematic efforts by the relevant Ministry and its services in this seven-month period, seven thousand fourteen people left for either Europe or third countries through the mechanisms of return control, deportation and relocation. In the structures of the Ministry of Migration in July 2021, there are forty - six thousand three hundred eighty people, while last year there were eighty-five thousand sixteen eighteen, a 50% reduction. However, the uncertainties of the Asylum Service and the Appeals Authority to a first and second degree have recorded a 51% reduction. All of these numbers, from each side, show that the government and that ministry, together with the co-responsible ministries, have a plan, they do work and the results now appear. As I said at the beginning of my speech, the migration problem, however, is a constant problem, which is rekindled according to international events and developments in flammable zones, as now in Afghanistan. We must therefore be vigilant and prepared not to be calm. This logic also serves this bill, because we must at the same time, along with the armouring of instruments, logistics and human resources, also shield the country from institutional and legal, with respect always to human rights and international conditions that are fully consistent with Greek cultural values and Christian values, Greek education and Greek culture. We institutionally strengthen our 'armostat', by better organising the procedures for managing the problem, by closing any possible loopholes in the exercise of rights and paradoxical tactics by individuals or groups in order in practice to cancel the return and deportation procedure or delay it significantly. The message we send out with this bill is clear: only those who strictly fulfil the conditions that international conditions provide will remain in the country. All the others, with clear and fair procedures, must take the way back as soon as possible. The country is not a clear vine. In this context, therefore, in the First Chapter of the Law, we amend Law 3386/2005 on expulsions and Law 3907/2011 on returns and clarify that for illegally deported and deported foreigners the expulsion procedures, as laid down in Law 3386/2005 and not the return procedures, are applied to illegally deported persons. The expulsion decision shall be exclusively the responsibility of the police and shall be issued directly in cases where a foreigner does not apply for asylum or his request to be rejected. On the other hand, the refund for third-country nationals is ordered by the competent authorities of asylum and immigration. The framework of the procedure for granting voluntary departure to third-country nationals whose residence in the country has been declared illegal shall be changed. Thirty to twenty-five days shorter. Provision is made for cases in which the period of voluntary departure is not granted and for the obligation to introduce the prior recommendation of the competent police authorities to the competent authority which decides whether the third-country national constitutes a risk to public policy and security or where there is a risk of evasion. In Article 5, the appeals and aids against decisions of refunds shall be determined in order to ensure that they are exercised within an exclusive period of time and to avoid any abuse of them and any behaviour aimed at extending the stay or even cancelling the refund while the stay has already been decided to be illegal. The decision-making process shall be modernised by introducing the digital performance and information capability and the authorities while notifying the police. Chapter 2 is a very important chapter concerning legal immigration. Here we amend the Code of Immigration, i.e. Law 4251/2014. This chapter is very important because it has a huge economic dimension, with results in the country's economy. First of all, Article 10 introduces the concept of investment mobility with a view to attracting investors and investment. The provisions of the bill make it easier for investors who have already come to the country to make use of funds already imported, moving to another investment category without losing the right to legal distribution for a certain period of time. This is a huge facility that will create an investment environment that can bring more investment to the country. Arrangements for attracting digital nomads shall be introduced in Article 11. Here we can say that we first come because the concept of digital nomads is something new, it's something modern in the economy. These are those business executives who provide distance work to their company, to work in which they work, to stay in another country, in this regard we are trying to attract them to Greece, together with their relatives, their families, their partners. This provides for a new type of national visa for up to 12 months and is provided for in the provisions and for an extension. The third Chapter incorporates a provision of a European Union non-asylum Directive where the applicant is considered to constitute a risk to national security due to its final conviction for specific offences. This condition was taken into account until now only in view of the renewal or withdrawal of asylum. It will now be taken into account by the original application. Article 21 provides that only official documents indicating the full date of birth and not any private document or other document shall be taken into account in order to address phenomena of the use of false documents showing false birth dates in order for the individual to be more favourable to the category of unaccompanied minors. Article 23 provides for an insane 100 euros for each subsequent application after the first international protection. We are doing so precisely so that there is no misuse of this possibility which has been observed in practice by many who are unfounded in submitting applications for rescheduling, of course, clearly the delay, the cancellation of the refund procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. In Article 19, we provide for medical treatment needs for unaccompanied minors whose application has already been rejected, but they are still being returned. Finally, Article 40 lays down the conditions for the activities of voluntary organisations and NGOs in cases dealt with by the Hellenic Coast Guard, in order to avoid accidents and ensure the effectiveness of the forces they are attempting. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate in the committee there were objections from both the right and the left. This means, in my view, that we are on the right path, on the right road. This means that the provisions of this bill have a measure and a balance. The government, in fact, creates a new more stringent framework for managing immigration. However, this is our objective - it is a declared objective, we do not hide it - with respect for human rights, but at the same time by closing all the windows and back doors which enable the provisions currently in force by individuals or groups to be misused to date in order to exploit existing legal gaps. So, with this bill, we are shielding, as I have said, the country's institutions, and I am therefore calling on you to vote on this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u73	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Augias, who wants to support an amendment which he has tabled, has the House agreed and the rapporteurs agreed to so that we can move forward and ask questions, because he has informed me that he will then have to leave. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u74	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all I would like to thank the Minister and the Bureau for giving me this opportunity to defend the amendments we have tabled earlier because I have to go outside Athens. We are now bringing about a debate and a vote on five amendments relating to the area of sport, which need to be urgently addressed because of the deadlines that exist. With the first amendment, Articles 1 to 8, we deal with doping issues. Basically, these are legislative improvements to Law 4791/2021 in order to fully harmonise the Greek legal order with our country's international obligations and commitments on the issues of doping. With these provisions we fully incorporate the anti-doping regulations which we introduced into the Greek legal order with Law No.4791/2021, with the new Anti-Doping Code of the World Anti-Doping Organization, WADA. As I have said, it is about legislative improvements and it is not about introducing new provisions. The second amendment - Article 9 - extends to sports clubs in order to receive special athletic recognition and to register in the Electronic Register of Sports Clubs of the General Secretariat of Sports Secretary of the Ministry of Sports. The period laid down in Article 30 of Law 4726/2020 is therefore extended. In particular, it is laid down that sports clubs which are registered in a sports association or federation at the time of the entry into force of Law 4726/2020 but which have not received the special athletic recognition and have therefore not been registered in the Electronic Register of Sports Associations of the Ministry of Sports at the latest by 31 July 2022, otherwise they shall be automatically deleted from the register of their federation. At the same time, we clarify that these clubs can participate in the racing activities of the respective association or federation other than the pan-Hellenic Games and Championships or the final phases of the Pan-Hellenic Games and Championships up to 31 July 2022, that is to say, for the completion of the current season until the next summer. The aim of this regulation, given the current conditions with the state of pandemic and the many firefighting regions of our country, is to further facilitate sports clubs so that they can successfully complete the process of obtaining special sporting recognition and then register them in the Electronic Register of Sports Associations and also be financially strengthened. Now, with the third and fourth amendments - Articles 10 and 11 - an extension is granted to sports clubs that do not bear a special athletic recognition and are therefore not registered in the Electronic Register of Sports Associations of the Ministry of Sports, in order to use sports facilities belonging to the Ministry of Sports, Public or Private Law Sports, or to grades I and II. The proposed provision defines 1 August 2022 as the date of entry into force of paragraph 2 of Article 66 of Law 4735/2020 and paragraph 4 of Article 8 of Law 2725/1999, as amended by Article 41 of Law 4809/2021. In particular, as from 1 August 2022 and not from now on, as would be the case, a sports club that does not bear the special athletic recognition and has not been registered in the Electronic Register of Sports Associations referred to in Article 142 of Law No 4714/20 shall cease to be able to use sports facilities belonging to persons supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports legal persons under private law or to grades A and B. In fact, we are giving an eleven-month extension to sports clubs that have not yet completed the procedures provided for in order to comply with the provisions of sport legislation and to be legalised, to be housed. With the extensions we give to sports clubs with the previous articles, we put more flexible time limits on the compliance of clubs with the specific provisions of sport legislation and form tools for the effective implementation of these regulations. The aim was and remains to have a clear landscape in Greek sport and with transparency to be able to strengthen the legitimate and active amateur sports clubs, to be classed in all sports, to participate without stress our athletes, to trust their parents in sports clubs that have the legitimate conditions and operate properly. Finally, with the fifth amendment - Article 12 - the Organizing Committee on Motor Sports is provisionally granted for one month the use of the 'Pan-linium Lamia Report', which will host the service park and the actions of the 'EKO Rally Acropolis 2021'. In accordance with paragraph 1 of Article 65 of Law 4605/2019 the legal person governed by public law ‘Pan-Hellenic Lamia Report’, which is based in Lamia and supervised by the Minister of Development, is repealed by the publication of the decision of the Development and Finance Ministers referred to in paragraph 6 of that Article. However, until the publication of this decision, the legal person governed by public law ‘Lamia Panhellenic Report’ continues to operate in the performance of its purposes. This Decision has so far not been adopted. Furthermore, the recommendation of the "PEL - Development S.A." body has not been finalised. The ETAs, which automatically enters into all the rights, obligations and any of the responsibilities which exist when the legal person ‘Lamia Panhellenic Report’ is abolished. The problem that has arisen is that, despite the fact that the legal person governed by public law ‘Lamas Pan-Hellenic Report’ is considered to continue to operate, there is no administration for the management of the cases and for its representation. In order to address this issue, especially for the needs of the organisation of the race 'EKO Rally Acropolis 2021', it is granted without consideration, for a very limited, specific, period of time, namely 20-8-2021 to 20-9-2021, to the Organizing Committee of Motor Sports Organizations, the use of the premises of the legal person specifically for the purposes of organising international car racing under the name 'EKO Rally Acropolis 2021'. The aim of this arrangement is the successful, but also the safe organization of the struggle "EKO Rally Acropolis 2021", a key point of which is the legitimate concession of the facilities of the Pan-Hellenic Lamia exhibition, which will host the main program of the race. Ladies and gentlemen, all five of these provisions aim to support and strengthen sport and athletes. We appall the needs of sport, sports operators, sports families, we give immediate solutions and we act as guarantors of their uninterrupted operation and strengthening. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u76	Here, Mrs. Pulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, while you legislated three months ago, you did not include this mini-legislative bill you are tabling today in the form of an amendment. Once again, you have lost three deadlines given to you by 'WADA' and exposed our country internationally. You had other jobs at that time, of course, for cooking, I would say, in the administrations of the federations. The CCCTB "Publicity" exposes you, because you did not manage within two years nor hire the necessary staff, nor do you make the supply of the equipment necessary. Mr President, as far as the articles are concerned, we will study them and then place them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u78	Is there another colleague who would like to say something before we hang up with the Minister? There isn't. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u79	As regards what Mr SYRIZA said, I must say: you are not aware and I am glad to say - because you have said inaccurate - if you wish, you are asking a question to come and discuss exactly the issues you mentioned earlier, because it is not the way you know it. On 14 September the WADA Committee on the Compliance of WADA meets for the last time and there our country will be present, with all the obligations that we have, unfortunately, inherited, not created. So we are at your disposal to answer all the points you have raised at another time and not, of course, at the expense of the bill which is scheduled to be discussed today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u80	To continue now with the rapporteur of SYRIZA Mr. Georgios Psychogios. Here, Mr. Psychoyte, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam and Minister, I will begin by expressing the last good-bye to the great, the world's Mickey Theodorakis, a man who has marked and engraved our people deep. And by the way, because it has a reference to both my region and Brahati, the relevant ministries and we and the self-government must take measures and support the Mickey Theodorakis theatre, which has been plundered for years. It is a disgrace and it is a minimum obligation to restore it and deliver it to its local society and culture. I'm getting to the point of the bill. We have discussed several days in the relevant committees. What lies above and beyond the debate is Afghanistan, a geopolitical issue first and foremost and then a refugee issue. Minister, we were worried about the information you have given us, saying that Europe insists on the logic that it will not accept anyone, that Greece will have to do this and that we are happy about it. It is worth wondering that you are not asking for at least an extraordinary meeting of the European Union and the UN to discuss resettlements with safe passages, especially for the most vulnerable at the beginning and the rest of the aftermath. And we're not talking about 38 million that you said in a TV interview. We're not ignorant, you're not addressing ignorants. We are talking about people displaced by an inhumane regime. And we should have done this already like a country. It is in the interests of Greece and Europe and the people. You have said nothing about suspending returns to Afghanistan, while other countries such as Germany and the Netherlands have explicitly done so. We are also not talking about the collective management of the people who will arrive here. Within the European Union's immigration pact, Greece must provide - and we are here and we support it - for collective management, compulsory solidarity and burden-sharing in all countries and Member States with sanctions for those who do not do so and not do closed structures - guards on the islands and on Evros and represent the crocodile of Europe that all these people are staying here. We should also look at the issue of the common ministerial decision in another way for Turkey's safe third country, which obviously works for the refugee. But we cannot do the same, in the same way, in response to Erdogan's logic and practices. He'll lock other people in here, rejecting their applications as unacceptable before he gets to the point. And don't tell me that Geneva is being paid when you get an application inadmissible before you even get into the personalised crisis. These are incomprehensible things. So that's gonna get more people trapped here, too. No front, no back! So we are in a situation where - I repeat - all the government does is build closed structures - prisons where all those who enter the country, new entrants will be prisoners with what this entails both for the local communities and for the image of the country. You bring a bill in which you say that the rule of law is a force for the country, but it is torpedoed once again after several years and your previous speeches. He's doing a scorching day, deadlines, rights and procedures that no one has. It is barely aimed at one - I said - conservative and far-right audience and has absolutely no logic in the field. After all, we also see the events that happened last time on rocky islands with people for one day there who are there until they go to get them the Port for Kos or the events that occur in Kythira and have not given a serious answer from the Ministry of Shipping about what is going on, where these people go and whether they are supported until they go to structures. So within it all came and the bodies that asked you, denouncing much of the bill, to make some interventions, some corrections, to withdraw provisions. You express your own laws with a framework sufficient for returns and expulsions. And today we read the following - which I make in the Minutes - a statement by the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe this morning, which asks you to bring this bill into line with the minimum guarantees of international law, the European law which has to do with returns and rescue at sea, another 'attack' within the Council of Europe's introductory words. When we were there, we were proud to see progress in rights in the country, in areas that had years to come, and now we are the 'black sheep' and we are constantly accepting these criticisms. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Georgios Psychogios, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] He's asking you to withdraw the bill. This is very serious. You have to answer. You have done nothing to change some provisions or withdraw them. It provides for a tacit rejection in case there is a request for voluntary departure from the administration. He has to retire. Paradoxically either the third or the fourth request for asylum for international protection is unacceptable. It doesn't matter if it's a third or a fourth. It's a request for international protection. We know that a second opportunity was clearly foreseen with strict conditions with the circular of 18. In the exceptional reasons you abolish it, regardless of whether you say there is an opportunity with the immigration code. And get people to the service. I don't disagree that people work too much there. But take people, not remove the provisions. As far as the administration of the Ministry is concerned. There's no way the U.S.S.A. can't be made with uniforms. How do we do it? The uniforms can help with synergies and actions, but they cannot undertake such neural services that they want and knowledge of the field. We also told you to hire people. We have said this from the outset almost all the parties, with notices from the ADP that you abolished, with posters who have filled all the services, with millions of commissions. Focus on serving the ministry and strengthening. Do not privatize the Ministry and the services. With regard to the 13a mistress, we said that this was what wanted an improvement and an integrated wording. That doesn't mean to abolish it. We will also see the amendment that you have put forward. But if you leave it as it is, with the amendment in fact, what you are doing is to legalise 'Muslims'. Because it was the only disgusting thing there was to secure someone's insurance and go to work visible. Humanitarian reasons may not exist as a pretext for people who have specific conditions, problems, family issues or others that are happening in their homeland following the asylum application. It can also happen after the application. So all these are issues together with the - as I said - economic procedures, the recent framework agreement. We have no objection to the principle as a framework agreement. But we have an objection to the cost, concentration and photography of few and strong sectors and the devaluation of local societies and economies. All this composes a reality together with the article on rescue at sea, which we analysed. You're not withdrawing it. There is a framework, which is why the framework is needed. But it applies. Port has the first word at all times. Check those who don't do their job. We did it, too. And do not jeopardise still sovereign rights or - to say something further - you also disappear from some who are in the field and are obliged to save individuals, shipowners, and others, as the Law of the Sea and humanity and certain witnesses of other practices are denounced to us. That is what he said - you know who - Mr Jason Apostolopoulos, who has recently been cut off by the honour of the President of the Republic and some of your officials are still very pleased about this. He's a rescuer of unknown prestige. He wasn't a man who used the procedures. He's shown years on his field of action. We also want these organisations, which help the state where necessary, not replace it. In fact, there is a post which says that the European Commission is thinking of cutting funds on the Greek coastguard. We want you to respond to that in order to clarify it. I'm not tabling it in the Minutes. But I want you to clarify that. There is a post that says that the Greek coastguard is being cut off by the European Commission because of these practices. We're talking about 15.8 million. What's wrong with that? I'm on it. You are talking about a strict and fair policy on refugee immigration. Here fair policy would be rights and obligations for everyone, obviously, such as for all citizens, and a balance of rights with local communities. That means fair policy and proper policy. It seems, however, that your own Members do not participate in the bill. There's no presence. He didn't speak almost anyone in the committees. They don't support it. These are issues that you're trying to hide with the help of the media down the carpet. And cultivate myths around them. The decongestion of the islands: Minister, all you have done in the past is to plan - as I have said before - closed structures - prisons which will gather thousands of people there. So the fact that the islands are decongested is something that, on the one hand, was self-evident from the start and you did not do so and on the other hand it is a fact that the people who are there and the new entrants will be transferred to huge camps, a ghetto of thousands of people. You also talk about returns and deportations with numbers. Do you have to take a little notice of this and finally submit us data and data to see really is the reason for not deportation or returning the abusive exercise of rights? It is not and it is not the returns and deportations that are very little, anyway, from our mechanisms, our administration and the attitude of third countries. And this is also evidenced by the evidence I brought from Prokeca Corinth. Even voluntary returns are a few few few dozens per month. So don't use the argument, because it's not. We have heard about the national accession strategy for the State Secretary. We're waiting to see her. Of course we've seen your samples. You have dismantled almost everything that we have done in areas such as education, work, culture, sport and their people have been closed down to structures, invisible and without any possibility of joining. In any case, we will see it, but we are very cautious. You also spoke of the European tactics and European practice of SYRIZA in previous years, when we had alliances with the countries of the South, a block of the countries of the first line and the first reception, which was pressing countries that are now, at the moment, ruling right parties along with the far right. And they create the main problem for you to pass the proportional distribution and you do not say a word. We also managed relocations, even limited. Relocations means relocation and that's what we need to ask again. We also achieved family reunions and voluntary returns. We called for a European mechanism for this, but also for a strategy that showed that Greece and its people, while respecting international law, the Law of the Sea and humanity, have every right to come out and ask for solidarity and assistance from its partners everywhere. And that may have had a limited effect, but it worked. Now, with the logic of shield and crocodile, we have the opposite results. So that there can be a modern democratic society, as we imagine it, we tell you that what you bring back will be reprinted, we will be abolished when we arrive. Because it makes no sense, they are unacceptable and they expose the country and we will be condemned for that. He can't have grey zones and rule out and create invisible people. It's not cutting days, it's human lives from behind, which we need to see what we're going to do. They must have access to certain basic rights, to complete their procedures, to stay here, to go to Europe, to go back and forth, but to do as they should, legally, organised and humane. Not that way. We have therefore said that we are voting against the principle and we are voting against the majority of the articles, except for some positive provisions. I mention, for example, the reinstatement of medical care for the time you cut it, when the first thing you did was to abolish the Ministry when you went out with AMCA. Now bring it back for the six months that there was a gap. It is also a good year for the duration of the refugee issue, which was six months and which were not able to complete the proceedings. The coexistence pact for the families of refugees, but also for the digital nomads, which in any case needs improvements and modifications, is in a positive direction. So these provisions are self-evident. It is obviously not enough, in a general context that I said before a reasonable gray, a reasonable deterrence, without any result and without any strategy for refugee - immigration, whether for refugees or for legal immigrants who are in the country and are several hundred thousand. Of course they were self-evident, we claimed them, and that is why there are few positive moves. For the amendments, we will see them. One of these concerns the payment of debts by the Ministry which are due, so there are also positive points there. We'll see the other one. We'll be placed then. They've been here for the last minute. You had time to bring them in a lot sooner. As for the amendment by the Ministry of Health, our colleagues and our parliamentary representative will speak. Article 3 forms part of the logic of the unconditional delivery of public neural services to private individuals, with incalculable consequences, and the integration of PPPs into the health sector. It shows the impasse of the government, which apparently believed that by threatening the suspension it would comply with the anti-vaccinating sanitary conditions, while SYRIZA, who at the outset said that this authoritarian option would cause functional blackouts to the health system. In fact, with a new Minister, Mr Plearis, who had been placed on the vaccines a few years ago, but also for refugees and immigrants, has said things that only come into the far right and are not honouring a rule of law at the moment. The amendment by the Ministry of Sports was also referred to by our parliamentary representative. It is at least challenging to have legislated three months and not to have incorporated the basics for the functioning of the ESRB. You come and do it now with a mini-legislative bill, which shows both your legislative tactics and your organization outwards, the state of excellence and excellence, which also exposes the country here. I close, Mr President, by saying that we know very well that there were over the years and our compatriots who had to become refugees or immigrants. We've been in this position. We also know that modern democratic societies consider wealth for the insurance funds, for everyday life and everything, for the coexistence of people, as is done to some extent, in Greece, and it is profit. We must see it as such and not as a threat. Finally, you should know that racism, as an old slogan says, is hate what you are not. And I say this not only for you, I say this for those who adopt such a sensible, totally unacceptable, inhuman and deadlocked, and who SYRIZA, along with the parties, the left and the progressive and the solidarity movement, will ensure that at least in this field it is respected precisely. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u82	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. George Kamine from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I too regret the loss of this great nature and my condolences to his family and to remind him that Mickey Theodorakis was born in Chios, in my home country and the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today comes at a critical moment. The European Union institutions are currently discussing the new asylum and immigration plan, which will be the European legislative framework for the coming years and will therefore have a decisive impact on the fates of our country on the front line. After three successive refugee crises, in the Aegean Sea that 2015 and the mildest one that followed in 2019 and in Evros in March 2020, we have now realised in that country that the refugee issue is experiencing periods of recession and outburst. Today we are living the recession. The flows from the Aegean and Evros have been radically reduced. Unfortunately, however, the returns and expulsions of irregular immigrants remain. Mr Metarakis, when he mentions the relevant figures, is abdicating the fact that 80% of the people who leave the country are Albanians and not those who have entered our eastern borders. And here is the first cover. The second element, which the Minister diligently silences, is the fact that in the next crisis Erdogan will provoke the armies of unhappy people crossing the sea, they will remain locked in the islands. That is why he is preparing the beastly structures to welcome them. It misleads the islanders with the low numbers of hospitality, when it commits not more than two hundred acres in the area "Tholos" of Chios. And because of course the Hie People are not naive, he has managed to turn them all against him. Third misunderstanding, this is about the people of Evros. With a simple provision in Article 29 of this bill, the closed controlled structures of the islands, as they have so far, are transformed into 'closed controlled structures'. The 'terrestrial' has disappeared, in order not to smell it, to be able to build a structure on the land borders with Turkey as well. In other words, today’s structure at Evros Prison can well be transformed into a structure that will host people for months or even years. Has the rapporteur of the New Democracy heard this? So today is the government actually proposing to create closed control structures in Evros? And if he knows, has he told his neighbors? The fourth misunderstanding concerns the wider public. Does anyone think that the introduction of certain provisions to the strictest extent against immigrants will solve the problem of illegal immigration in the country? You come and shorten a few deadlines and put in procedural obstacles. But haven't you learned anything from the past? Thirty years now, the Greek state has been pretending to shorten, for example, the deadline for the renewal of the foreign residence permit and he has lost the deadline, then he is illegal and will be forced to leave the country. Swinging! Seriously, have you seen a lot of people leave like this? Well, I don't. You misled public opinion and you are going right to the footsteps of the failed immigration policy - if you can say so - of the Greek state in the 1990s and 2000s, that is, when the conditions for the legalisation of foreigners became increasingly stricter than the governments of the New Democracy, therefore constantly deducting the legality of foreigners, but not leaving the country. So what did you do? To show public opinion that we are strict on immigration issues, but the only result was to turn lawmakers into illegal people. So we have created armies of people without papers, but who have remained or remain in the country in a state of lasting uncertainty, with the result that undeclared work, crime, exploitation and, of course, all kinds of corruption, as is the case in any case where the rules of the game are blurred or cannot be implemented. For example, in committee, we have heard from the workers' president's lips in decentralised administrations that they are under-represented and therefore unable to apply the abbreviations of the deadlines that you yourself have adopted. But this creates a gray reality, a regime or semi-legality - say as you wish - in which the black labour market and corruption thrive. Ladies and gentlemen, everything I said is happening because our country has handed over the two keys to the refugees. The first key has delivered it to the European Union, now through the European Pact on Migration and Asylum - which is under negotiation - but our partners have made it clear, to forget about any idea of relocation of asylum seekers to other European countries. They will remain in Greece, whether they are recognised as refugees or not, because even if they do not get asylum, they will not leave the country in a visible future. Turkey refuses to accept them. So is the European Union. We took it the other day with Afghanistan to the Council of Ministers. Turkey keeps the second key, since by means of a joint declaration with the European Union it maintains control of migration flows to the country, thus also monitoring returns to the islands. So Turkey is constantly blackmailing the European Union, while our country is blackmailing it with the geographical restriction, since the Mitsotakis Government continues its SYRIZA policy at this point, entangled everyone on the islands. So our country is caught in a magnificence, with one clamp, Europe that does not want anyone else, on the other hand, which if it could send everyone. What do we do? Instead of fighting the European Union together with the other first host countries to succeed in changing the joint declaration of the European Union - Turkey and revising the Dublin Regulation, we are trying to mock the puppets. Thursday attempted to mislead. The day before yesterday, Mr. Metarakis proudly told us that they left Greece twenty-five thousand foreigners for Germany and that they will not return. It has ruled out the fact that they are recognised refugees, as Mrs Vultesis admitted the next day. We know very well that these people simply travel with a three-month visa can in a European country and then return to Greece. Many, of course, illegally submit a second request for asylum to the foreign country and so far some applications have been accepted by the German courts with the humiliating reasoning that Greece does not have an accession policy. There is no guarantee, however, that in the next refugee crisis the German courts will continue with this case-law. After all, for a few months, we have had Mrs Vultesis Vultesis State Secretary for Social Integration of Recognised Refugees, who has announced to us that the accession programmes are beginning. So short psalm cross-references. The people who left will be back. Here, therefore, we must point out something much more serious than the accounting blocs with the figures which the Minister will, of course, constantly do today, get out of his sleeve. The problem is not whether a number of thousands of recognised refugees are illegally leaving the country with the implied consent of the Government, because this complicity is implied in a joint letter to the European Commission, Germany, France, the Netherlands, Luxembourg and Switzerland as a Schengen country. Mr Metakis, when I raised the problem with the Commission the day before yesterday, he made me ironic, saying: 'Mr Kamine, as if you were missing, as if you wanted them to come back'. My problem isn't that, it's something much more serious. It is the question that the credibility of the country is at stake here, because the ministers of the countries I mentioned tell us that in fact Mr Metarakis continues the policy of his predecessor, Mrs Tassia Christodoulopoulos. Do you remember her? It was an evil coincidence that I was when as mayor asked her at a meeting of the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece "Where do foreigners go?" when she told us they were leaving. He answered, 'They're gone'. With this in mind, then, the ministries have loaded the refugee situation on us by the European partners and, of course, by the fact that we do not have any reason to change policy. They see today's Minister having the same attitude, he sees himself looking elsewhere. As if the Europeans are the porcupines that can be deceived by scoundrels. I said it at the beginning of my speech. The refugee will get to know other phases of excitement and then we will really have to negotiate again. But unfortunately, our credibility at that time in Europe will be zero, just as Mr Mitaraki's predecessor was. So let the Minister not be overcrowded with the current refugee recession, because tomorrow when the new crisis starts, he will not find an interlocutor in Europe. The strong countries, like France and Germany, will have turned their backs on him, as it was taken back to Brussels the day before yesterday with the mini-crisis of Afghanistan on our heads. But then, in the great crisis that will be taking place, it will not be possible to mislead anyone, neither the inhabitants of the islands, those of Evros, the pan-Hellenic ones, nor the European partners. Mr Metarakis will at some point no longer be the Minister for Immigration and Asylum. But the islanders and the people of Evros will continue to live in their homelands and to suffer the consequences of their own inadvertent and prudence. However, most of all, the fighting of our country in the European Union. Because, ladies and gentlemen, in the big chapters of policy, we are not judged by the opportunityal measures of the current situation, but by the long-term prospects that we will secure in our national interests. We shall vote against the bill at first, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr. Kamine, for the time. We will now continue from the Communist Party of Greece with Ms Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr President. We do not think it is at all accident that this bill comes for a vote at that time. Its own statement, content and arguments accompanying it confirm that it serves a variety of objectives. First of all, they confirm that the continuous celebrations of the government and the Minister throughout the previous period to reduce the number of refugees and immigrants on the islands and on refugee and migration flows as a whole were deliberately misleading. The main objective was to hide the real reasons for this decline, as was the outbreak of pandemic itself, the intensity of border repression and so on. All of this while you know very well that international developments are fragile, that the intensification of competition, the implementation of the imperialist planning in which Greece is involved, new prepared interventions will mean a sharp increase in refugee and migration flows. So there are developments in Afghanistan themselves to disprove you and prove what you all want to hide that refugees are the victims of the wars and the interventions you yourself are creating. That is why you are now taking measures of brutal repression that are even invading basic human rights. Now, then, the government raises the tone that we will not live that we lived in 2015 with the great refugee flows. But you are doing nothing but confirming, with today's bill, the hypocritical and barbaric nature of your government's policy and the European Union's refugee and immigration issue. Of course, all the other governments supported and followed. The major intra-urban contradictions within the European Union regarding the signing of the new Immigration and Asylum Pact concern only burden sharing between Member States. That is why they are fighting, not for the very inhuman and reactionary European Union strategy that they are implementing. This draft law is, in fact, the implementation of the new pact strategy. Greece remains faithful to European commitments stemming from Dublin I and II in the role of a country guard, enclaving thousands of outdated people in the country and in the new over-structured prisons on the islands. In fact, the very provision in Article 28 of the draft law on the creation of closed controlled structures, in which special detention facilities will also operate, is the same confession of the policy of caging, ultimately turning the great words into words of air into the islanders you condemn to be permanent prisoners in the European Union's concentration camps. Finally, it confirms in the most undeniable way the limits of your urban democracy of the so-called rule of law. The falsified nature of any guarantees left to protect people's rights and freedoms is confirmed. Basic principles for the protection of refugees and immigrants are being violated harmoniously, even those contained in international conventions and in the European directives themselves. The Geneva Treaty, which has been shaped in conditions of better international relation for the peoples, with the decisive contribution of the socialist states and the Soviet Union, has been systematically devastated over the past few years. Of course, its flagrant circumvention is the European Union's agreement with Turkey itself, the same reactionary construction of the concept of safe third country bearing the signature of the previous SYRIZA government, but in fact they also enjoy the support of all of you. Therefore, the crocodile tears of SYRIZA today and of the Change Movement are at least provocative and even more dangerous is his call for a common European framework to address the expected new flows from Afghanistan. The European Union's anti-immigration policy, as you describe attributes in the last unacceptable decision of the Foreign Affairs Council, involves only the repression, caging, strengthening of FRONTEX in the name of border protection, finally leaving those who systematically cultivate deceptives for the role of the European Union and who have expectations of expressing the notorious European solidarity. It is even revealing, as was shown at the relevant hearing by the institutions, that this bill is very critically criticised by a large number of actors. Of course, once again the decorative role of the so-called institutional counterweights, the pragmatic democratic wrapping and the functioning of the independent authorities for the criticism of which even in obscure cases you simply do not care when it runs counter to your reactionary policy. All of us, therefore, and the Citizens' Counselor himself, the National Committee on Human Rights and others, not only the criticism made by the JRC, criticise and underscore the specific arrangements of the bill that the practice you are pursuing at the border with refugees and immigrants is contrary to every concept of international law for their protection. First of all, stop the smuggling, the argument about illegal or irregular incomings, as you say, which is a little far from the oldest debacle terminology of illegal immigrants and invaders. Refugees arrive at the border, without legal documents, which cannot be guaranteed at the time of their departure. This lack, namely this irregularity, arises from the reality itself, is described in the Geneva Treaty itself and is linked precisely to this refugee status. Therefore, those who arrive at the border must first pass through the reception and identification process, exercise their right to lodge an application for international protection and be given all the conditions and possibilities to exercise that right, such as interpretation, information, legal aid and others. But that is not the case. These people are arrested, detained, and then threatened with deportation. Finally, the distinction between the expulsion process and the return, not by accident, has become an exercise for difficult solvers, even for lawyers. In other words, it continues to deliberately create a gray zone where it favours the implementation of repression. In spite of the announcements, therefore, no clarification is achieved in the bill. The opposite is found in Articles 1 and 22. The confusion between the two procedures, the two parallel regimes, as it is said, are actually attempting to conceal the disgraceful practice, violent re-progressions and border repression. For many years, we have stressed that the protection of borders has nothing to do with protecting the rights of these people, who are neither invader nor threaten the country's sovereign rights. These sovereign rights are threatened and assigned with your own policy, as evidenced by the arbitrary assignment of border guards to FRONTEX's transnational military repressive mechanisms. Therefore, the declarations of respect for the principle of non-refoulement and specialisation in Article 4, after all, are enough to provoke, since no convincing response has been given to the many complaints that are even being discussed in the official bodies of the European Union. The numbers and data between the rescues and arrivals, the number of residents in the structures, deportations and returns come out. That is why it is unacceptable to regulate Article 40 for the criminalisation of sea rescue. You know very well that the position of the JRC is stable and crystallised. We call for the removal of all kinds of NGOs and individuals from issues relating to the protection of refugees and migrants. They belong and must be the sole responsibility of the state. But it is your policy, like all the previous governments, of the European Union itself, which is contrary to this. But that is another thing: criminalisation and the imposition of fines on such sensitive issues, as provided for in this article, namely the protection and rescue of human life. It's unacceptable. It does not aim for the safe rescue and control of the operations concerned, as you say. Finally, it violates basic principles of the law of the sea, and in the end it will also turn to the detriment of workers in non-governmental organisations who themselves are often faced with labour exploitation, unpaid work and the abuse of their rights and, of course, have no connection with other projects evolving from administrations. The same unacceptable and inhumane situation is the provision of the possibility of obtaining a residence permit only once. Really, what about people whose permit has expired or will end? They are people who have lived and worked in Greece for decades. You're just going to leave them at the mercy of an illegal regime without papers, vulnerable to the more heated exploitation? Even worse is the abolition of the possibility for the competent appeal committees to issue a certificate of non-removal for humanitarian reasons, now assigned to the police. This regulation also marks the strengthening of the repressive character of your policy. This will result in a series of arrangements for short-term short-term short-terms, in a logic not of quicker satisfaction or more effective consideration of these demands, but of dismantling with fast-track procedures that are almost certain, given the under-reporting and the problems that exist in the services, that they will lead to massive rejections and violations of their essential rights. The specific provisions which provide for abbreviations of all kinds of deadlines - particularly those relating to the stages, for example, the reduction of the possibility of extending the time for voluntary departure to a hundred and twenty days, from one year until now - can produce very hard and unintentional results, especially for families with school-leaving children who are not even able to complete the school year. In fact, there are also new dangerous provisions that circumvent basic safeguards, which are supposed to be protected by civil law, such as the introduction of the implied rejection of the application for an extension of the voluntary departure period, allowing the competent authorities, in essence, not to reply to the application concerned and in fact to exempt them from the task of even examining it, much more when even the notion of voluntary departure has been found to be problematic. Even the Citizens' Counselor notes the doubts as to whether such a return is genuinely voluntary and the departure is a product of free will, especially since the burdens of the non-consent of the removalist. So the core of the bill, as you are advertising, is to tighten the procedures of deportation and return. This is indeed achieved to a certain extent, but you are not actually saying what result. A characteristic expression of this strictness is the abbreviation of all kinds of deadlines for exercising rights, the imposition of new infringements, the reduction in time for the so-called voluntary departure, which is not, in the end, voluntary. At this point, let us say that we are at the outset opposed to short-term short-term periods for the exercise of procedural and other rights, particularly when it comes to the most vulnerable part of people, without access to interpretation, adequate information, the necessary legal assistance, without income and resources for their living. However, the most important thing that you are finally conscious of is that this abbreviation will not automatically bring about the possibility of deportation and return on your part. Do you doubt that the return procedures have been frozen in Turkey since March 2020? Finally, the only result that this abbreviation brings is the quickest privatization of these people, either prisoners in police stations and the new structures that you are building on the islands or illegal without documents in a daily terror and insecurity regime, vulnerable to the most brutal exploitation, without any right. We are calling here and now, in conflict with the decisions of the European Union and other urban governments, for asylum procedures to proceed in the countries of the real destination of refugees and not for them to be caught in the first host countries, without deportations, without over-structure - prisons, while ensuring all their rights to decent housing, work, education, social welfare. To protect all the rights of people living and working in the country for years, like their families and minors, to ensure that they are legally resident. Finally, what makes the unjust and classic more evident, after all, character of the bill is the unfortunate - not to say extremely challenging - of your choice to include in the same bill, which intensifies from the one the crackdown and oppression of imperialist interventions, the provisions to facilitate so-called Golden Visa for large-scale investors and "digital nomads" with the monthly income of 3,500 euros. Finally, modern Greece and the famous Greek islands offer new closed, controlled structures, condoms for the victims of imperialist interventions on the one hand, and on the other hand a beautiful resort for the wandering people of the new digital age. For all these reasons, we are voting against the bill at first, and of course we will vote against the minimum positive regulations, such as the temporary number of insurance for unaccompanied minors. But they are actually drops in the ocean and do not change the reactionary character of the bill. I shall be speaking in my dentistry about the amendments. We would like to be informed, for example, of the amendment on the legalisation of expenditure. Of course we have no objection to work that has become people who have worked to get paid. However, it cannot continue without control, since the legalisation of retrospectives and, in fact, to derogate costs, which leave many questions and various questions on how they are managed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u86	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. Antonio Mylonakis from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Solution will normally have to be proud today, because almost all parties other than the JRC - with an exception, of course, of the NGOs - come to our attention and what we have said to you, Minister, since the first day we entered the House. Two years now we have been trying to convince the Greek Parliament - because the Greek people have been convinced - that Law 4636/2019, who came to correct the bad texts supposedly of the bad ideological SYRIZA, who brought illegal immigrants and filled our country and who should be gone and should not have come, will not pay off. You were forced four more times to bring bills. ‘Reform of expulsion and return procedures for third-country citizens’. And I ask you, Minister: what is the reform of deportation and return procedures for citizens of third countries? Listen, fairy tale's got short feet. Once, twice, three times the lie, the other one knew it. Nothing has happened at all. I think it was understood by all the wings they talked to. Mr Mitsotakis, speaking the other day to Mr Sasoli - I remind the President of the European Parliament - said to him 'David, I do not agree with you, because Greece can no longer live the status of 2015'. So you see, from 2019 until today, you've done a tomba and you've come to the Greek Solution. Because when the Prime Minister of the country and President of the New Democracy like you, Mr Minister, says that 'end, I cut illegal immigration', he must tell us how. What's the problem? Because in the words we are all good, Minister. You know, we see the leak of your voters towards the Greek Solution. What we have said has come out both in the economy and in social affairs, in the field of health, in the field of education, in the field of national defence. The world comes targeted and says that the Greek Solution was and is the only party, which says what it wants to say clearly and above all logically. So each one of us here must have the courage to say how to do what we are planning. That is missing, Minister, and you must explain to us how it is to be done. It is the European Union - and Mr Psychoyou said so - that your bill should be withdrawn. Why? Speaking with Mr. Shonnas about twenty days ago, coming with the President of the Greek Solution, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, from Samos said that the draft law on the migration of the European Union has not yet been completed. So now it's happening. What does the European Union want? She's gonna get hers out first and get it printed, ready for us to do it, too? And hers, what will it be? What is Europe's logic of a united Europe towards Greece? Should Greece become a storeroom of souls, as has been done to date? Because when I had asked you and said that twenty-five thousand - I think Mr Kamine or Mr Psychoyos - are leaving Germany, Mrs Vulture said that these visa-regulated people are going three months and returning again. So we have not reduced illegal immigrants. And here is now the great thing, ladies and gentlemen. Because the lie I've told you has short feet. Greece, the Greek Government of New Democracy, by 80%, has given them asylum. I'll testify to that in the Minutes, because it's nothing of mine. Mr. Mitarakis says and says again that Greece today is not experiencing a migratory crisis. But it doesn't tell us if any of these hundreds, thousands, millions, are gone, no one knows how many they are. I have asked a question, Minister, and I would like a clear answer, namely how many immigrants are present in our country, from which countries and how many have they taken asylum. Because Europe cannot say that 80% of asylum seekers have been given asylum from the Greek Government and you can say other things. You were up the day before yesterday tweeting - and I asked you during the committees - 'we found ninety-five thousand people on the islands and now they are five'. The ninety thousand where are they? The ninety thousand have been deported? Have they returned to their homelands? Have they left abroad? And don't tell us that those who have been deported or left are third countries. Because we are telling you that 95% of them are people who headed towards Albania. They're Albanians. So what you have said so far has to be cleared up. You know, the Chiots -- you're from Chios -- the islands in general are people who are proud, upright, are people who tell reality. Why have you learned and turned around with the engagement all the time? What is the point and we are not telling the Greek Parliament the reality? What the Greek is experiencing. You have said that there are no illegal immigrants coming. The sea has indeed reduced, but not - I told you the other day - because we are better guarding our borders. Evidently, it may have improved, I do not see that guarding from sea borders has improved. But the multiplication, Mr Minister, which is carried out by land, and above all by Evros, is multiplier. Turkey and Bulgaria have entered an agreement. And I think that the Prime Minister must make this clear to the Bulgarian Prime Minister so that this agreement between Turkey and Bulgaria can be stopped. From three-internationals are constantly entering, daily two hundred, three hundred, four hundred illegal immigrants. All the Evros sites - which I will submit - say: 'Evros undisturbed vine'. All sites. There's no site that doesn't say it. ‘The invasion started in Evros’. ‘Hundreds of immigrants cross the border’. 'What does the government do?'. 'Video shock'. "Acknowledgement of a man who illegally transported immigrants from Turkey to Greece in Evros". So all these people, who are residents there, say things that don't exist? Or do they say things that they see and experience every day? So these people, who enter with the tolerance and guidance of the Bulgarians from our northern border, go to the Rhodope mountain range and from there to the Rhodope Prefecture, Evros, etc., where are they going next? Obviously towards Thessaloniki. Who controls them? Nobody. I've told you here that the truth is not hiding. If you see the multiplication of illegal immigrants or, in the view of more than EUROSTAT and the data that gives us 80% of them you have given them asylum and move freely. If you see what's going on in the center of Athens, you'll freak out. There is hardly anyone around Acharnon, Liosia and Patisias. I'm not talking about after 21:00. After 21:00 it's forbidden for men now to be released. There is hardly any Greek. They all come here. You're building huge structures on the islands. Why do you make the huge structures? Why in Samos and Chios are you taking extra land to build structures? What's going on? Two hundred acres extra for what? Did not this structure reach you in Samos where we went the other day with Kyriakos Velopoulos and left the cafas? We saw it, and we scared it. And in there of course - you say it here - there will be candles, there will be shops, there will be places of worship. That makes sense. I don't know how many places of worship you will make, because there are different religions and dogmas. There'll be banks, an entire state. In other words, every island of five is scheduled to have a town of at least five to ten thousand inhabitants. Because whoever goes will understand that this is not the structure for a thousand and a thousand five hundred people. This structure will fit over five, six thousand people. So now you're planning it. You know that the problem of the Afghan crisis will come soon and knock on our door. And what are you going to do? Along with these already existing enclaves in our homeland, you'll bring in others I don't know how many thousands. The European Union, ladies and gentlemen, must be clear that we are not fooling ourselves, and Mr Kamines has said so clearly, and he does not want any more immigrants in its own countries. So what are we gonna do? I heard the JRC saying they should share in all countries. But if the other one doesn't want to. He's closed the border for you. He's closed, he's locked his borders. What are you going to do, Minister? What are we gonna do? There's one, one and a half million, two, two more coming. Four million? And what will the Greek people do? Are you going to watch? Unless you now want to replace the Greeks with foreign countries, if you want to change everything, if from a nation you want to do it a multicultural state, which can come from where you want no papers to state whatever name he wants, whatever age he wants and settle here in Greece. Because it's no different. They don't have any IDs. That makes sense. They're gone. They might be thrown away. I don't know what they're doing. Legal papers cannot be taken from their own countries. What's gonna happen? Terrorism is here, not in our country, more generally in Europe. Europe, Minister, is afraid of a terrorist blow right now. America does the same. Other countries do the same. Are we going to have in our country people we don't even know about? Because you know in Article 1 you have added a scripture - and I have already asked you - which says that entry into the country is forbidden when there is a suspicion of participation in terrorist and extremist organisations or incomplete reasons for visiting the country or a lack of money that can justify days of stay. I didn't understand that. So they come and ask them: ‘Are you a member of a terrorist organization?’ Is there any paper coming that tells us? Other if any of the papers are coming from Interpol that he is wanted for. How do you put that? And you're gonna make fun of who? You're yourself. These things don't work out, they don't work out. Why are you doing it? Afraid. That is your problem, Minister, and I will say it straight away. That is why you have exhausted the whole arsenal - especially the Prime Minister - in the remodeling, the supposed remodeling that you did with your right hand. All three MPs and Voridis and Adoni and Pilari have first-class ministers. Why did you name them all three first? I'll tell you why. Because you're afraid of the leaks to the Greek Solution. All of them are redirected targeted to the Greek Solution. On the one hand, the state is chasing Velopoulos, dropping him fines all the time and going and making checks on his companies to smash him financially, and on the other hand, you're the ones putting the three of them supposedly in the patriotic space to block us. But people have now figured out what's going on. This is not going to happen under any circumstances and after the elections you will see the Greek Solution with a two-digit number in here and rub your eyes. NGO. How many times did we say that? I asked a question to the prosecutors. None, Minister, has been prosecuted by any criminal prosecution against any NGOs. The Communist Party is now on its way and it says that the NGOs should be removed. Yes, sir. What have you done? You are putting the game and the NGOs with the law now to cooperate with the Port and the Port to allow them to go rescue. I don't understand. Will we replace state bodies, the port with non-governmental organisations? What do you want them for, and you don't want them to be done? That's where the evil started, isn't it? You said yourself here so many times that the NGOs are responsible? To tell us what the NGOs are, Greek or international, are good NGOs, by name, one, two, three, to know who they are. Because none of the prosecutors have prosecuted any criminal prosecution, even though they had come before facts that were criminally flattered. I will also speak about the amendments in my second language, but our parliamentary representative will also speak. Well one amendment, Minister, it's the Ministry of Health to be ashamed of. He'll replace young people, he says, hire a certain amount of time for doctors nursing the people you're on the road to. I decide and I order. There's no worse thing than that. And he says, to individuals, the work that hospitals do. But all the hospitals are in trouble right now. Rethymno doesn't have an ICU, doesn't have any staff. And let me tell you something else, Minister. And I want you to say it and Mr. Ploris to hear it now that the Ministry of Health has taken over. And I tell the doctor, Mr. Kapravelos, the director of the ITH of the "Papanikolaou" Hospital, who every day goes out and whispers on TV. Since April, eighteen beds are ready, the donation of Mrs Angelopoulos of "ATHENA 2021" to the hospital "Papanikolaou". Do you know what she's been wanting since April? It takes ten doctors and forty nurses to activate. He's ready. And he comes and says, "I don't have an ID. 67% are the ICUs." And what have you done, Doctor, to get me out on the channels every day? When do you guys work? When do they work? Have them sit down and work. Eighteen beds at the hospital "Papanikolaou" are ready since April. It's September, Mrs. Vulture, and I know how sensitive you are to them. So go to work both the Ministry of Health and the hospitals. Not to go out on the channels and say, 'I don't have a IM'. There are IDs, here are eighteen beds in Thessaloniki, unusable, locked. Shame on you! He sees them. People hate them. They come out and weep that they don't have one and they don't have the other. And what have you done to have? The Greek Solution will vote against this bill, which adds nothing, does nothing and that will not be implemented, because it is a bill like all the others of the Ministry of Migration. The reason why and how it will be done is the matter. We told you how to do it. You did not implement it the first time. The fence in Evros at thirty-eight kilometers is currently costing three times over what we had made the proposal and had submitted it to your Ministry, Minister, eighty-six miles from the end of 2019. The fence shouldn't have started since the Sunny Delta. Because I know the area well. He had to start from the Carratch Triangle from the top, from the Trojan down. But other things you're doing, but we're telling you and you're trying to ball 'em and you're wrong. We tell the Greek people to wake up the 55% who sits at his house every time we have elections and does not vote, to see the programs, to see what the parties say and run in the polls. Because as we go Greece is being destroyed and completely destroyed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u88	We are now continuing with Mrs Fotini Bakadima from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers and Ministers, we are discussing another bill from the Ministry of Migration and Asylum on the reform of the procedures for expulsion and return of third-country citizens, attracting investors, but also of the digital groups and a bill that goes more generally to legislate and approach the issue of residence permits, procedures for granting international protection, consisting of seven chapters and forty-four articles. It is a bill that certainly comes to be discussed at a difficult time at a global level, a moment when a new crisis in Afghanistan is given that it will touch and come to touch Europe as well. We have already started a debate on the migration flows that will come to Europe and to our country, because we are at the end of Europe that most people, refugees and immigrants are approaching, with a view to coming to Europe. It is a bill that comes to build and grow the structure of xenophobia and intolerance that has been built with respectful faith and with uneasy effort all this time New Democracy. Of course it is a bill that comes as we would all expect the asylum framework to be tightened even further to third country residents. In fact, we have an ex post legalisation of the illegal practices adopted by the Greek authorities as part of a racist and most xenophobic policy adopted by the New Democracy Government by investing in the humbleest instincts of Greek society, strengthening the xenophobic reflexes of the most extreme part of the audience's election. We certainly hear every day that no elections will be held, but the New Democracy is legislating with a look at a far right-wing pool of voters. That's her target. He wants to approach and keep this audience in the way that, of course, she judges it best and more profitable by legislating not only against our fellow citizens, but also at the expense of all those people who risk their lives and fleeing their countries. They don't do it to come either to have a good time in Europe or to have a vacation. They do it because they have to leave their countries. They do so to seek a better tomorrow for their families, for themselves, for their children. At the same time, then, the aim of the New Democracy has this very role, to tighten up the legal framework even more and to make it as hostile as possible to those in real need, with the Greek state doing everything it can to get rid of those refugees who come to our country. At the same time, however, it welcomes, accepts with open arms and facilitates third-country citizens who - and we have already discussed this before - have inflatable, let me express them, bank accounts. They are the investors we are seeking to approach. Of course, the New Democracy proves with that logic and this way of legislating and ideological placement that in its own perception of a dangerous foreigner is only the poor stranger. For the rich stranger, it's all open, everything can be done, everything can be legislated. In her fantasy she thinks she can attract foreign nationals of higher economics, giving us another sign of writing on how the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis interprets the foreign investments she promised to fill our country. Ladies and gentlemen, new entrants on the islands of the eastern Aegean and Evros are normally subject to reception and identification procedures and are referred by the reception and identification service to the asylum procedure upon request. They are granted the status of the asylum seeker and the resulting right to remain on the Greek territory alone with the submission of the application, namely an oral or written expression of the will to apply for international protection, which does not require any administrative wording. Consequently, expulsion provisions as provided for in Article 76 of Law 3386/2005 or a refund as provided for in Law 3907/2011 shall not apply, but the provisions of Law 4636/2019 provided that the condition of illegal residence is not fulfilled on their faces. We cannot believe that all these people, all those who have seen them hang out of cars, planes, who are trying to leave the neck and the disaster that comes to level their country once more, Afghanistan is an example, but it is not the only one, they will come here because their aim was to stay in Greece. That's not their target. Their goal is to save their lives. We must understand that we are not the final station. We're a station. The final station is a better tomorrow. We must therefore help to force our partners to accept that Greece really cannot be either the prisoner or the prisoner of these people. We must recognise, pressure and understand that the refugee humanitarian crisis has a pan-European and international dimension. It should be cured as such. That is why there must be a proper division of refugees throughout Europe. The logic of caging which the New Democracy Government continues to serve, unfortunately, will lead us to very bad images. We have already seen the previous period of MATs and repression forces hitting fellow citizens who reacted to the creation of the new controlled population, as the government says, of structures - of prison structures, we say - in their areas. At the same time, he strongly refuses to listen to the citizens who live in these areas, who are experiencing the problem every day, who have, from the very beginning, shown their humanism and their solidarity, helped, supported and rescued these people on many occasions. To them, therefore, the New Democracy Government turns its back and does not agree to listen to them to see how they really should help and support them - to support them all - so that they can get rid of the refugee crisis. We must listen to the citizens, they have the phenomenon at their door, they rescue people who are drowning in boats. We cannot believe that the only solution is to build larger prisons of souls and bodies, even burdening local communities even more. I now spend my time in one of the main and most problematic points of the bill, according to us. We see in several articles the short deadlines for the asylum procedure. For example, with the provisions of the third article, the time allocated to voluntary withdrawal of third-country nationals is drastically reduced. The most characteristic case is that of the second paragraph of Article 22 of Law No 3907/2011 from one year to twenty days, a provision which is taken as a presumption that it will prevent the children from being treated in school from living and that it will result in the shortening of the deadline for the violent overthrow of all living data, which will lead to a difficult remedial damage. Article 5 is about to set a 30-day deadline for appealing against return decisions, a limit that was not in existence, has not been foreseen so far. The seventh article provides that in the case of an application for an extension of a voluntary departure period if the services do not respond within the time limit it is considered that the application has been rejected. It is a pretext that this opens the door to a accumulation of negative decisions that will be made through tacit rejection. So the road opens wide for mass deportations, even of people who should have taken the status of asylum, only because it allows services not to respond, by losing the deadline. Let's go to the eighth article, an article on the performance of residence permits, rejection of decisions, returns of residence, etc. Here we have an attempt to transfer the responsibility for the essential tradition, so also to the knowledge of the decision to the person concerned. The eleventh article really concerns a phenomenon of our time. I will agree with colleagues who have approached this before me. It's about digital nomads. This means those who have the ability to work remotely and to provide services to employers outside Greece. They are allowed to remain in our country together with their families with a limited framework of conditions. One of these, and perhaps the main one, is to prove that there are sufficient funds in the amount of EUR 3,500 a month so that it can be shown that they can support their lives and their expenses in our country. Moving on to Article 16, an article that for us is an extremely problematic article. It concerns cases where refugee status has been withdrawn and refused renewal and it comes to add to the predictions that the authorities do not grant refugee status when a granting decision has not yet been taken by adding to the cases referred to in paragraph 4 of Article 14 of Law 4636/2019 which provides for the withdrawal or refusal to renew the refugee status already granted. In this way, the hands of the government are resolved so that they can overthrow decisions that have already been made on the performance of their refugee status to immigrants. Article 17 is to add the provision for a fine of EUR 150 in the event of a late request for a residence permit to be renewed, at the time when only the late submission of a renewal application does not give rise to its rejection. The prediction of imposing this fine introduces an additional condition, which, on the one hand, undermines the protection afforded by the European directives on recognition and asylum, but on the other hand, it is certain that it will cause many problems in its implementation and will in any event make it even more difficult for the whole process to be implemented. I shall end by ending up with an article on which we have debated extensively during our committee's meetings under Rule 40. This article is one of the most important, as it attempts to set and define the conditions for the activities of Greek and international voluntary organisations, civil society organisations and non-governmental organisations in the area of responsibility of the Port Corps and the Greek Coast Guard. It is trying to limit the action of all of these, whose pursuits are radically different from those which the Port House appears to have - or rather those who give the mandate to the Port House - because it is now known that we have a return operation, a policy which the government refuses, but it seems to fully adopt. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll need your tolerance for a minute, Mr. President. As I said, we are seeing a conscious course towards tightening, a course that is escalating bills - bills, stones - port, both operational and legislative. But who are they threatening to "invade" our country? If we try to give the answer, we will see how it really is a heartbreaking answer to the level of humanism and our culture. Those who are baptized by some as hemorrhaging invaders are the desperate people we have seen and continue to see trying to leave, to escape. We saw mothers giving their children to soldiers so they could leave Afghanistan, we saw children crying for their parents who lost them in their attempt to escape. So their governing party baptizes 'insolvents', from which we should be protected and protected. Unfortunately, we see the logic of preventing the unhappy ones from being protected from gigantic and growing in the European Union, which could help and support all of them in practice. As MERA25, we have made the efforts of the New Democracy Government to tighten the framework just to make it acceptable to a conservative European Union, just to accept a "slap in the back" and a "bravo". We won't consent or become your assistants and supporters in this effort. That is why we will vote against this bill, as we will vote against all the bills you bring, bills governed by intolerance and xenophobia. We must help local communities. We must listen to our fellow citizens, but also seek to find in our deepest sense the humanism that I want to believe we have. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, too. The former President of Parliament, Mr Nikos Voutsis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin by expressing my deep emotion at the loss of our great, ecumenical Theodorakis, whose musical statements for decades have been heard by all the Greeks, they have been sang by the great majority of the Greeks and have perhaps been heard by a large majority in the inhabited in the inhabited by peoples who have been inspired by these musical statements. I would also like to express my statement - because everyone has a memory - that there was also inspiration in the struggles in our country by the songs of Mickey, for some of us who used to sing them in the polytechnic bars. The House had helped self-evidently when it was asked to become the last two emblematic, very large events with the presence of Miki at the Concert Hall of Music and the very great event at the Panathinaikos Stadium. It was self-evident support through the effort that George Lianis had made at the time. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say straight away that this bill, as the rapporteur himself said - so for my part, I do not want to add any votes to the excellent degradation - I would say that it has been made on the part of the SYRIZA rapporteur for a point, but also from the point of view of other rapporteurs, Mrs Bakadima now, Mr Kamine, Mrs Konnaka, on the individual articles of this bill - is a political act for a new, institutional, more stringent framework for the management of immigration. It is, in other words, an institutional shield through a grid of provisions to prevent the present and future waves of refugees and immigrants. So I do not have anything to add to this in order to demonstrate this direction of politics. I shall speak on a number of political issues, in my opinion very seriously, which must be taken into account both by the present government and by all of us. Do we realize what time we're living? Have we realised that they will multiply - Mr Kamins has just talked about an outbreak - the waves of immigrants and refugees from specific causes, such as the climate crisis? There are analyses of tens of millions of environmental, air-conditioning immigrants from countries which will be in the near future because of the climate crisis, from hunger, impoverishment, from civil conflicts very serious, and, of course, from armed interventions that have been made by external forces and from wars that have been provoked. This bill comes from the government at the same time as the President of the United States, Mr Biden, and journalists at international level make self-criticism at one time about the series of wars which in the past twenty-five years have been unleashed. There have been interventions, interventions, warfare, most without effect, except that there have been additional waves of refugees. So there is such a self-criticism in the process of defeat suffered by the forces that have remained in Afghanistan lately. For our part - either through NATO or by itself in some of these interventions, in the most important of them, we have been present as a country - we do not see the responsibility there is. Because there is a responsibility to the results. We say mea culpa, I went, I had so many casualties there, I leave them, there'll be some civils from now on. What will be produced by the world that runs off with its children dizzy, as we say, who will distribute it? Who's gonna collect it? Where are the international conventions going? Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, I was present as President of the House at the time in three major debates which took place at the level of the Presidents of Parliament in Europe on these matters. In fact, one of them in Strasbourg and another in Bratislava had been given the honorary role of the rapporteur with the Hungarian, that is, the other view on refugee - immigration. In fact, I was amazed at how modest and how hypocritically the majority - not all - of the Presidents of the Parliament, also reflecting this climate, were not seen despite the fact that we pointed out that there was a serious share of responsibility both at the economic and social level and at the level of international relations and at the level of the European Union's efforts to combat wars, as a whole or for some. There's a responsibility testified. We are not some areas that are safe, and as I have heard the Greek rapporteur say they do not want to. "When they don't want them, what are you bringing them here?" he says. "People said they don't want any more immigrants." They form a pact - it seems to be a new one - the European Asylum and Migration Pact, provided that the refusal to relocate and refuse to honour, that is to say, a country-by-country commitment, as it would be reasonable, for guaranteed and secure gates of entry, registration, but also for residence, incorporation, etc. a large part of the resulting migration and refugee flows. "We don't want" he says. So there is a major political issue on a European scale that I would expect the government to politically suggest, precisely because we are one of the so-called gates of entry, a policy which it proposes and which is confronted with the xenophobic front within the European Union and there is a front of forces and countries - those that are the gates of entry and other countries - which require them to form a policy for Dublin and for asylum that sees precisely the responsibilities of the European Union - which are in place - and in particular the responsibility on the basis of international treaties and solidarity to resolve the issue. Instead, what's going on? Instead, unfortunately, Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Sasoli, who leaked from Maximos yesterday, wanted to do what appears to be the domestic Salvini in 2021. I want him to be right. From this Step and from the Senate, Mr. Philip Grundi from the High Commissioner, Mr. Sasoli, has been here a while ago, with whom Mr. Mitsotakis colluded. Mrs Miyatovic, Mrs Johanson, Commissioners of the Council of Europe, the European Union, came. They were submitted by all the independent authorities, by the Citizens' Counselor repeatedly and during our governance, thorough, substantiated findings, with proposals, with issues that they raised. Of all rights associations in Greece, objections, differentiations, complaints of the policy and strategy followed have been filed. In this respect, therefore, and on the front of this confrontation and conflict, the choice of the government, the choice of Mr Mitsotakis personally and of the ministers, is on the forefront of the xenophobic forces and of our country's role, which is the shield - the so-called 'European shield' - to send something all over the ground, which you did not understand if people were inside or who were, and to play an internal tooling game against the unacceptable tooling that Erdogan did for migration last year in Evros and had done so at times. So it is now an internal operation in the context of the management of fear and of Greek society in pandemic conditions - for a year and a half - and other crises, that we are doing our resistance to acts and the maritime borders, which, both internationally and in the last few months, have been denounced as illegal on the basis of International Law. And they had become policies for coexistence or incorporation or, in any case, for the need to promote these people in Greek society and in the mainland. Everything's gone down, everything's coming under the table. How many kids are in Greek education? Twelve thousand had entered Greek education in the first year of operation of schools by the people who had come. And you know that language and education is the crucifix point for contacting society. And not to hear, Mr. Rapporteur of the New Democracy, on the preservation of Christianity, etc. for our country and for Europe, because this is also a matter. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I can give you the Minutes that in these debates, the pan-European ones, has come from Hungary, Poland and some other countries and has absolutely - that is, as a diplomatic line - the religion for Christian Europe is rejected and condemned - and from large countries, namely France, Germany - by a large majority of states. We do not live in a Christian Europe, which must keep this value as a worthy, introductory part vis-à-vis others who will come in another religion and are therefore dangerous, it is assumed that they will be dangerous. That is unacceptable. So the major issue is that. There must be a different strategy. I would like to reply to Mr Kamine, who we had collaborated with at the time. And we had worked well both in the 2015 phase and by the Ministry of Interior, in the great exacerbation that existed at the time. And Thodorus had played a very big role from his post, Tasia Christodoulopoulos and others. When Mrs Christodoulopoulos told you then, Mr Kamine, the other Members do not know that they are missing, you know very well that a corridor had been opened at the northern border - and another corridor - from which hundreds of thousands of immigrants and refugees were actually being channelled where they should be channelled, namely to other European countries to take their share of their responsibility. We got the border shut down. We are in a closed border regime and have imposed on us this process of supposedly keeping the New Liberal and Christian Europe warm on these issues, namely a certain minority of states and perceptions within Europe. Madam President - and I thank you for your tolerance in time - the role of our country, the future of our country, with the legacy that has made it known worldwide, and the point of reference for solidarity and humanity for what is coming and for what is happening, is with the forces which, with open eyes, insight into what is coming, what the responsibilities are, how they should be addressed, what solidarity and measured and proportionate effort must be made by all countries, to deal with in terms of humanity and the terms of international treaties. It is not with this bill which, in your express wording, introduces our country and institutionally - and that is why yesterday Mr Mitsotakis fought with Mr Sasoli - on the forefront and the block of the powers of xenophobics who have no insight into what comes and have no perseverance with the values of this country and of this people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u92	Now Mr Tsigris has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Madam President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to wish everyone a good parliamentary year. We returned after a difficult summer and a worse August. I come from a region which was hit first by the catastrophic fires, a region that measures wounds in Aegialia, in the periphery of Patras, in Tritaria, of the Municipality of Erymanthos. I have been next to people who are suffering, who have lost their homes, their property, farmers who do not have agricultural land to cultivate, and I have made a promise that by the last minute, until the end of the firefighting citizen of Achaia, I will be there and here at the same time asking for it to be done immediately, as has already been immediately begun. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, the legislation we are debating today and will be voting on this evening by the National Representation, concerns three basic things: deportations and returns of citizens of third countries, issues of residence permits, issues of international protection. Is it - to ask a rhetorical question - on these issues? Are they coming in in an appropriate time, or is it timeless? Do we need to have a great shield in our immigration law, or do we regard our immigration law as complete and do we not need any improvement? If we believe at least a little that we need improvement, we must today unite on a number of key issues. What's the international juncture we're talking about in the bill? Events in Afghanistan. Who do they leave indifferent? The most conservative forecasts speak of five hundred thousand people who will first and foremost knock on the door to Europe. This door knock will be deafening, strong and we must be ready to deal with it. Therefore, along with the international context that we are debating today at European level the revision of the Immigration and Asylum Pact and - at the same time - a few days ago - the joint statement by the ministers of the European Union on the need to shield Europe, we should be here today in the debate first and foremost useful. And that is what we will do, ladies and gentlemen. We should be here today in the debate first and foremost useful and that is what I will do, ladies and gentlemen. So, beyond what the national states and our state will do - which has started first of all - Europe finally assume its responsibilities. It should finally be our European partners in the North to accept that migration and refugee is a common European problem which requires common and radical treatment, that the collective decisions of all the states which have signed the agreements and the treaties are consistent, that Turkey - which is self-evident - must respect International Law and the agreement signed in 2001 for the - of the fact that you remember very well - read out non-legal immigrants. And of course, the European coastguard must finally be strengthened by staff and resources. Among the proposals, however, ladies and gentlemen, which must be adopted directly by the individual Member States - the European Union's Member States - are: The cessation of all Community aid to countries of origin which do not show a spirit of cooperation, the prosecuting of the basic issue, the traffic cycles of illegal immigrants, the strengthening of controls and, first and foremost, cross-border controls, closer cooperation on visas and - what the southern countries are asking for - the financial support of Greece and Cyprus in the first place and, of course, at the second level of the other states which have sensitive external borders of the European Union of Malta, Italy, Portugal and Spain. Ladies and gentlemen, I have had the honour of serving our country for three years at the Supreme Advisory Council of the Heads of State of the Union on Europe's security and cross-border cooperation. And there the discussions were always going on, but no decisions were made. Today, then, we have to make decisions. We are at this level in order to fortify Europe not in the sense of the wall but the humanitarian aid of its people. And when I say humanitarian, we also have a humanitarian debt to our duty first and foremost as democrats and as Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, a rational immigration policy should be based on two main pillars first and foremost in the area of security and secondly in the area of humanism. Any one of the two areas remains arrogant, immigration policy, I would say, needs special support. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will be a minute. Greece has recently faced the first wave of illegal immigration with absolute success. We will also take the appropriate steps to deal with it this time. In the past Greeks, Greek women, grandparents and grandparents in Chios and in Lesvos took the Peace Nobel because they fed minor refugees. We were hammering and enchanting as Greeks for these images. The diploma is therefore: as much as possible humanism as possible in a Greece which is not a clear vine. Ladies and gentlemen - Madam President, thank you for your little tolerance - I cannot close his speech today on the bill of Migration and Asylum without sending my warmest condolences to the family of the great Greek from this step. I wanted to say music composer, but he's a great Greek. Because the great Greeks are worthy, they serve values without any humiliation and believers in the ideals of democracy and in the end they manage to unite the Greeks. This is what Theodorakis did with his value, with democratic confidence in all aspects of his life, but also with the consistent service of values united all Greeks and we are proud of him. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u94	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The floor is raised by Vice-President Vits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Madam President. I think that the main criterion of policy is the precise hierarchy of matters. Let's take the most recent example. A fact of international scope and possibly for a long time is the departure of the US troops and the establishment of the Taliban Caliphat in Afghanistan. What does that mean? This means that this is the first time in recent years created by a state-recognised state-recognised state-based state-specific morality and - one would say - religious ideology that can mean rather than many dangers. ISIS, the Islamic state had no state status as much as they would call it. They didn't have anything recognized. We just knew the key element was Saddam's army. We knew that thing. After all, we all know that for many years the great superpower has usually fought with itself, namely, with something that she herself created and usually loses in the end, as she has lost here with the Taliban. We know that, they've admitted it themselves. Instead of insisting on and seeing as Europe what agreements have been made between the United States and the Taliban - don't tell me that you know, no one knows, we all suspect, but this puzzle will never be completed - we automatically turn this first basic issue into a refugee issue. Suddenly they become enemies, opponents, those trying to escape - we saw them in photographs in the desert - women, girls, children from a process too dangerous to themselves. And we must see - and I say this more about Mr Mitsotakis, about what he said - that the Geneva Treaty and the New York Protocol are in force or not. Because it's - if you want - unbearable for us. We also need to make a burden on other countries. So our request, in Greece, for a solution - and because this issue is now coming - for a level playing field across all the Member States of the European Union and not just - I would say - should be in the front line. Of course, the first to applaud Mr. Mitsotakis in his conflict with Sashalli was Orban. But because I want to talk about the bill, I want to go to the second one. The second issue in politics is the relationship between the political narrative and the truth. Look what Mr. Mitsotakis says in 2015. Let's get some evidence. In 2015, have Germany crossed the borders of over a million refugees and immigrants, yes or no? There have been hundreds of thousands of Austria's borders, yes or no? This continued from the 2015 Greek Easter until February 2016, which closed the border. So what happened in this period? Suddenly Tsipras brought them the immigrants, or Merkel brought the immigrants, or the bombings created refugee flows? So if we're trying to get to the social conscious that something happened in 2015, weird, weird, we're losing the essence of the thing. That's what I mean. The third issue is this. If we treat the refugee - immigration as something that is now happening and are going to end tomorrow or much more, we can end it with the weapons - I literally say it, because this is how it is done - we make a huge mistake. Let's make all the decisions we want, let's make all the laws we want. And it's like you're telling me that someone starts to get away from death, his family, etc., and he starts reading the legislation of Greece or the legislation of Germany about whether he's going in or not. This thing can't be done. On the contrary, because the world has lived through many major wars, a system of justice has been established, which we cannot even reach. Mrs Roosevelt will remember in Articles 13 and 14 of human rights - if I remember correctly, because from the outside I try to remember - she describes a situation that is so thoughtful that at the moment we cannot even think about it, namely anyone who can go wherever he wants to. Nemar can do that and Messie, but poor people can't do it. Just because there's a minute left, I want to say two more things. First of all, I would like to say that the ideas'small Europe', 'Europe fortress', with reprocesses, abstractions and walls will not succeed. Even the constant return of Evros will succeed, where the Greek state rightly did what it did, because exactly there was a very specific effort made by Erdogan at the time, and we all know how he was disguised and we all know that if they went one kilometer more than tens there was no one not to let them pass. We know that thing. But we were right to treat it, but it was a concrete effort, an example of a hybrid war. I want to speak and close with the NGO article. We need to have a great conversation on this. There is a comprehensive legislative, legal framework. Why does this article need? Do we not have the framework for how non-governmental organisations operate? In what way do I help? What are the obligations of the port? In what way does he lead? You know, the Port does what the state tells him. It did not change the Port from 2019 to 2021. If some people are making reprocesses right now, it's the ones who made rescues two years ago. It is the political choice that is changing, and that is why we are reaching a situation of condemnation from the European Commission. One last thing. I have here the whole situation, where the islands are, and so on. I find a difference: The Ministry says it's five thousand two hundred sixty-four on the islands. It's good for the islands, I'm not saying it's bad. The High Commissioner says six thousand six hundred fifty. It doesn't matter much, it doesn't make much difference. Where's the difference? When you have these numbers, you don't build prisons. Secondly, let's not fool each other, we know they're taking three months off, and then they're trying to never come back. Isn't that right? Heads, don't record. Is that what you're saying? Will it not make the other countries take other measures if Greece is chosen as the state that wants to do so? Madam President, I have to tell you this and I may say something that is not good at all. In a few days the elections are held in Germany. The outcome of the elections, not only who will take the government, but also what level the AFD will reach, is likely to judge, in my opinion, the legislative framework for immigration policy to be defined in Dublin IV, let us call it that. Mr. Avramopoulos wanted us to call it "Athens". If we do not prepare for this, it will be the worst scenario for the first host countries and first and foremost for Greece and Cyprus. So we need a framework for defending human rights, for I know what you will say to me - both refugees and immigrants. Because there are neither irregular refugees nor illegal refugees, there are only refugees. Immigrants may be irregular. One is that. We also need a framework of defence for the local people who fight for their lives. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Vice President. As the plane has to get ahead of us, we will give Mrs Anna Mani the floor for seven minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, yesterday Mickeys Theodorakis, a great Greek, left, on the one hand, a Greek who contributed with his work as few as in the international radiation of our country and, on the other, left as part of his precious deposit and his message for the unity of our people. I would like to say the words of our Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis - because he is in this connection - who said goodbye to him that his advice has always been valuable, particularly those concerning the unity of our people, in overcoming the dividing lines. I believe that the best honor to this global Greek will be us, with our daily work, doing just that message. The bill now, ladies and gentlemen. In a critical period, in fact, due to the international situation and the crisis in Afghanistan, and following the previous legislative initiative, with which the government has introduced a more stringent, but also a fairer system for granting asylum, the current regulation comes, which further asserts the country's legislative and institutional arsenal on the immigration issue. With today's bill, the government sends a clear and clear message that our country is not a clear vine, that only those who meet the legal requirements will remain in our country, while everyone else will be removed by short but fair and clear procedures. It is necessary, along with the strengthening of logistical infrastructure and human resources, to extend the fence to Evros, the automated border monitoring system, the new border guards, measures which already operate and have brought about a significant reduction in flows, to have the appropriate legislative framework, to have specific rules which will prevent any attempt to abuse rights and any paradoxical tactics that may aim to delay expulsions and returns and, of course, always with respect to human rights, as established in our Constitution, as well as in international conditions, but above all, to the basis of humanism that our country has always shown and demonstrated in such circumstances. In this context one of the most important regulations introduced is the amendment of the deportation and return laws, as it is now explicitly stated that for foreigners who enter illegally and are arrested at the country's borders the expulsion procedure is applied and not the return procedure. This decision will be adopted by the police and will apply immediately if a foreigner does not apply for asylum or his request to be rejected. The framework of voluntary departure of third-country nationals is also reformed, so that this measure is no longer used abusively to undermine or delay the return procedure on a case-by-case basis and the same objective is to serve both the establishment of a certain number of disputes against return decisions and the establishment of digital performance of those decisions while notifying the police authorities. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to the above and the provisions on returns and expulsions, a particularly important issue is dealt with in this bill. It is an issue on which our country is taking the lead by being one of the first countries in Europe to establish a special residence permit for the category of digital groups and they really deserve congratulations to the Ministry's leadership on this legislative initiative. And because this term may sound like a foreigner, let us clarify that digital nomads are defined by those who work remotely, from any part of the world, by means of technology, whether they are employees or self-employed. This is an ever-growing trend with enormous prospects, as with the permanentisation of a large number of teleworking, their number is expected to spread over the next few years globally. Our country has all the comparative advantages to become one of the most popular destinations for digital nomadic nomads with always a dominant element of natural beauty and excellent weather conditions. It is a really important project which, Minister, requires coordination and cooperation between all the co-legislative ministries, so as to regulate a number of individual issues, for example the avoidance of double taxation, the requirement of full insurance so as not to burden the national health system, but also to establish further details and technical issues. The Government of New Democracy, with insight and understanding of the prospect and the many benefits for local communities and the national economy once again starts and shapes the institutional framework for the residence of digital nomads, high-paid workers, who will first receive a special residence permit for 12 months with the possibility of extending it. The importance of the project also demonstrates recent elements of MIT's world-famous university, according to which if our country manages to attract hundreds of thousands of digital nomads in a year with an average stay of six months is expected to gain a benefit of more than EUR 1.6 billion. In conclusion, Minister, I would like to express my thought in which I think we all agree, that it will be very effective to make a systematic effort to promote all regions of the Greek region, as attracting digital nomads is a first-class opportunity to strengthen the region and local economies. I may not be, ladies and gentlemen, the most objective and, of course, every corner in our country is beautiful, but let me say that my country, Pieria, seems to be the ideal place to live and work any digital nomads from any part of the world. And because this bill is an invitation to the indisputable digital nomads for this reason, and I am voting in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too. The President of Parliament, Mr Tassoulas, has asked for the floor for a moment's intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u99	"I would also like to stress right from the outset that, from all my aspects of this report, i.e. the composer, the citizen and the thinker, I distinguish that of the Member, the active citizen, because I consider that it characterises more than anything else my commitment to what I loved most in my life, homeland and people. This is particularly important when the initiative to carry out this report comes from the President of the Parliament together with a large number of prominent political leaders representing all the parties and Members of this House. The national unity, as you certainly know, has always been the great utopia of my life, in order to consider my formal and essential but unfortunately also to be informed, within the narrow limits of this report, as a small personal victory. So I set the citizen's status above that of the artist, since the dramatic events, foreign occupation, civil, dictatorship, did not allow me to be a mere observer and as a citizen I considered my first task to be involved in the commons. For me, then, it means space that, although it fits only three hundred MPs, the entire Greek people are actually there. And that feeling filled me with other than responsibility and with deep human satisfaction and pride, which I still feel at the moment. That is why I said that the thrill of the former MEP of the Greek Parliament is tearing my other qualities." This was self-selected by Mikis Theodorakis, prescribing the fine and interesting version of the Greek Parliament in 2009 on the presidency of Dimitrios Sioufas for the triple fold of Mikis Theodorakis, expressed by the notions "composer", "political" and "speaker". And because this man, as he says in this welcome to the report, which I had the pleasure of sharing with you and which we will update in collaboration with the Foundation of the Parliament, above all, he put the status of politician, active citizen, can only be achieved on the day of his funeral, i.e. next Thursday, at an elementary price in his memory. This was requested by parties. Yesterday, the Communist Party asked us to be closed today, it was also requested by other parties, but I think that the most appropriate day for us to put the honor to his face in a figurative and symbolic way is the day when his exodus will be sang. So, next Thursday, there will be no legislative work as a minimum sign of honor to a man, who despite all the shocking qualities he had at the same time, who himself set out above all the status of active citizen, the status of representative of the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. You're absolutely right. Now the Vice-President of the Change Movement, Mr. Constantinople, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today is also a special day for us. It's September 3rd. Forty-seven years ago, our Movement was created. For many years it has been found to play an important and important role through the governance of the country. He made very big reforms that changed the root of the country's history. It has gone through difficulties, and today it is again in the hope that it can contribute to the great consensus that the country needs. It always - as it has in recent years - puts the country over the party. I think in the next few months developments will justify our efforts. Ladies and gentlemen, over the past few years in this Chamber there have been too many of the patriots' suits. The word 'patriot' put it in introductory form. Another nationalist at other levels. I would like to remind those who often speak hard words - not to use another word - for refugees and immigrants. A man in here asking for hangers for the refugees ended up hiding him by a Ukrainian. I mean, be racist and hide you from a Ukrainian. Therefore, he wants to pay attention to the new data, to the major new migration flows that will exist, but also to how we address this issue. Mr. Kamines is from Chios. It's not just the Minister from Chios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u102	I'm from Chios, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Michaelides is here. A very good competition in the next ballot. We want to take the seat in Chios. We can make it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u104	Get her out of New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u105	We want to take the seat. The competition for the second can be made with the New Democracy. We don't have a problem. To be perfectly honest, there has been a reduction in the flows in recent years. As Mr Kamines said, we're not petty. Mr. Metarakis, we were never petty. We recognize people, even if it is timely, that since they were at the wheel of the country, they also have a greater responsibility. The problem is, they never recognize all of what they did other things. I hear you all day talking about the fence in Evros, but no one has been found to tell Evro the fence started at PASOK. You make it all, you set it up. All about this has been done by the New Democracy. So, in the way we recognize you, you must recognise our great contribution. As with closed centres for immigrants. We are discussing the issue of immigrants, and there is the United Nations which has decided who is the immigrants, who is the refugee, who is the illegal and who is not. However, I would like to make a different approach to this issue, Minister. You'll allow me to because I've been covered in all the rest of the world by Mr. Kamines. Even if we did not have these problems in Afghanistan today, the country is in the way it works in specific areas, such as farmers, focus, tourism and construction, and needs a workforce that does not exist. Today people have lived in structures for many years. They have all the legal documents. We're not doing anything - I'm talking about all the governments - about these people. We've got gaps. We're saying we're a serious state. We're talking about Germany. But Germany took a million, joined them, helped to develop their country and everything else. So what's the government's plan for those who already exist? Our plan is to keep them in prison somewhere, pay, make contests, make food and have nothing else to do? And wait? Tourism, farmers, focus, building and many other manifestations of the Greek economy cannot respond and enjoy their competition? What is the plan of the country and the plan to which all parties could agree? And again so that there are no misunderstandings, I'm talking about these people for whom there are legal papers. What's the plan? Is there a plan? Someone can come out and say there's no unemployment, there's no staff shortage. The lack of staff nowadays in these areas I have told you exceeds 40%. This would be the first to reduce the competitiveness of the Greek economy very soon. I would like to ask you really directly if these people can by training, using these funds, support them, enable them to work for the benefit of the Greek economy, help the insurance funds. Many of them could join the Greek society. They've done it. Of course, those who are wrongdoers will have to leave. We are too late, Minister, and I understand you. Flows are down. We all live our myth. But at some point these will change. We must go to reason about how we are going to make use of this whole process. I have made this proposal publicly in the House two years ago. Unfortunately, there was no response. I would like to believe that in the next few years there will be a consultation of the political parties, those who really believe in a consensus on the future. There will be room for creating better conditions for these people in Greece. They don't want to leave and want to join under conditions the Greek state has. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr. Mitarakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum is a legislative initiative that makes changes and improvements to the deportation process of those who are staying illegally in our country, as well as in the provisions of the Immigration Code to improve investment permits, in particular, the introduction of the concept of digital notion to be presented by the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs, Mr Varvitsiotis, but also other important issues of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. The spokesmen of the opposition, the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi, correctly laid the bill on his ideological basis. Indeed, there are great ideological differences between the Left and the Government of New Democracy in the face of the migratory crisis. I will agree with him that the issue of immigration is here to stay for decades, if not for more and tens of millions of people can be found in migration routes over the next few years. And our country is obliged to plan in this light. There are, of course, reasons that lead to immigration. And it goes without saying that the humanitarian approach of the whole of the European Union. But success is to prevent the reasons for migratory flows, to prevent extreme poverty, the climate crisis, the anti-democratic regimes. And that is what the international community is trying to do, sometimes successfully, sometimes, unfortunately without success. And, of course, to emphasise legal immigration, to give legal corridors to people we want and their skills to come to live in our country, as we have done for decades with special residence permits. But, of course, we are living in a Christian Europe. We live in a Christian Greece, as our Constitution defines. But Europe's greatness is that we fully respect the religious beliefs of all religions and that is the great warning difference of the European Union. Of course, we have our values, we have the European way of life. And all this debate, ladies and gentlemen, is being very timely because of the developments in Afghanistan. We have clearly announced that we will not accept, as in 2015-2019, being the gateway to Europe for illegal immigration flows, in breach of Article 31 of the Geneva Treaty. Today, Europe is promoting actions to provide the necessary humanitarian aid to prevent the creation of refugee flows and we will support the European institutions in this direction. But, as decided on Tuesday at the Internal Affairs Council, we will not repeat the mistakes of 2015. And this is not Greece's position. The words ‘incorrect 2015’ were said by almost all European Union Ministers for Home Affairs. And Greece is a part of the European Union at the moment of a strong majority. It has been said by speakers of opposition and today that the government is seeking to be Europe's shield. I have clearly replied that the government defends our own country. We are Greece's shield. Mr Mouszalas in the committee, Mr Kamine, with one voice, said that Europeans are not porcupines. They're right. SYRIZA thought it would open the borders in 2015, saying that he did not understand the consequences for our country at that time, he would enter millions into our country - as it did - but they would simply go elsewhere. Until the Europeans quickly understood this strategy, they closed down our northern borders and took us the keys to governance, imposing the 2016 European Union-Turkey Joint Declaration, recognizing our country as a safe country for the immigrants and refugees from Syria, as the SYRIZA Government could not alone deal with the crisis of flows, which our islands so strongly affected in 2015. And, of course, we remember what our islands were like, but not just our islands. The whole country had become a camp. And today you are reminiscing these times. You are actually talking and saying that we will bring new flows from Afghanistan, one way or another. On the contrary, the New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, re-established the Ministry in January 2020 set two specific and measurable objectives: Firstly, the substantial reduction in flows and, secondly, the drastic reduction in the impact of the crisis on local communities. And indeed this government was called upon to face multiple challenges to the migration issue. He had to deal with the increased flows of the period 2015-2019, overpopulation in all structures - every week we had a new structure created in the country - the COVID pandemic in 2020 and how we will shield the population within the structures and the CSTs and in the local communities. And I would like to point out, remembering the 2020 discussions, that, in all the structures of our islands, from the beginning of the pandemic to the present day, there has been no loss of human life. Do you remember what the NGOs said last year? Do you remember what they predicted? Do you remember what we were talking about in this Chamber? The Mitsotakis Government has also faced the work of immigration and events in Evros, the accumulated years of years in examining demands for international protection, the complete destruction of Moria in a night that led thousands of people out of structure in the midst of a pandemic. And, of course, in all these challenges, we have dealt effectively. Now, we're talking about a management situation at all levels. With the National Migration Strategy 2020-2021, adopted by the Ministerial Council, we have set the bar high, with a plan and consistency. We have regained control of immigration and, by extension, of our country's international credibility, especially in the European Union. And, of course, the results of our policy are measurable. The numbers are clear and the numbers describe reality. In the last 12 months, flows have fallen by 86%. On our islands - you are all talking about the islands - they have fallen by 96%. There has been a lot of discussion about the government's strategy on our islands, a debate that started before the re-establishment of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. But now, two years of governance have passed, which gives us the right to speak with objectives, to speak with results, not to speak with theory, we are talking with results that are measurable as our initiatives have given rise to. He was asked how we achieved this result. The Prime Minister presented the six-point strategy. The first point was the security of our borders. Our country has land and sea borders and guards them. And we owe thanks to the men and women of the Armed Forces and the Security Bodies for the work they have done in recent years and, of course, for the thousands of lives that have been saved in the Aegean Sea. The security of borders - to be clear - and the rescue, where necessary, of the security bodies of our country, is about the Greek port, which is deterring - of course is deterring - as the European regulations provide for. He doesn't welcome. And, of course, the NGOs, which are financed as migration flows increase, cannot guard the borders. I cannot imagine that one would accept the poachers sending their own boats in the middle line, waiting for their customers who paid to go across from a safe country, Turkey, after consultation and we call this a rescue. And I would remind you that in our country there are no international waters between Turkey and our islands, and the security of borders is not only about immigration but about national security, about smuggling, about many things. So that was our first goal. The strategy of limiting flows also includes rapidly segregating refugees from illegal economic immigrants. Thirdly, it involves strengthening deportations, a goal that is served by today's bill. And you all accept the problem. You all accept that deportations are not enough. You have all said so and that is why the government comes to legislate to improve problems which, from the experience of the administration, prevent us from having the number of deportations we want. Fourthly, the creation of the closed controlled structures with the first in Samos inaugurated on 18th. And I call on Mr. Mylonakis to walk with her, count the beds because they probably have lost count in the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u108	We'll be there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u109	Of course, while KINAL speaks of recession and outburst, SYRIZA admits that we may have migratory flows, you come hypocritically to get votes, say they don't need structures on the islands. You may disagree that they are closed - this is an ideological issue - but I remind you that the structures on the islands were created on SYRIZA because there were flows. And I recall that there were Members of the KINAL in 2014 who questioned the Samara government to create structures - in Chios, for example - because the structure that existed before was not sufficient. So let's be clear. We must prepare for no crisis so that there are no flows. Of course, with the control of NGOs, which today's bill also has substantial provisions, and this helps to reduce flows, as the reduction in the length and level of benefits. And while the new closed, controlled structure in Samos is inaugurated on September 18th, immediately twelve days after September 30th, the area of the old structure in Vathy in the Municipality of East Samos is delivered. Responding to those who said that the old and the new structure would supposedly remain. You're saying the same now in Lesvos and Chios. You scare people that they'll both stay structures. The people will see in Samos. Lero will see the same thing. That these structures close as they open new structures, just like the apartments close. In Samos, Kos and Lero the program "EXTIA" ended on 31 December 2020, in Chios and in Lesvos, ending in November 2021. You are commenting, ladies and gentlemen, on the strategy of the government. But let us look at the results. Let us see the flows on the islands and focus on summer, in summer months each year, June, July, August. In 2017, seven thousand forty-nine immigrants entered our islands. Next year, in 2018, an increase of 16%, eight thousand forty-nine enters. In 2019, at a time when a SYRIZA Governance Section is founded, a New Democracy Governance Department has indeed increased a great deal, the second crisis has been said and we reach fifteen thousand two hundred fifty-four. We are therefore applying after the new strategy. In 2020, a thousand twenty-nine, 93% reduction. You will say 'the pandemic'. Let's go, 2021: Reduce further 25%. On all Aegean islands, all in the summer of 2021 we had seven hundred seventy arrivals. Do you want to see the residents in the islands? In Lesvos you delivered us on election day seven thousand nine hundred twenty-seven. Today there are three thousand seven hundred fifty two. You handed us two thousand and ninety eight to Chios. Today there are four hundred twenty-seven. You delivered three thousand four hundred and fifty-six to Samos. Today they are six hundred twenty-eight. To Kos, you handed us two thousand eighty-five. Today there are two hundred fifty-seven. Lero, you handed us over a thousand three hundred fifteen. Today is a hundred sixty-two. Where do you see caging in the islands, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population? It is clear that the New Democracy policy has protected our islands. We don't have any flows. We now have very few residents. So we have the right now to say that the strategy that we have implemented has worked. Against us various theories of counter-population: others say asylum in Turkey, they say that Turkey has the key and let Turkey choose how many people will get in Turkey to submit requests. Others say for registration only on the islands. I mean, they say they're coming and just supposedly go elsewhere. The inhabitants of the islands are asking and have an absolute right to stop the islands from raising the burden of immigration. Let us see the future, see the development of the islands, in which - I am passing away - it also contributes to maintaining the insular VAT that SYRIZA has abolished and we have managed to keep on these five islands. Young children must not feel migratory as a brake. But that is now the reality. The strategy of the government has unleashed our islands, leaving them without a record of those who invest in the division and in the crisis, those who want the internal conflict while knowing that what they are proposing today, what you are saying to us today, has led to the 2015 crisis. Finally, those who say 'no' to the structures say 'yes' to the flows. They just hope they're going elsewhere, not to stay on the islands. They forget, of course, the implementation of this policy by SYRIZA in 2015-2019. While today, 12 months of data have decreased by 80% in our islands and 48% in total in the country. So we are not just talking about decongestion on the islands, we are talking about decongesting our country as a whole from the pressure of the migratory crisis. We now have thirty-three thousand seventy two asylum seekers and nine thousand sixty-seven recognised, who will leave with a capacity of sixty-six thousand positions throughout the system. And, of course, we closed eighty-five structures in 2020. Of the hundred and twenty-one structures we had throughout the country today, thirty-six operate. And these thirty-six who operate on mainland Greece will become closed structures. The model of closed structures will be applied throughout the country and not in Evros as one of the anti-population colleagues said and went to create a political specula. In Evros the structure is already closed as you know. And SYRIZA was closed. The national strategy for Evros doesn't change. The structure of Evros is not a structure to be considered for asylum applications. And, of course, we are now talking about a positive balance, Mr Kamine, I have told you many times by removing deportations to Albania. It's still positive. I have told you twice in committee and you do what you are not listening to. Seven thousand fourteen legally out of our country have left this year, deportations, relocations, voluntary returns, and four thousand seventy - six came. And, indeed, twenty-five thousand people have left for Germany. These twenty-five thousand people have legally left for Germany, they have not illegally left our country under the Schengen Agreement and have gone to Germany. And at the moment there is no question of returning these people to Greece, they have also made a request to remain in Germany. I must have made a mistake. I told Mr. Kamine you were missing. You don't miss them, Mr. Kamin. You want to go back to Greece, add to the tens of thousands of foreigners who came to Athens over your mayorship in previous years, due to policies that you are repeating today, but fortunately they are not going to be implemented. And we come with this bill to speed up deportation and return procedures, to strengthen this positive sign by amending the provisions of Law 3386/2005 and Law 3908/2011. The aim of these arrangements is to resolve issues arising in the application of the provisions and to limit, as far as possible, the margins for misuse of rights by third-country nationals to be expelled or returned. The aim is to clearly separate the administrative expulsion procedures applicable in the cases of foreigners arrested at the border from the return procedures applicable in other cases. And, of course, the process of granting voluntary departure is being reformed, but the cases where the Greek police are now alone will give this right. Do you know what happened to the islands? The rejection decision came and instead of being held in PRECA and deported, they were asking for voluntary departure paper, they took the boat and they were leaving. They ended up in the squares in Athens and Thessaloniki for days. On the issue of digital groups, I will leave Mr Varvitsiotis, the Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, to present this provision. Since, however, we have asked about the result of corresponding arrangements in the past, I note that n.4146/2013, which I had the honour of proposing at the time, as State Secretary for Development, who introduced Golden Visa into our country for real estate investments, has brought investments in the country of EUR 3 billion. I would like to make a few final comments. On the issue of the staffing of the Ministry of Migration on the possibility of seconding civilian personnel, I would remind you that this is not now institutionalised by Law No.4375/16, the law of SYRIZA, ladies and gentlemen. You brought the uniforms to the immigration procedures. We are simply expanding the services in which this can be done. In addition to the fact that we are moving towards about five hundred and fifty permanent staff with the approval of the Ministerial Council to meet the needs of the Ministry, we are making use of civil servants and of posts that the law allowed posters. And I want to tell you that in 2021 for the first time a civil servant was assigned to the asylum service, while on days and days PASOK and SYRIZA had been posted to this main post. We talked to the committee when this was institutionalised. Well, it was institutionalised in 2011 with Law 3907, I have the FEK if anyone wants to see it, who says that at the Central Asylum Service a position of director is recommended, that is, a position of public responsibility in the hierarchy of the State, and the director is appointed by decision of the Minister of Civil Protection for three plus three years. And it took place for the first time with a government of KINAL, signed by a competent Minister of the Interior of the great executive today at SYRIZA. So you come many times and you complain about the unprecedented, you say, utilization of posters in positions of responsibility at the Ministry of Immigration when you legislated. Well, not so hypocrisy! In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the chapter on illegal immigration has been dealt with completely by the New Democracy Government. We are prepared to face a new crisis. We are clearly saying that we will not be the gateway to Europe for illegal migration flows. We will never again become the clear vine that we were in the past few years with the consequences that we islanders experienced first of all on our field. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u110	Mr Varvitsiotis, Deputy Minister for Foreign Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u111	Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that pandemic has changed the way the world and the global economy operates. Remote work and homework have now become one of the dominant ways in which the global economy develops. Faced with this challenge Greece today comes to start by introducing for the first time the status of hosting and working to those called digital nomads, i.e. the people who choose from the screen of their computer to work as a result in any part of the planet. It is something that we aspire to attract even more high-quality and resultant people, visitors to our country not only for a short period of holidays, but for a longer period through which they will be able to produce and possibly choose our country as one of the places they would like to invest. In Europe today, two countries have introduced a similar regime. This is Estonia, which is renowned for its digital transformation, but Croatia, which has now been very strongly involved in the tourism game of the Mediterranean. Mr. Scandalides, you may be having a problem with the Dodecanese, we want to bring you people to prolong your tourist season. And, of course, we can also bring people who produce large digital companies, such as 'AMAZON', 'MICROSOFT', who could stay here and produce abroad. You know in 2019, when the Mitsotakis government took over, it received a country which was dramatically lacking in attracting talented professionals and students according to an OECD survey. And we are trying in every possible way to bring the extroversion of the Greek economy forward by introducing new institutions, a policy we call Blue Carpet Policy. The blue one from the sea, the carpet because we are opening an entry carpet to anyone who wants to invest, operate in the country and, of course, the policy corresponds to a coherent policy, which starts from what the Minister, Mr Metarakis, said before, in relation to Golden Visa. We're talking about business visa. We talked about the student visa, which we also started today and we complete this puzzle with the digital nomad visa. At the same time, we are trying to modernise all the services of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs in relation to the performance of visa regimes, in order to digit and stop the suffering, which exists from too many in Greek consulates with serious shortages of staff and infrastructure. That is why today we are trying to approach all these digital nomads through simplified procedures and easy procedures not only to get their 12-month residence permit in the country, but also to extend this stay if they want to remain further. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware of the fact that immigration is an issue which will not end with a legislative challenge and, of course, it does not only have the negative aspect, but it also has the positive aspect of attracting people to your country who will add to the income produced, will add to the increase in the quality of life and, of course, the extroversion of the Greek economy. That is what we are trying to do through these procedures. At the same time, I think that our commitment to the Greek people is very well implemented by the Ministry of Migration Policy, which was not to close all those holes that had opened up to the entry and visa regime and to the regime for managing the immigration problem by the previous governments. Because, as we had quite rightly seen, anyone who entered the country through the big windows or smaller windows that were made in our legal system was actually not leaving and was never coming back. You had opened the door to the entrance, but you also opened the doors and windows of the stay of illegal immigrants in the country. Today, through these initiatives undertaken by the Ministry of Immigration, further shield against the phenomenon of illegal immigration. There is no doubt that there is no shortage of our legal culture, but also of our values in relation to what we call International Law for the protection of human rights and, in particular, the rights of refugees. For God's sake, Greece has shown a great deal of the spirit of its hospitality towards the devastated refugees, so it may have one of the largest numbers of people who have been put under the protection regime throughout the European Union. On the other hand, it would be a mistake in particular at the critical moment that we are living in Afghanistan and the developments in Afghanistan to proclaim a new stream of people, who are leaving this many-year-old country to say that Greece is not determined to defend both European borders and, of course, European culture. That is why the decision taken yesterday in the draft of the conclusions of the European Council on Home Affairs shows precisely the direction in which we must move in the future. We must support all the Afghans who leave Afghanistan in their stay in the neighbouring countries of Afghanistan so that this problem does not turn into a problem that will once again divide Europe and vertically and horizontally between the North and the South, between the East and the West, between the Right and the Left. Because the European values that we stand for, which are not other than the values of defending human rights, in no case give us the right to relax what we have signed and co-decided so many years together, and these are what is described in the Schengen Treaty on the free movement of persons, but at the same time on the protection of the European borders. That is why I believe that today's initiative deserves the support of the parties in this House and with regard to the digital nomads that I hope will be supported by all the opposition parties, but also all of them, because it shields our country precisely against the upcoming developments. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, too, Minister. Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Gregoriadis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek Parliament, a lot of dormant has been done in the past few days after Mr Mitsotakis' amazing reconstructing of the famous interview and the famous word of Mr. Plory's wonderful Minister of Health. Many people have rushed to make the shot, I think, an apologies to Mr. Ploris immediately or resign from the ministerial court that he has taken. Let us remind you a little of those who are listening to us and to you what he had said at the time, I must say quite old, Mr Ploris, in relation to the immigrants we are discussing today. He said: "We should make life like that of those who are here, so that the hell that they left back there in their homeland can imagine them now as heaven". Do you hear, Madam President, what he said? And it has supplemented - I am sorry to read, but I have to read why Mr Plory's exact words are in introductory terms - that 'There is no border guard if there are no dead at these borders'. Do you hear that? That's what your Minister, Mr. Ploris, said. And I ask you, the ministers you are here and above all Mr Metarakis, who is the Minister responsible. Mr Mitaraki, in fact with the bill you are bringing today and the 'improvements', with the brutality it holds in the reception and behaviour of refugees, migrants and all those who seek asylum, with this bill you bring and the stumbling blocks of all that you put, do you really feel that Mr. Ploris should apologis or resign from your resignation? Or should, as I am thinking now, after the bill that your resignation will be voting on today, the New Democracy very briefly apologise here and now by Mr. Ploris and you all quit his party, which he seems to be ruling for a long time? But that's the way it is. Mr. Floris prevailed in the New Democracy. The New Democracy we knew goes, pope! Look at the refugee - immigration - is a problem that, like all problems, did not fall out of the sky. Some of them created it. He said our Honorary President of our Parliament, Mr. Voutsi, will also be created for climate change. At the moment, however, these refugees, the millions of refugees and migrants, the about ten who travel around this land and leave them nowhere, they have no place to stand, they have no cave to hide, all of them have come from specific policies in which we are involved - Mr. Voutsis told you - as the European Union. We are involved in accepting Turkey as a safe destination for foreigners. What Turkey? Mr Erdogan's Turkey. And we are mainly concerned that in any such case, in any war, military or economic war that will lead and has created refuges, we have also sent a destroyer, we have sent a special unit with our cruisers, we have sent our Super Puma helicopter. We are also involved militaryly in the causes, so we are responsible, and we should think that we are also responsible for the solution. We are not the only ones responsible, and we are one of the least responsible. It is the European Union which you leave unavoidable and which you do not have to exercise the veto you have and you are entitled to exercise. The Greek people will hear it and hear it from me every time. All of you were entitled, and those who ruled before you and we did not exercise it, and so you do not force them to divide these poor people, the two million who are in Turkey now in all the countries of the European Union in proportion to the population of each of them. He said before the things I very much agree with, but I should remind him, as well as Mr Voutsi, that I had already reminded him that his government had exercised no veto, that Mr Vitsas, unfortunately, was Minister for Migration Policy from February 2018 until the 2019 elections. He spoke here a moment ago about the conversion of our country into a shield against the refugees - and the country is, in fact, like this - and condemned the illegal relocations to Turkey. I am sorry, however, that it is Mr Tsipras's government that signed the shameful and obscure agreement of the European Union - Turkey which recognises Turkey, not least, and that it is a safe country and makes Greece a shield of Europe with the illegal repropriations which, I am passing away, I will say that, apologise, former comrades, started under the minister of my loved one - Mr Vitsa, who is here and neighbours of the House and has developed a personal relationship. We're human. I'm on it. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, but most of all my dear workers in the Greek Parliament, Mickey Theodorakis was all of us together. And when I say all of us together, I don't just mean all of us in here together, but I mean all of us in here and all of us out there and all of us everywhere where there is Greece, but also outside Greece where on Earth there is and lives Hellenism. That was Mickey. They were all Greeks together. On the occasion of this thought, I would like to ask from my heart that we all try together to stop hurting other foreigners who are part of ourselves, Mr President. I would like to ask you, in other words, to stop systematically hurting ourselves. Every time the Greek state, which should express all of us, adopts illegal practices and violates international rules, but in particular violates the ancient unwritten laws of aid and solidarity, we hurt ourselves. Every time a Greek government, like the one for which for our bad luck we now have the new Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, accepts to "hack" the worst of the instincts of Greek society, thus feeding the xenophobic reflexes of the most extreme election of the audience, we are simply hurting ourselves. Every time such a government builds a huge fence and then shoots with plastic bullets hunted and working people trying to cross this fence to reach a shelter that is in the eyes of these people, Greece is simply hurting ourselves. And every night we all get in here to sleep, knowing that with illegal re-propulsions we have left us in a lifeboat in the middle of the sea, in deep-sea water, without a machine and no helmet, innocent people, and in many cases among them minor children or even infants, hoping - listen to it - that the Turks, ladies and gentlemen of the House should collect them, Minister and dear workers of this House, we are simply paying ourselves. We also drugize our future, because in future when you and I will have left this in vain world, but life will fortunately continue, our children, grandchildren and grandchildren will know that their sea, perhaps the most beautiful sea in the world, is at its bottom with a macabre sabbath of thousands of innocent fellow humans of all ages. What impact do you say, Mr Mitarakis, is that the knowledge and consciousness of this continuing crime taking place in our sea over the years, of course, on the responsibility of all the parties of the memorandum arc that thus renew their credentials as exemplary prisoners of their prisoners and of us? And, of course, with the help of all this and the orchestration of the illegal, 'illegal'! - by apologies for the neoliberalisation of Brussels, the illegal hierarchy, which I would remind you, Madam President, has involved this priesthood in the creation of wars and military and economic wars, which have eventually led all these people to wars in one way or another. What impact do you think it will have, ladies and gentlemen? Let me tell you what impact it will have: Temptations, guilt and deep shame for all of us, their ancestors along with this sense of an unjustly lost paradise, a stork who, when you become a fisherman or rejoice in swimming, can no longer forget that under his idyllic surface is merely a cemetery. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I began my speech with the words 'Mickey Theodorakis was all of us together' and I think that now we all have to try to make this one up to him somehow even a little bit. And if we succeed and deserve some time all of us to be even for a moment, then I imagine that we will feel the way he felt. I'm asking you all. How do you think he felt, the great Mickeys Theodorakis, that day fifty-one years ago, who were reaching a political refugee - yes, well listened, you are not wrong - hunted by the junta, who had already been imprisoned and tortured by him in the hospitable then yet, before McCrone, for all kinds of refugees in Paris? How did he feel? It must have felt, Madam President, firstly, deeply relieved that it has found shelter and asylum to recover its health, which has been so penalised in recent years by his prison in Bubulina, after Averof's prisons, with the great hunger strike that led him to hospitality, then his displacement to Zatuna Arcadia and, finally, his imprisonment in the Horopo camp. First, relieved, then, that he escaped from all of this and then, in the next few weeks and months he is with Melina and so many others, who had also been saved. Why were they saved? Because they had the chance to find the same shelter they were offered. I imagine all these people would feel reborn, planning and organising the continuation of resistance to dictatorship in every means and manner. I imagine, Mr. Metarakis, their happiness and gratitude that they found - you know what they found? - a foreign place to stand on him to fight, Madam President, to save their own place. I imagine their thrill to have at their side in this fair and beautiful and brave race you know who? Let me remind you: Jean Paul Sartre, Arthur Miller, Dmitry Sostakovic, Lawrence Olivie, Yv Montaan, and so many other known and unknown, just solidarity people from all over our planet. You know, ladies and gentlemen, what do all these well-known and unknown people who then decided to collide with Miki and our Greece have in common? You know? That they were strangers. That was their only audience, that they weren't Greek. Others were right, others were left, others were royal. One thing they had in common, that they were not Greek, that they were foreign, that they were "the others", those we do not know. And yet, they went into our trouble and understood us and decided to fight for our salvation and their ideals, of course, by making our case theirs. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I shall end in two minutes. So, now that we have felt, I suppose, a little bit like all of us would feel - I guess I do - then, flooded by the feelings of gratitude, solidarity, solidarity and the regeneration of hope, above all, for the fight to restore democracy, now that we all felt a little like him, I think, all of us here in this House should think about how we would then like the French Republic to be brought to our Mickey, but also to the hundreds of unwitting political refugees who were there with him. We would like to treat them as they were, or would we like, Mr Mitarakis, to treat them as we would treat them - not you, but Kyriakos Mitsotakis SA - today and even worse than tomorrow that this bill will have become the law of the state? What would you like, ladies and gentlemen? Answer me. You owe yourself first and immediately afterwards to your children and of course an answer to the Greek people. I, on behalf of Mera25, have already answered myself and my answer, Madam President, is that anyone who accepts, supports and votes for the implementation of such inhumane practices to the defenceless people who are in great need today has absolutely no right to present in this House how he grieves for the people of the world and for refugee purposes for our Mickey. And if it becomes our state law today's draft law, Mr. Mitarakis, those who vote will only have managed to hurt yourself once more. I'm sorry. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, Mr. Scandalidis, followed by Mr. Moraitis, Mr. Hetas, Mr. Bogdanos, Mrs. Pulou and Mr. Cappatos. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u115	Now go balance between the burning word of the Minister and the poetic and revolutionary odor of my friend Clana. It's a little hard to imagine. Minister, even if you claim the title of representative of Christian Greece, you could do so with a different reason and style. But I'll come to that ideology you put to the end. Perhaps, however, this is defensive, because it is more than clear that your government has recently not been doing so well. It does not even go well in communication, which was considered the "heavy artillery" of its hegemony. She sees for the first time after two years negative publications in her friendly press. The Prime Minister's leadership is questioned. From the inability to achieve the targets of vaccination and the catastrophic fires in August we reached the remodeling - parody. How can they rely on all these things? What do you want someone to write? If you have triumphed as a columnist for the vote on the new Civil Protection Act, if you wrote about the state that is finally preparing for the anti-nuclear era, what can you write when whole areas become a paradox of fire? So your communication policy is not working well, and it is obviously not a matter of communicationists. What can communicationists do even in the face of cruel reality? A reality that I am saying brings to the fore what you have not yet seen in its size, the explosive mixture of shrinking incomes and uncontrollable increases in goods. The grace period, Mr Minister, may have kept more than expected, but it now has a visible expiry date. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a draft law which is part of the government's effort to change agendas. It was, however, lost in the developments of the days. There are many interesting ways in which the government has dealt with developments in Afghanistan, to start there. The speed he went to control the border seemed faster than the one the Taliban captured. They were still burning fires, and the Minister went to see the fence rushed, as if the uprooted from Afghanistan had begun and were on the doors of our country. Because they very simply thought it was win-win situation to prevent flows of immigrants and refugees when they are not yet there. An ultimate state, of course, would understand that in this first phase, after a humanitarian and geopolitical shock that occurred with us, but not with us, the rapid intervention force is that of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs either alone or within the framework of the European Union and NATO. Almost complete nonexistence. It is embarrassing for the country that we have been unable to protect the few Afghan associates of the Greek Armed Forces there, contrary to what the other European countries have done and while the issue has been being discussed in the United States, France, Germany and Italy for months. No prep! From Facebook posts and newspaper reports the government was informed and began to engage, unfortunately unsuccessfully. If selfishness cannot be organized, how can one expect a firm foreign policy? As a movement of change, with principles that we thought were common to every European party in this House, we stand alongside those in Afghanistan and those at risk. We are at the outset even the international community, particularly the West, must not delay, not to look elsewhere, to monitor developments and to try to prevent them. It is impressive indeed the way in which officials and government ministers have dealt with the issue, even the Prime Minister himself. "We won't get one," one said. "We will not be a gateway," said the other. But no one said we could get someone whose poor Afghans are still there. The Change Movement, for all possible reasons one might think, agrees that the first step is to address the needs of refugees in neighbouring countries. But he also agrees with what the Prime Minister refused yesterday, in disagreement with the Italian President of the European Parliament, Mr Sasoli. The Member States of the European Union and NATO must do their utmost to welcome refugees on their territory directly from neighbouring countries. Greece cannot disagree with such a development, with which few refugees account, and this will reduce the possible pressure on our borders. He cannot disagree because this is how he stands in the same camp as the Visegrad countries, whose anti-immigration rhetoric and politics leads to Greece becoming a store of souls for all refugees and immigrants coming from the East. Because if they arrive in our country, we are waiting for a similar decision to share asylum seekers proportionately in Europe. This is a clear national position you cannot blur her. I come to today's draft law. It's a falsified editor. The returns and deportations of those who are not entitled to be in our country are self-evident. But how is it done? Certainly not with the regulations that the government brings. It's misleading how you present the draft law. Will Turkey take back some people because the draft law will be passed in a few hours or Pakistan, Bangladesh, Iran and Iraq? There won't be a return! Because the main problem that it accepts cannot be solved by the European Union, and it is also the difficulties that exist since the return decision. That's where the long delays are. How many people are in Amygdaleza today, how long have they been there and how many have they got departure date for their country? With your own government, not SYRIZA or someone else. You should explain this to Parliament and the Greek people and not on heavy grounds. What is actually accelerating is the loss of the residence permit to be found in dry people. Shortly, if you do not change your decision to define Turkey as a safe country for citizens of five countries, tens of thousands of Syrians and Afghans will be found without paper, namely on the road. Athens, above all, will live through terrible moments, with homeless and mourners who will not be able to go either in the front or back, with children on the road, to protest against the violation of rights and secretly smile at the satisfaction of our voluntary commitment - and I would like to add an additional code - obligations which are theirs. Can you explain why the Prime Minister in the two talks he had recently with Erdogan didn't raise the matter? Stop treating your ministry as a propaganda ministry. It will collapse your account in the first crisis, either at the border or at the pharaonic structures that you are preparing on the islands and Evros, or in the center of Athens. And then it won't be enough for your three transcriptions from LAOS to fish for votes in blurred waters. Treat your responsibilities as they really are. Your job is not to guard the borders, Minister. We have police, port and army on this matter. It's not a security body your department has found out you're going to give me a merchandise. It is a very important political service for the country, for social cohesion and development, for about six hundred thousand legal immigrants living decades and with your responsibility they do not even have services to address or renew the licenses they are entitled to. Along with the structures, serve administrative services to speed up procedures, so that they don't come back without papers on the streets of Athens. Submission cancels all your plans in practice, either for returns or for investments. This draft law has a few provisions that can withstand criticism and have some real interest. The license for digital nomads, changes in seasonal work have an interest. It's a real immigration policy. You have wronged these two issues. They should be further discussed. Seasonal work is of interest to many thousands of Greek farmers, trade unions for foreigners themselves. SYRIZA had managed it with a parliamentary amendment I remember MacKy Balaura perhaps cuffed and ineffectively. Now you are clutching the SYRIZA amendment and you are bringing changes that cannot be discussed at the last minute, with an amendment - a broom at the same time. Mr Minister, we have waited for an amendment from you to be the truth, even at the last minute. We hoped you would keep the promise you made by the Secretary of State's mouth to a very sensitive category of young people who are the children of migrants who have grown up in Greece who have gone to Greek schools, such as Androniki Kiftis who faces a problem because of the failure of the legislator when he introduced the second generation license in 2014. Can we not renew as a country of residence permits because some young people and young people are studying or finding work abroad? They are two young women we know about this problem. One is doing doctoral studies in America, and the other is a flight attendant. Greek women who drive them away from home, whose parents have residence permits, will take Greek citizenship, and they suddenly become foreigners. Homeland is our childhood, Minister, where we are growing up. It doesn't change that for anyone, no matter how ideological exaggerations to promote. It's not just Yannis Antetokubo the second generation of immigrants. It's not only Yiannis Antetokounbo Greeks with a migratory origin. There's no evidence of our sensitivity only by posting for the NBA Championship. We have tabled an amendment which solves the problem that has been created so that this category of compatriots can acquire Greek citizenship, because it is a really barbaric moment when one does in his home country. We call on you to accept our amendment and I think it is also a self-evident obligation. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude with a more general observation and encouragement, words which we have often spoken in this Chamber, but which ultimately remain words. Since the beginning of the 1990s the planet has entered a new era, as opening borders has led to the first massive migration flows. Since then those dealing with wider geopolitical issues have been talking about dramatic worsening and demographic overthrowing and about a problem that in the 21st century will be from the dominant. Millions of people from Asia, Africa, South America will seek fate in the sun. Greece and Europe will be at the heart of developments in the next few years. Neither the European Union has realised the scale of the problem nor the preparation of the Greek state to respond to the necessary procedures has been a match to its size. I'm not dogmatic on the one hand and on the other. Obviously Greece has a border, Minister. Apparently, he's got to keep them. Obviously there must also be forces that protect the borders. Obviously, the Greek state must also have organised the social integration of people who come and become lawfully in our country. Your bill doesn't even interfere to the minimum on these big issues. He's just trying to overcome the need with some management options. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm going to need two more minutes, Madam President. Even worse, more problems create rather than change the existing situation for the better. You are prepared in these directions. Renewal, extension, modernisation of structures on the islands. I will say, yes, the structures cannot deny them as an idea and as an institution, as a structure, which can, indeed, support an effort and help in a transitional situation. But it's not just structures. All European countries have a policy of dispersal organized by you, because you cannot deal with the mayors and institutions of the country, you have come to say'structures'. So I think that's a big, huge problem. And you cannot say here with numbers, 'those who came then, in 2015', 'those who were today', 'those who were yesterday', 'those who will be tomorrow', because it is not only dependent on the structures and the deterrent force that we have especially within this European Union, but it depends largely on Mr Erdogan's wishes, which at any time opens the string. And I don't think this time it's so frightened by FRONTEX and the guarding of the sea borders that it doesn't open and it's closed and it's never gonna open again. Do not say, then, about what is going to happen in the coming years. It's a very sensitive subject to treating it that way. I'm coming to the last point. Minister, political lionism and ideological acrobatia are dangerous things in Greek political life. Christian Greece is in great contrast with the preaching you are doing, because the essence of the Orthodox faith is humanitarian and is above all for it man and his freedom and the freedom of conscience. So do not invoke Christian Greece. Most Greeks have their own religion, as every man carries a god in it. This cannot be an ideological confrontation in the 21st century in the Greek Parliament. A Orthodox Christian speaks to you with conscience of what he is. There is no need for political lionism, therefore, that this is where we did this and you did nothing, etc. Let's all sit together and see how this problem is solved. It cannot be dealt with by any party separately. It can't be done! Only right-wing must stay on the sidelines of history when we face similar problems. I therefore advise you - and I am a little older than you - to change the style and tactics, so that we can help all of us to solve the problem of what future generations will have with them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Moraite has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Madam President. We are discussing a bill that is very important. And I would agree with the way Mr Scandalidis closed down, that, that is, it is an issue that is not just a matter for us, but will be very much involved in the next generation. However, ladies and gentlemen, I want to change the subject. And I am actually forced to change the subject, Madam President, because in addition to this bill - which, in fact, requires proper seriousness, discussion and analysis, if you wish - another mini-legislative bill was tabled by Mr yesterday afternoon. Ignorant with twelve articles, which in fact comes to get back all of what was proposed and voted for by the Members of the Chamber three months ago and to devour all of the account he had in the last two years. The text that brings to the vote on the substance - as I have said, is a mini-legislative bill - I could call it an epitome of maladministration, but I think it goes beyond me. It is shameful for Parliament that such important issues, which have run across our country internationally, have been brought to the fore in this way that Mr Aygeakis is attempting. And the most dreadful of all is that in confrontation with our Parliamentary spokesman this morning - because three minutes he dedicated for his twelve articles and all his recurring in the field of sport - all he answered is "you don't know and, if you want me to inform you, you can table a timely question and come here to say it all." It is a shame sincerely in 2021, with the problems and the deadlocks created by Mr Aygeakis in sport, the mess he has brought, in this way devaluing the parliamentary procedure. But what does this mini bill reveal? It reveals the curiosity, inability, the diligence with which the Deputy Minister of Sports is now facing the big and critical issues of the site, reveals the way he sees, perceives the exercise of administration. The lack of a plan is now clear and we can certainly see every time in Parliament's Chamber the so-called 'all-collective card'. He is in one thing, however, faithful, Mr Aygeakis, and I would like to stress that. He is a two-year turf of the interests of the sporting sector and nothing else. All he does is raise problems, perpetuate the mess and try to throw the blame on everyone else. Of course, it is now clear that all arrows are on top of it and I believe that he should assume his responsibilities. So I come to his criminal incompetence and inertia which led to the definitive lifting of the certification of the Athens laboratory from WADA, because from Article 1 to 8, and with the information I will mention to you later, this has to do with the mini-legislative, a decision that has dragged our country away, as I said before. All Mr Autgeakis has done for a year and a half now was to talk about SYRIZA's great responsibilities in the field of anti-doping, how he did not act, what he did not do. And after two years WADA has reached us, given time limits, not to catch them and hopefully, on the basis of what Mr Augarians said today, that 14 September will probably restore the problem. And we wish that. We do not want this situation for our country, nor should international organisations treat us in this way. But he came in here and swinged his finger on SYRIZA. So I would suggest that he forget it in the next few months, because he will now find more ahead. So it runs now to cover everything with this mini bill. And I want to remind you that beyond our own interventions as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, he came and revealed him, and DIMMOCRITOS himself, who, if you like, pointed out his inertia and his sole responsibility because he was unable, within two years, to recruit the necessary scientific staff for the Athens workshop, nor to complete the tenders for the supply of the technology, and that is why we arrived at this point. We have also asked a topical question. And the evidence of your own government shows that no one in the EEC has been hired, despite two officials from the General Secretariat who have applied for secondment there, when the organization's organic positions are now more than twenty-fifths. I could say more, but there is something else that is very important and I think it is just there that the entire Ausgeakis account is degraded. He goes back to making changes with the dates for the register and for the use of sports spaces. Today he told us - and I listened very carefully - that what he is mainly interested in is a clear landscape - I use his words - a class in sport and that our athletes should not be nervous. In sport the scenery isn't even gray, it's black. As far as order is concerned, there's a dissolution and a mess. And with regard to the stress of the athletes, for the first time we have Olympics sending this message to the sports leadership and the government, who have been sent to them for the first time for the abandonment they are experiencing. This is the reality of sport today. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I'm coming to the register, and I need a minute, Madam President. They were changing dates after each other. The purpose and purpose of what was it? Use the register as a tool of the government to be able to enforce the administrations they wanted in the sports federations. The positive here is that the world of sport sent its own message, stood up against these pursuits and turned their back. But the fact that he has worked in the register is now clear from the deadlines given. We were telling you a year ago, leave two years for the register so that it can be completed. It was our proposal. And from that it seems that we are now entitled to it, because we have been closed a year already. We're definitely going to two. And you didn't want to do that, because all the dates you set were in connection with various electoral procedures in federations. Finally, Madam President, I would like to end by saying that we are voting 'at present' in this mini-legislative bill - an amendment by Mr Aygeakis, because we do not want to become accomplices to the deportation and dismantling of Greek sport attempted by the Mitsotakis Government. For the government, it is clear that sport is a commodity and not a social asset. We represent two different worlds with the Government and Mr. Aegeanakis. We see sport as culture, as education, as good linked to the quality of life, the physical and mental health of people. And it's our responsibility to defend him. At the heart of our glance is the man, the athlete, the athlete, the amateur union. Our aim is to remove sport from the rigidity and decency that the current government has set him up. And our responsibility is great athletics in the next few weeks to return page. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u118	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. I find it accidental that five minutes while the programme had been announced before I spoke, Mr Metarakis chose to take his break and drink his coffee. I hope he hears us out there. Mrs Vulture, this is not about you. We would just like the Minister to be here, who was informed and preferred to go out. He told us things here. You told us that you closed structures, Mr Metarakis, and you are proud to say so. But you are not telling us that you have closed many small structures and built five-star hotels, five, ten, fifteen thousand people. And you have not answered the crucial question. All those people who left, where are they? Where did they go? You don't answer that and you insist. Now for Claon Gregoryad, all right, we didn't need today's show to confirm that he's a very good actor. But everything has a limit. When the parties on the left speak, these merciful parties - as if the rest of us are inhumane, only you have feelings and are interested - in illegal reprocesses, also in illegal propulsion, and not just in reproaching and calling them illegal. So, look at the illegal invasions in our country. And you said to ask ourselves about our future, that we are changing our population. Are you wondering about our future, about what future we're going to deliver to our children with the alteration of our social fabric and our population? You don't care! Mrs. Vultesis, Madam Secretary, since Mr. Metarakis doesn't do us the honors and is out, what really to start with about your bill? What should we start about government policy? We are in the national Parliament, in the Greek Parliament and we are called upon to legislate for the sake of the country, the country and the Greek citizens. Finally, we have not proved too obsessed or obsessed with what we have been talking about for two years now about the huge problem of illegal immigration and all the traffickers. And what we haven't heard for two years from all of you in here. And don't tell me that many of those who have flooded our country are refugees. We've made this clear. It's not. They are illegals who act organised and exploit situations and circumstances. But you will allow me now - because this was really creepy the other day - to read out a passage from Mr Mitarakis' speech from yesterday's committee on meals in hosting structures of citizens of third countries, etc. and I address the Greeks and Greeks. What was that? A committee where Mr. Mitarakis has undertaken to inform us, so the National Representation, which means that Greek women and Greeks will be given more than 40 thousand illegal immigrants, the cost of which exceeds 1 billion, over 900 million euros. I read from the Minutes, not the text of the Greek Solution, what Mr Mitarakis said. The framework agreement includes a general pool for adults and a special diet for diabetics for vulnerable groups. There is an indicative weekly diet that includes breakfast, lunch, dinner, that outweighs the calories of the benefits. At the same time, any differences based on religious beliefs are taken into account! - which, of course, our country absolutely respects. Indicative - now listen Greeks, Greeks - such a meal may include for breakfast a combination of fruits, pies, nuts, croissants, sandwiches, for lunch combination of meat, chicken, oily, pasta, fish, accompanying, fresh salad, for dinner a combination of oil, omelet, legumes, salad of season, includes Arabic pies, enough bottled drinking water. Are the thermal needs really overcompensated? Can we put something else on? What's this, guys? Where are they being directed? Symphony comes a comparison for what I'm going to say. At the same time that the Greek people suffer by offering sacrifices, patience, they are unemployed, without pension, they cut their current, you double the electricity price - Georgiadis goes out and tells us that we will pay 5 euros of coffee! -, there's appreciation on the bread, we have the menu, Mr. Mitarakis, and we'll see you in the Greek Parliament! Are all those who illegally wanted to enter our country with $1 billion? And don't tell me European Union. We are also a member of the European Union, which means that we are paying a great deal of money from it on the basis of a budget that has been voted on here comes from the pocket of Greek and Greek, Minister. After that, what can I say about the bill? What can we really say? That's what people hear about getting their hair up out there. These are the laws of the Greek Parliament. Incredible things! For the purpose of granting a residence permit for reasons of mercy, humanitarian or other reasons provided for, to a citizen of a third country who is illegally staying on Greek territory what should we say? That if their application is rejected - listen - for a permit, to say it simply, appeal and move freely. That's what the bill stipulates. And you have the courage to ask for our consent. Guys, this isn't happening! Why are you offering everyone health care at the same time that in Greece there's a total mess of real in hospitals, a mess of real? But this is where care is planned. On the fact that the bill makes some changes to the asylum procedure and to residence permits, while the problem is becoming more and more acute, while crime is increasing? But the culmination of all this, Mr Mitaraki, Minister, Madam Secretary, is that you give the NGOs authority to attempt, like the Port House, in cases of irregular entry of persons by sea. In other words, will the NGOs be running to save the illegals at sea? Where and where? Soon we will also see NGOs attempting on land! That's what we'll see, terrible things really. You yourself also think that things will get worse after the developments in Afghanistan. You said that, 'he's coming badly.' But the problem of our country is not how we take care of these people. Oh, no. The point is that those who are not entitled to asylum should return immediately to their countries and prevent new waves of illegal immigration. That's the problem. Because the problem will remain here and will be concerned, such as plague, and the next generations, while we are still dealing with it. As what? As a host country and as a country of protection and offering all that I described a moment ago. Obviously, there will be. But if that is where we have a clear position, Mr Mitsarakis, as Chancellor of Austria said, Mr Kurts 'end', then it is over. There's no end here, no end. What's got to be done? You're asking. Armoring, sealing our land and sea borders. Yes, gentlemen of the Left and of Mera25, we must. What about Greece? Are you crying because we have a fence? Half the business they did here again. Wall had to do, not fence. Because when we talked again, we were overreacting. Now go and move the fences there, see if they're solid. You woke up after five to six months and more. From the beginning, we said how necessary it was to build a wall on Evros. Now you're the one who put a fence. But at sea too. Even the Kythiras arrived. We'll see them in Sunio in a bit. At Kythira they were the other day. We've said from day one, Mrs. Vulture, close the NGOs! What are you waiting for? You had a firework, three or four, you shut them down, you checked them out and you left them now. Close the NGOs. Not controlled. It is the cancer of the problem by NGOs. You know the source of evil. Close the NGOs, the ones who exploit and collaps from European money. It's a business, don't you understand? It's Bizna! Direct and temporary movement of all illegal immigrants into uninhabited islands, with human infrastructure, until they leave here. Implementation of the Geneva Convention and of the exemption provided for in Article 33, which provides for the re-launching for reasons of national security and public order. There are reasons for serious national security and public order here. It has become Athens Kabul and Islamabad province. Exercise of pressure on the European Union for substantial solidarity, Mr Mitarakis. It is not possible for the country to lift any more weight, this huge burden, and our partners simply to sympathize and send us money, crumbs, to get them three portions of food a day, legumes, vegetables, chicken, fish and juice. All of this, at the same time that Mr Georgiades has already warned us and threatens us to enter the e-consumer - so he told the Greek citizens - to see the prices, that coffee will go to 5 euros. Starbucket for generalized dishwasher. Revaluations in feed. That's a big deal. They are approaching 50% and the increase will also be passed on to the first-ever species. Milk, cheese, everything will grow. And the companies, with the power increase, 50% over. What's that thing? Increase in bread 20%. These apply to the Greeks. And these, Mr Mitarakis, which I read earlier from the Minutes of the House are the menu of the "Matearakis Restaurant". That's the difference. We will be waiting, Madam President, for us to go to the health issue, to the chaos that prevails in all hospitals today. Because your political wizard will appear here, apply what you say. The tough, heavy, Mr. Plearis, who took over a special mission to do now - we will see him at 16.00, who will come here - was very tough and called 'vitam'. So, 'vitam'. Because for others it has started and has finally informed us that the suspension of those who regret it and decide to be vaccinated is being lifted. At first you were very angry and very tough and ready for everything. Now what, what changes and how do the uninvasive people in hospitals have been working for the past two 24 hours, where is it really a mess? Children's playground, government playground, at all, from remodelling to the ones you're doing on health. Children's joy really! And in all this, General Gisaris of NIMITS resigned from the vaccine. Heads of military care. These are your kids. These are your works and your days. That's what you have to say to the Greek people. Mr. Metarakis, the best thing we left for the end. An amendment that brings together, ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, enthusiasms and contributors, the Ministry of Migration, Mr Metarakis, 1055, the memorial of migration aid. What's that? This memorial, listen, will be awarded by decision of the Minister to Greeks or foreigners who have made a decisive contribution to tackling the migratory crisis and the impact on local communities. On a proposal from the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mitsarakis, the hierarchical order and the kinds of medals are defined. We'll give medals. We'll give medals, you know? Memorial medals. So you couldn't give a medal to this humanist, the salt card, the leftover, the Apostolopoulos, who had the courage to be awarded by the President of the Republic as well and who properly ruled out him, how will it go next year? Why don't the NGOs go? Shouldn't all these Apostolians go? These are, of course, extinct in the fires, disappearing in the earthquakes, disappearing when Greece is flooding. There's no marmita. This is marmita. That's all. Will you give medals, Mr. Metarakis? What are you doing? Mini Olympic Games? Will you give medals to them? Don't get worse. What can I really say, Minister, I have no words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Constantine Bogdan has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, let's start with what we agree with. What kind of society do we want to be? The vast majority of Greeks and Greeks, apart from ideological differences and electoral preferences, want to be a free, prosperous, fair, prosperous and inclusive society, where all of them - religions, religions, leftists, centralists, women, heterosexuals, homosexuals, LGBTKI people - we will live with mutual respect in an environment of democratic rules of equality and democracy, where every man will be able to make his choices of life. We want, in other words, to be a western, liberal society and, of course, a democracy. And liberal society didn't come up just like that. He was born in the environment of the West, as a product of Greek and Jewish Christian tradition, he was fermented from generation to generation, matured with the wisdom of centuries and is the tempting result of a long and often difficult process of evolution and tradition. And our liberal society precisely has two basic conditions. The first is what is said in the political theory, its pre-political foundations, our culture, our values, history, common achievements, what our dominant culture has shaped, that is, the elements that continue to exist in people, give him a sense of conscience, common good and joint missions, of course, open and available to anyone who actively wants to adopt them, but not at all. The second condition is, of course, nomadicism, that is to say, the unnecessarily application of laws, everywhere and for everyone. If we do not preserve these conditions, our freedom will be lost, as President Reagan wisely said, 'Freedom is never more than a generation from its disappearance'. Speaking today of another bill on the modern historical phenomenon of mass migration from the Islamic East to the West, we must begin with an admission. Our society, free, western society, is absolutely incompatible with Islam, that is to say, the radicalised political expression of Muslim religion. And as we saw recently in Afghanistan freedom is not a clothing you can barely wear to someone who doesn't even like it. And whoever puts the Koran above the Constitution, as unfortunately on my own show in 2016 has also declared its president here Pakistani community, has no place in the West. Let me say it again. Those who disagree with the nature of the Constitution of the Hellenic Republic and the fundamental principles which this reflects do not have a place in our country. Unfortunately, some of her so-called rightmakers seem unaware of this. I am referring, of course, to the Left, which even as a government in Greece has encouraged illegal immigration, by circumventing fundamental principles of our state, which impose the guarding of borders, compliance with the rules, the defence of the very foundations of our democracy. But I will not stay in the mistakes of the previous government. After all, her mercenary is the result of an ideology that, after the collapse of her economic theory since the 1990s, she has sought new ways to divide societies, beating our culture itself together, including the nation and Christianity, that is, the first world revolution that has established that there are no masters and slaves, do not mean discrimination on the basis of sex, race and color, whether or not it is able to break down capitalism. Ladies and gentlemen, of course the bill under discussion is moving in the right direction. But there are no mistakes that have been made and still are made. I would remind you of the tens of thousands of illegal immigrants who entered the country before the Ministry's re-establishment and Erdogan's asymmetrical invasion of Evros, who gave us the opportunity to prove that borders - maritime and land - can indeed be guarded, as we are doing today. I would remind you of the mistake - unfortunately - that by giving asylum to the majority of the applicants, they would go to other European countries and at the same time point to a number of issues that need attention, which I am sure the government will: The fact, Minister, that it continues to allow the movement of women who have covered the characteristics of their faces and their bodies to be completely unacceptable and insulting to human beings and gender equality, as at least it understands these concepts of Western civilization, in the bourgeoisie. While we correctly opened the mosque in the Botanic, hundreds of illegal mosques still operate, without anyone knowing for sure whether they are places of worship or something else. The fact that the populations that were rightly evacuated from the islands got rid of it in Athens. The fact that in practice the ESTIA programme for the housing of refugees does not concern all sixty-four municipalities of Lecanopedi, but only two districts in the centre of Athens, asymmetrically degrading neighbourhoods already in place. The fact that on August 14, Kotzia Square was awarded for an event in the Pakistani community, where young children were wearing military uniforms and performing precision exercises, while the rest of the citizens were restricted by COVID measures, was allowed once again the public to bloody custom of automation in Piraeus for the Shia Festival Asura. The fact that while COVID was banned throughout the territory, the Panagia icon is all-emigrated, the immigrant doll Amal is melted all the time. The fact that non-governmental organisations have not been adequately monitored. Ladies and gentlemen, perhaps some people find me excessive. However, as a Member of Athens, I see what is happening in the Greek capital. Next to the Greek residents, next to the households and the well-prepared legal immigrants - many of whom have been fully integrated with their families in Hellenism - some of them, literally thrown out in the neighborhoods of the city, are ruining what our parents, grandparents and grandparents have built. If we don't wake up now, two things will happen. On the one hand, the ghettos will be consolidated in Athens and, on the other, similar phenomena will be diffused in the rest of the country, that is, in the regions where you now have the luxury of whistling indifferently. So if we want our children and children to live freely and democratically, then we must now be firm. Anyone who is not really entitled to asylum must leave. Anyone who took asylum and is criminalised must leave and whoever remains must comply fully with the rules of our liberal society. If, by the end of our term of office, we do not cure the problems, we will not only damage the party, but we will first damage the country itself. I hope, therefore, that today's bill will prove - as it shows - a good step in the right direction. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mrs Pulou, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have already said farewell from this Step to Mickey Theodorakis yesterday, but it is worth transporting you today, because I heard something this morning, a BBC news. Even in Kabul in 2001 the Afghans welcomed the peacekeeping forces with the song "The Antonis" by Mickey Theodorakis. Mickey Theodorakis, the ecumenical, the great! Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the Legislation of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum finds the country caught at a very difficult time. In health, education, the economy and the environment, citizens do not have time to count openly, to grind up new wounds that New Democracy's government policy does not help them to close down. However, a society with pressing problems, on the one hand, and a government with short-circumcised and completely helpless, on the other hand, is not a good combination at all. A government that cannot even complete its reshape, a lame and incomplete remodeling that Mr Mitsotakis has attempted on the ashes of the three thousand acres of all two thousand devastated dwellings, which the so-called state of government has finally failed to protect or did not want to protect, if we believe the first statements - complaints by the district manager of my own region, Central Greece. Because the truth is that with this supposed remodeling, Mr. Mitsotakis wanted us to forget that he insulted the citizens, saying that they are all asking for a helicopter above their home, but also that he committed the incredible political bombardment to compare human lives with acres, forgetting that he left the country without forest maps in 2011, opening a path to the ambitious public land trespassers, but also without the five thousand employees in the forest protection that SYRIZA had secured through the OAS programme. In addition to the ashes of the forest, he tried to forget the ashes of the dreams of forty thousand children that the Kerameos-Mitsotakis cut off from the universities to send customers to private colleges. We do not forget, however, that Mr Mitsotakis' reshape was not intended to serve the public interest, but to harm and break up opposition, even invoking the notion of consensus, while trying to deceive and frame a worthy member of the SYRIZA government. This is the prime minister's only concern. In the disaster storm, all he thought was how to hurt SYRIZA. But all he finally achieved was a governmental shape weak, where the extreme right-wing mutation of the New Democracy is now complete. As for his statements on the independent Ministry of Civil Protection to deal with the climate crisis, they seem to have been exhausted after Mr Apostolakis' refusal. We're wondering. Are there really not proper executives in your lineup or across the country to carry out these tasks? We're expecting developments. But society, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is not interested in the desperate methods of a panic Prime Minister. What he wants is solutions and above all calls for solutions to the critical pandemic front. Where the numbers of new cases, intubations and deaths are negligible. Bring the sole responsibility, since again Mr.Mitsotakis called on young people to be vaccinated to return to normality and to enjoy the summer and holidays. Last September began with about two hundred new cases on a daily basis and almost zero deaths. While this year began with about two thousand nine hundred new cases every day, and deaths approach the fifty. Everything shows that the pandemic returns further through the Delta mutation and captures the government for the second time in deep sleep. Another whole year went lost. The tragic failure of the vaccination campaign can no longer be covered by the gold-paid publications of the State media system. The number of vaccinated in Greece is set at about 50%. One of the lowest in Europe. In a total of thirty European countries, Greece is in the 20th place in one dose vaccinated vaccine and one-seventh in the seventeenth in full vaccinated. With your foreign policy you have not managed to convince citizens to be vaccinated, and now bet everything on a new national split by targeting our inconvenienced citizens. Once again, government responsibility is baptised by individual and loaded to the citizens and, together with responsibility, you are also loading 80 euros a month for COVID tests, while private diagnostic centres rub their hands. All you have to do is survive politically, even if you divide society. But citizens experience every day the grim image of the decomposition of the National Health System you create, without the recruitment, without its support, with new infrastructure and equipment. At a time when no doctor and nurses are surpassing, you are launching the closure of regional hospitals - that's what the Prime Minister announced - you are putting six thousand sanitaries on a job suspension. You leave four thousand contractors in the health sector in a work hostage, while the continued suspension of permits for purified health workers from the beginning of the pandemic has already led to resignations, such as in Rethymno of Intensives. But the rest of our hospital health staff has now crossed the thresholds by overworking. Also, with your judicial and penal policy you are condemning working precariousness and other workers in institutions and social services of the municipalities, such as "Help at Home". These people, whom you supposedly applauded with gratitude for the principles of pandemic, are now trying to put them as ineffective and irresponsible. Heroes suddenly became traitors. It is no accident that the Prime Minister chose to lead the combined attack on our fellow citizens who have not yet been vaccinated but also on public health as a whole. Mr. Ploris, a partner and competitor of the negligents until yesterday, has now been called upon to speak to them, but also to use the self-evident need for mass vaccination of health workers in contact with patients as an alibi for the dissolution of the ESS, with suspension of labour and wage cuts, so that the road to private interests can be opened wide. On this point, Madam President, I would like to inform the House that the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group will table a request for a roll-call vote on Amendment No 1054 and a special 9 tabled by Minister Plearis, who, at an authorized service in the Ministry of Health at the earliest opportunity, delivers you neural services of the public health system to individuals. In spite of the criticism of the opposition parties and the reactions of the social actors, you are continuing the catastrophic classic in favour of your few policies by expanding inequalities in all social fields. The first residence, work, education, health, the environment, freedoms and rights, and social security. Prime Minister Mitsotakis and his Government understand the state as their property, which they manage as manager not on the basis of public interest, but on the basis of the appetites of the great interests they support them. Let's move on to the bill, ladies and gentlemen. The Government of New Democracy does not hesitate, as we have seen, to work on major natural disasters, making incomprehensible and macabre comparisons, with a single objective: to unleash its own enormous responsibilities. It seems, however, that this is not enough. With the Communication Show of Civil Protection and National Defence Ministers in Evros a few days ago and now with the bill you bring to the House, Minister, you prove that you are making use of the same speeches of micropolitical and major international crises. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Political trembling is obviously the favourite sport of your resignation. That is why you are choosing to bring this bill to Parliament at a time when developments in Afghanistan are once again launching the refugee at the top of the world agenda. Replacing the Taliban regime, after two decades of US military presence and two hundred and fifty thousand deaths, meant the collapse of the Western geopolitical model of exporting democracy and building states through armed interventions and invasions. It has been shown that these practices not only violate international law and national sovereignty, but are ultimately ineffective. However, the rapid collapse of the Afghan Government after the withdrawal of the US forces once again exposed the atmosphere, passivity and the lack of an autonomous foreign policy of the European Union. That is why SYRIZA President Alexis Tsipras has been calling for the European Council to be convened as a matter of urgency and for the United Nations, the European Union and the countries of the region to take a joint initiative in order to establish strict diplomatic and economic conditions in the Taliban regime. This call for common sense, however, was not heard. All right-wing and far-right governments are currently using the crisis in Afghanistan to fish for votes in the blurred waters of geopolitical instability. And, of course, yours is not an exception, Minister. Your aim is to re-energize xenophobic reflexes, market cheap nationalism and turn public attention away from the hot problems that afflict the country. Reconstructing the ghost of a supposed threat from uncontrolled migration flows, which you anticipate that Turkey will work, you are trying to confirm the doctrine of a deterrence. That is why you again propose returns, expulsions and detention for everyone as the only way to maintain a complex issue. After so many internal failures you are anxiously seeking a so - called success. After leaving the fire forests, hospitals without doctors and nurses, promise now that you will defend the national borders as vigilant guards and the refugee fortress Europe. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I'm going to need two more minutes. Because you are, of course, hiding behind the responsibilities of the European Union, which, by mocking right-wing and extreme right-wing governments, does not establish institutional solidarity and the compulsory proportional sharing of refugees and asylum seekers. In your efforts, however, you are now demolishing the last institutional guarantees of protection of the asylum procedure. With the proposed arrangements in this bill you are opening a large window of abuse of expulsion and return procedures, and you are creating the conditions for violating the guarantees of Union and international law. In addition, you are very criminalising the involvement of civil society in the rescue of people, restricting the possibility of granting residence permits for exceptional reasons, introducing a paradox for the submission of a subsequent request for asylum, placing non-political staff in the reception and identification service, and in general doing everything to undermine the right of refugees to effective and personalised examination of their requests. We are now driving in a situation in which the external types of protection are maintained, but there will be no protection. The UN High Commissioner and the National Commission for Human Rights and the other bodies in the debate in the committee have also pointed out this. However, it does not sweat your ear. These practices, together with the systematic undermining of the ESTIA programme, which has been excluded from the Recovery Fund and which I will then speak about in my second language, are your policy. Mr. Ministers, it seems that what you are interested in is giving tests as worthy students of Salvini and Orban. Like your right-wing and far-right colleagues in Europe, you want to gain election profits at the expense of hunted and desperate people. But dealing with a possible new refugee crisis cannot be done through national repressive measures. It requires integrated political and diplomatic European intervention, with consistent respect for international and Union law and not nationalist corporations, communication show, re-propelled and deported. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Panagis Cappatos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin my report with a general statement relating to the functioning of the parliamentary dialogue and what we are discussing in the committees and plenary sessions of the Greek Parliament. This is about the fact that every debate, every controversy, everything that concerns us and on which we argue is not abstract from the reality. The institutional, economic, social and political environment within and outside the walls of our country affects and is influenced by the arguments exchanged and those adopted in this Chamber. The current draft law of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum is an excellent example of this. Developments in Afghanistan and the attitude of a number of states and organisations towards them trigger a domino of challenges that does not allow us to ignore. The choice to leave the United States of America in conjunction with the opportunities seen by countries such as Turkey, China and Russia in this development clearly sets the framework within which Greece and the European Union will be called upon to take drastic decisions. In the context of the migratory crisis, this is a challenge that we are familiar with. The decisive, coordinated and highly successful response to the Evros crisis in March last year was not a single incident. It was instead the bell that as a country and as a Europe we are not complacent and closely following developments in the wider region of our geopolitical interest. In this context we are today legislating on issues relating to the reform of the procedures for expulsions and returns of citizens of third countries, the attraction of investors and 'digital nomads', the residence permit and the procedure for granting international protection, as well as other provisions. The bill, which amends Law 3386 of 2005 on expulsions and Law 3907 of 2011 on refunds, expressly clarifies that the expulsion procedures, as defined in Law 3386 of 2005, are applicable to illegal enterers and deportees at the border of the country. The expulsion decision is exclusively the responsibility of the police and is immediately issued in cases where the alien has not been applied for or his request has been rejected. On the other hand, the refund for third-country nationals is ordered by the competent authorities of asylum and immigration. At the same time, the framework of the procedure for granting voluntary departure to third-country nationals whose stay in the country has been declared illegal shall be redefined. The period of time of this period shall be reduced from thirty to twenty-five days, while the circumstances in which the period of voluntary departure is not granted are provided for. This shall be established together with the regulation on an obligation to prescribe the competent police authorities to the competent authority as to whether a third-country national is a risk to public policy and security or whether there is a risk of evasion. In my reference to the specific provisions of the draft law, the scope and scope of the legislation, which extends to seven chapters and forty-four overall articles, are not exhausted. It is not possible, after all, to quote this in my available time nor will it offer anything to our debate today. On the other hand, what we deserve to point out is in Article 11 of the bill and concerns 'digital nomads'. The rapid development of technology in the era of the fourth industrial revolution and 5G and the momentum the pandemic gave to distance work create a new category of workers. Their homework may be anywhere in the world, their clients likewise, but they, the "digital nomads", choose Greece in order to work from a distance. The weather conditions, the choices that our country offers, the hospitality and the prospects of Greece are an excellent employment environment for this category. It is therefore our job to ensure this institutional and legal framework, so that our country will systematically become a place of attraction to the 'digital nomads', a sector that is constantly developing and can be an excellent opportunity for us. In practice, the original residence permit is provided for in the bill in 12 months, with the possibility of an extension so that they remain in the country and work from here. This initiative is directly linked to a recent initiative by the Ministry of Foreign Affairs on the procedures for establishing a special entry visa for "digital nomads". It is also our wish that Kefalonia and Ithaca should be the islands of attraction of "digital nomadic" as we have recently discussed with the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Sophia Zacharakis. The economy and society are moving forward, with the digital age not allowing us any delay. Ladies and gentlemen, in November 2019 I was able, as a majority rapporteur, at the time for the international protection bill, to highlight all those challenges that we had to respond to. We have then talked about fragmenting the scattered provisions, which we have also replaced with a clear and coherent legal framework. We have also referred to the unstructured Greek asylum system, which we have corrected. We have then proposed a system in line with the requirements of the Union legislator. And finally, we have eliminated the consequences of a piece of legislation by complicated procedures and inefficient management that until then were operating as brakes. And then Evros came. The dramatic developments at the beginning of last year and the effective management of the crisis and the threat that Greece has successfully repelled do not allow us to doubt. Immigration policy and the legislative framework we are voting on today is only to calculate the national, regional, European and international environment. For all this, we are voting today on the look at tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u126	And we thank Mr. Capato and the economy in time. The Minister has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u127	Mr President, I should like to put forward legislative improvements to the bill. I note that four time-consuming amendments have been tabled by the government, which of course are accepted. Two late parliamentary amendments have also been tabled, which have not had the time to be analysed sufficiently, and therefore cannot be accepted at the moment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Minister. The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Michaelides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. As MP of Chios, the homeland of the great Mikis Theodorakis, I must also address the last "hail", the ultimate greeting to the great creator, who honoured our country, honored by our country and with it and our island, Chios. Mr President, you will allow me to abuse time for a second, so that I can start by placing myself on the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Health. More specifically, I would like to point out the extremely problematic Article 3 of the amendment, which provides that administrative staff may be replaced by three-month contracts for the supply of the services concerned, without any information on the suppliers' conditions, by way of derogation from any provision on public procurement. The workshops also provide for contracts with private laboratories already cooperating with the EEAS and the EAW provides for cooperation with private ambulances for the secondary transport of patients. This is, therefore, essentially an unconditional tradition of the neural services of the public health system to private individuals, with incalculable consequences for the proper functioning of the units, the financial costs and the maintenance of the public character of the ERC hospitals. It seems that the Government is doing a rehearsal of the implementation of the PPPs in the field of health, which is in its original plan to deliver profitable parts of the public health system to all of the private interests. Furthermore, the provision and time set out in this amendment shows the impasse of the government, which apparently believed that the suspension of labour relations would comply with the unvaccinated health and that the SYRIZA, which, from the outset, said that the authoritarian option of suspension would cause functional blackouts to the health system. The amendment, of course, also contains provisions from other ministries, but only for Article 3, we are voting against it. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum is taking place in the middle of international geopolitical developments, which are sure to produce new data on our country as regards the anticipation of a new wave of refugee flows, mainly from Afghanistan. The new Taliban regime, with its well-known grim tactics towards citizens and their rights, mainly in women, will surely lead hundreds of thousands of people to leave this country to be saved. At the same time, with its regular tactics to the East of the Neighbourhood to work on the refugee in order to benefit from the West and above all from the European Union, it is easy to conclude what will follow. These provided, our country remains completely absent from developments, although - mainly and directly concerned - should be taking the lead in initiatives, particularly at European Union level. No serious initiative at the top of European leaders, a European Council convening, as Alexis Tsipras suggested, the creation by international organisations of safe channelling Afghan citizens leaving the country, etc. Instead, a telephone call from the Prime Minister with President Erdogan, which was limited to general words and general words. In the context of this sloppy and relentless effort to deal with the new refugee wave, the Ministry of Migration and Asylum tabled this draft law, characterised above all by the abbreviations of the deadlines for examining asylum, expulsion and returns. You think, Minister, that these arrangements will address the problem. Try to wipe out the fire by blowing the flames. But on the occasion, Minister, let us look at the elements of the policy you have implemented so far in the management of the refugee, immigration issue. You have spoken about safe border guarding, with which you have achieved a drastic reduction in flows, which was not the case during the SYRIZA governance period. Apart from this unacceptable national attitude, that is to say, that there was a government that did not guard the country's borders, explain to us the eruption of arrivals during the first period of your own governance. What happened then? Didn't you guard the border then? And since the border is now tightly closed, why are you building superstructures on our islands? You see smuggling and candy policy of SYRIZA's so-called open borders have been quite profitable. Refusal that the main regulator of the streams is the neighboring country itself, for its own reasons obviously. Ignore geopolitical developments in the Middle East as a key source of the refugee flows. But lies once end, Minister, and citizens understand reality. But let me also address some of the local issues concerning Chios, your constituency, the island that, together with Lesvos, has been bloody for three days in February 2020 and you are about to do the same in the coming period. Close the "VIAL", Minister, every Easter and Christmas, leaving it to function with zeros, as you claim, flows. And you are trying to lure the inhabitants on new roads bypass of Halkidiki, sometimes with the rental of property perimeter of "BIAL", i.e. the natives. And you came to blame us as the founders of "BIAL", you who were struggling to photograph you next to the then Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, on his visit to the newly founded then "BIAL". You have recently discovered that the Coordinating Committee of Citizens and Citizens, which strongly opposes your plans, is not an institutional one and you have unsuccessfully attempted to exclude and reduce it. I wonder, Minister, the flawless memory of the Pan-Saxon Commission, with its well-known intolerance and racist practices, your key partner at that time when you were in opposition, has it had an institutional role? How did you hug and support every initiative? On the specific issues raised by your draft law, I would just like to make a reference to the fact that one of its objectives is to strengthen the possibility of expulsions and returns from foreign nationals, including asylum seekers. The main problem is not only the risk of confusing these two distinct procedures, but especially the fact that the Government insists on obvious communication purposes to show them as the main means of managing refugee, migrants, when the Ministry's data itself and the principles of all European states demonstrate the complex and limited effectiveness of refunds. Finally, I would note that the increase with Article 35 of the potential beneficiary municipalities from the Solidarity Fund and reduces the amounts that could actually meet the needs of regions that are experiencing the refugee more intensively, such as the islands of the eastern Aegean, but also creates conditions for financing and sharing funds that are irrelevant to the objectives of the fund. The draft law you submitted to the House is another presumption of your deadlocked policy on the refugee, immigration issue. Your practices continue to divide local communities into a sensitive national area on our islands, namely, and cause citizens with unprecedented arrogance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr. Michaelides. The floor is now, after the Stepma has been settled, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Ljupi. Here, Mr. Lippi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on today's bill certainly comes at a special moment in time for international migration and refugee data. The recent unfavourable developments in Afghanistan are expected to create new refugee flows towards Europe with a first country of entry, as usual, Greece. Since the first moment, the Prime Minister, Mrs Mitsotakis, has made it clear to Europeans that the situation that we experienced in '15 must not be repeated and that Greece is determined to protect its borders always with respect for international law. This time Europe needs to have a better approach to the problem. We need for everyone's good to qualify as a solution to the relocation of refugees to neighbouring countries in Afghanistan with the support of naturally the European Union. The current government has made sure to change its course to the country's immigration policy, to safeguard our borders in the best possible way and to speed up the performance of asylum applications. The numbers prove what has been achieved. In the past 12 months, flows have fallen by 85%. From January to July of '21, seven thousand and fourteen people left Greece either because they were deported or relocated to other countries. Half of them are in structures compared to last year, while asylum services have reduced their outstanding cases to half. The draft law we are debating today comes to strengthen in individual respects the migration policy that has been successfully implemented over the last two years. For those arrested illegally entering the border, the expulsion procedure shall be followed, in which case the competent police authorities shall be seized, provided that they have not applied for asylum or their request has been rejected. An important chapter is that of voluntary departures for illegally resident in the country. It is a useful and important process, but at the same time it is uncertain many times. Its operating framework is improved, reducing by reducing the time limit set for voluntary departure. Importantly, in order for the third-country national to be released to leave, police authorities should have recommended that he is not dangerous to public policy and is not a suspect of fleeing. A common obstacle to the legal process is the difficult and impossible many times to find the foreigner for the performance of his decision. This is resolved by the new digital service provided for the first time either at the e-mail address that it has declared or via gov.gr. The pandemic highlighted a new form of remote worker, the so-called digital nomadic nomads. They are nationals of third countries free of charge or employees who work using technology for employers and clients abroad. Many attract the idea of staying in Greece with excellent natural beauty and climate and at the same time continuing their professional life. In today's bill there is a special provision for this category of workers. They are granted a national visa, a visa for 12 months to themselves and the members of their family. Then they can take a residence permit for another two years. So today's legislation covers the first condition for creating a favourable climate of attraction for those who are interested in moving from Greece under these conditions. The second condition we need to meet is that throughout the high-speed and reliable Internet area. That is why I asked the Minister for Digital Governance a month ago to answer the problem of the white areas faced by many municipalities in the country and also many municipalities in the Magnesia Prefecture where I am elected and where many are expected to choose to relocate. The flexibility given to third-country nationals who invest in our country is also important. The investment mobility is being introduced, so that those who have obtained a residence permit as investors are allowed to change the type of investment, which has not been the case until now. In addition, Immigration Policy interventions are being made, reducing the deadline for submitting an application for treatment against decisions issued under the Immigration Code from six months to two months in order to stop the abusive practice that is often observed. At the same time, the competent authority shall take a decision on the request for treatment within 30 days. It will not be granted asylum from the outset when the applicant is considered to be a danger to national security or has been sentenced to serious crimes. Unaccompanied minors who do not receive asylum and cannot return to their country receive medical treatment as required. It is common that illegally incoming foreigners claim to be minors to benefit from favorable treatment. That is why the identity card is only taken into account when the full date of birth is entered in it. The duration of the asylum application card shall be increased from six to twelve months in order to reduce bureaucracy from renewables every six months. Any application for international protection other than the first shall be subject to a paradox of EUR 100 in order to deal with the phenomena of misuse and unfounded successive applications that operate paradoxically. Finally, one of the changes that runs counter to opposition is the regulation that introduces the preconditions for how voluntary organisations operate in areas within the competence of the port and the Coast Guard. The aim is for rescuers by sea to do their job by rules and under security for all. On immigration issues we are very ideologically abstaining from Civic Response. This was reflected in the policy followed by the previous government in 2015-2019, which, in my opinion, has been a failure. It is difficult to manage such a sensitive issue of human life. For the current government, it is a one-way road to fully implement the lawfulness, the principles of international law, but also to defend the Greek borders. Today's bill serves all the above objectives successfully with respect always to the principles of international law and the principles of European Union. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too, for the time economy. Before giving the floor to the State Secretary of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum Mrs Sophia Vultesis, I would like to make a statement. SYRIZA's colleagues have tabled a request for a roll-call vote on Amendment No 1054 and number 9 on the basis of the image we have before us that it will take place between 18.30 and 19.00 rather than. I am saying this so that some Members can be informed by now. We will also inform the parliamentary groups in order to inform their Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u133	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the recent events in Afghanistan and the risk of a new round of refugee and migrant labour has caused great concern in Europe and, of course, in Greece, where we have already experienced the attempt to transform the country into a field of exercise of this illegal practice. I note, however, that various categories and arguments are being launched on the part of the opposition for the determination with which the government headed by the Prime Minister has announced in all respects that our country intends to face up to the new danger. But the truth is one. The results of the open borders policy and the general invitations were lived in 2015 and 2016 and we continue to suffer their consequences. Of course migration flows are the result of geostrategic developments. Of course, addressing an upcoming migration crisis depends on political will. Here I would like to make two comments on the speeches of previous colleagues. The colleague of the Communist Party, Mr Konnakas, belongs to those who believe that everyone in the country should enter. I am sorry, but this cannot be done and it was not in the Soviet Union as far as we all remember. The borders were closed and we know what was happening to anyone who violated the Soviet Union's borders. You'll say it was a Cold War. And now Cold War is a big game played in the area and look who's doing high school right now after the Americans left in the area. Secondly, Mr Psychoyos tabled Mrs Miyatovic's letter. I think we have made this clear, Mr Colleague, by the committee. Greece is a country with a Parliament based on the declared and non-governmental organisations neither govern nor legislate. So I do not think one can interfere in such internal arrangements that go hand in hand with international law and the Geneva Convention. There's nowhere in the contract that anyone who wants to take a boat and do whatever they want. There are principles, there is the port and it is compulsory for there to be cooperation. We have repeated this in all tones: Greece cannot withstand a new wave of unattractive and unattractive flows. We have done our humanitarian duty in full, and that is why I say, Mr Colleague, that the Council of Europe cannot say that we have not done so. And to tell you that when representatives of our Ministry, fellow Members from the Council of Europe, visited them, I raised them with the question that, in order for any member of the Council of Europe to be able to obtain five unaccompanied children, we are negotiating five months and that is not humanism. So from a distance, we don't move the finger. I say this for the Council of Europe. And then, indeed, the MPs said: “You are right. We're impressed. So much time to take the five children?" So these are clear issues. The country guards its borders, cannot be a clear vine and thus preserves its national security. Immigration policy alone cannot be achieved. Immigration policy also has deportations. And until the European Union finally decides to establish a common asylum system and a common deportation system, we must take our measures. That's what this is about. Immigration policy also includes the measure of detention. In what country is the violation of borders not an illegal act? Laws exist to be implemented and laws cannot be in themselves general invitations. They must send dissuasive messages, which is why we are returning to some of the provisions of the 2005 Act, which has always been the most excellent and the most complete one, because humanity is both works and acts, not words. On Constantine Karamanlis the Geneva Convention, as I told you, in 1959 and on the New Democracy Government in 2007, the National Commission for the Social Integration of Migrants was set up, on the co-government of New Democracy - PASOK in 2014, the Code of Migration and Social Integration was passed. So all matters are balanced. There can't be one side or the other. The war in Syria began in 2011. His most dramatic events, deportations, bombing, decapitations occurred in 2013 and 2014. In 2015 there was - I can tell you - recession after the targeted allied bombings. What is it that caused all this in 2015? The general invitation, which was made at the time, and this is reflected in all of your communications, from all the political decisions of the SYRIZA, from the letter sent by Mr Tsipras to Mr Robais that told him that no power of FRONTEX and no fence can prevent the phenomenon, that Ammondale was considered Dachau and that you were asking for declarations on European elections without Schengen and FRONTEX. So it's a clear message that goes in all directions. I am also listening, ladies and gentlemen, to the question of integration in my portfolio. Of course, it's a little bit in the context of the murder of characters you're accustomed to. I have heard Mr Muzala say to the committee yesterday that we are late. Today we heard Mr Psychoyoyo say that we have unleashed what you have done. Right? So let me remind you that the only existential program created was the "HELIOS" that is being implemented...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u135	We set that up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u136	When? Just before the election. But it's all been four years to vote for. When? This Decision shall enter into force on the twentieth day Four years of crisis, you hadn't done accession. You made the deal in 2019. Who implemented the program from August onwards? The New Democracy. Four years why didn't you do it? I would remind you that four years that you had done nothing but this, you had exhausted all European funds since 2018 without any entry and despite the fact that at the time there was an emergency, the money was falling with the bag. All the programmes you mentioned were fragmented by various non-governmental organisations which were then financed directly by the European Union. So half the money directly to NGOs from the European Union, half the money directly from the European Union and I am now from January without any money. These - I beg your pardon very much - must be taken into account when you say something, when the fund is empty from '18 and when you know very well that the previous financial period is over and the next '21-'27 will bring the first money to the first quarter of '22'. So you cannot say something about accession. The European Union claims that there is no crisis. The crisis came with Afghanistan, but there's a problem in predicting what might happen, so we don't have to have more money, and we don't have to rush for disbursements. And right now that we're talking about, we've prepared projects that once in Greece didn't even exist as an idea. We'll do it because we have to do it. Why should not - many of you have mentioned - burdened the state budget and the Greek taxpayer through the various benefits that go to recognised refugees? Because they too must stand on their feet with dignity for as long as they are hosted in our country and we provide them with international protection and until the extraordinary conditions end in their country. And why the accession process also helps the process of relocation, which is facilitated precisely because there are people who speak languages, know the European way of life, have become familiar with democratic principles, have become familiar with the issues of gender equality, the prevention of violence, domestic violence, human trafficking. All this to be implemented needs money. So, at the moment, we are trying to use some money until the European Union's funds come, which will actually be a year and a year from the start of the programme. I heard Mr. Constantinople. He's right. Many can be used in many sectors of the economy. This means, however, that they must be trained. He referred to both the agricultural sector and the tourism sector. All this is ready, but it cannot now be under these conditions that there is a monopoly on humanism where no one wants to do that. You saw the subject of unaccompanied minors. A personal decision of the Prime Minister, with great success. Because the secretariat had identified and received about five and a half thousand unaccompanied minors. They have already been reduced to less than three thousand thanks to the successful relocations with all this trouble, which I mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u137	The number you sent?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u138	The number is five thousand three hundred one, that's what we received. Unless you mean Mr. Kammenos's number saying you lost ten thousand children. If that's what you mean, that could happen. What can I tell you? You ruled. We got the kids, though. There's no more security guard in the department, with the Ministry's law. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need a few minutes. Besides, I don't think I'll have to talk again. We have received over three hundred children living in police stations and the police are looking after them. So that's not the case. Now a device is coming to facilitate medical care. There is going to be a programme that you had not imagined, because these unaccompanied children, ladies and gentlemen, when they are eighteen years old where they are fine, they are all out there without knowing anything. We are preparing a programme that will start six months before their adulthood and will reach twenty-one - we will see what we will call it, "ELIOS TZUNIOR" let's say it - which will help these children to have a professional rehabilitation or to be able to work, to be able to study. There may be some kids who want to study. We already have some kids who have, for example, a great musical talent. I have already signed a three-year programme to be implemented by UNICEF for informal education and transition to formal education, namely a smooth transition to public school. Why can't you imagine a 12-year-old child getting out of the boat and getting into public school? There needs to be a support. There are monuments of cooperation with the Kapodistrian University, with the Panteion. I didn't find any of this. Excuse me. That's where the ministry was, we got it. We didn't find any of this, none of this happened when the money came out. So we cannot be blamed for trying to do things right now and we have to do it. It bothers me very much that there is a tendency for gluttony. And SYRIZA: "Mrs. Vultesis, who took over accession." I am sorry, but what Mrs Vulture does about accession - and I do not do it to outline it, but why I mentioned it to you - had never happened before. Especially for the unaccompanied ones, which I did not start, it was a Prime Minister's decision and Mrs Ilohidakis applied it. These are a model for Europe and the whole world. What does Mr. Burns want to say, Mr. Burns, who I see will then speak with his irony, say? That we're not humanists enough, and he's his friends too? Really? And how can we be humanists, fall the money from the "airplane" and not be any of the things I've mentioned to you now? There is no monopoly on humanity. When chaos prevails, there is no room for humanitarian action. You can't help those who really need it. Those who really need chaos are wrong and must be clear to all of us now. In the country, those who have to stay can stay. For others, the laws will be applied, such as the one we are calling on to vote on in Parliament today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u140	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u141	Here you go, Mrs. Pulu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u142	Madam Secretary, with all due respect, I would like to say that you are probably ignoring it, but there is an accession programme, the 'LIOS', which is now also being implemented throughout Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u143	That's what he told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u144	I do not know, of course, if you have understood this, but, in my view, you have completely devalued it. I would also like to tell you that even some positive provisions you have today, such as Article 37 for PAYPA, were your own ignorance. When you legislated, we had drawn your attention to the fact that it is not possible to create such a problem and, in the midst of a pandemic, to many refugees. These uncertainties are correcting today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u145	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u146	Here, Mrs. Vuldesis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u147	My colleague, HLIOS, said you waited four years to do so just before the elections in April 19 19. Only then. Why didn't you do it four or three years ago? We have implemented it. And the opinion on what HLIOS is doing and whether we have devalued it to ask the International Organisation for Migration and its head. You should know that she has a very different opinion from you about how she works with the Ministry, like all international organisations, and the High Commissioner and UNICEF. And so many memoranda of international organizations Greece had never seen. As for the other thing you're talking about, you're kind of confusing things. We're talking about unaccompanied people. Everything else has PAYPA, they can be vaccinated, they have medical care. And it is another thing about AMKA, a national number, which concerns Greek citizens and another thing about a number that refugees and immigrants use to be able to have medical treatment. Excuse me, you've been a little confused. It has nothing to do with what you have said today. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Boukoros, then the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Manolakou and then Mr. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two things are clear. There is no doubt and it is normal for a problem of global dimensions to have ideological differences and approaches. More normal than that can't be. We want to clarify two things in each wing and, above all, in the opposition parties in the context of the debate that has taken place today. The country has borders and terrestrial and sea and is kept at night with the sacrifices and labors of women and men of the Armed Forces and of the country's Security Bodies. And because difficult care is indeed in the marine space, with the heroic efforts of women and men in the Port Authority of the country. The second thing we want to make clear is that issues of the utmost importance, such as immigration, are not the responsibility of non-governmental organisations, as SYRIZA probably believes. It is the responsibility of government agencies and indeed the narrow core of the state. This is unnecessarily negotiable for us. That is why we are legislating in the context of today's legislation with a strict but fair one. What the strict one means. It means that no one can enter this country illegally. It will enter by rules and obey the rules in force in that country. What's that fair? It means that in this country anyone entitled to come and receives asylum will come. I think they are extremely simple concepts, which is why they are true. They can't blur. These concepts cannot be slandered. They are specific the coordinates that the government is conducting, and they certainly have nothing to do with the policy implemented by the previous government. You will now allow me to say that you are giving the impression that you are still living in a delusion, in a field without visibility, enthusiastic, because you are making a work scenario based on the following argument: Humanistics, well-being, well-being, let us make it easier for all these devastated, unhappy people to come to Greece and then go to their final destination, which is certainly not Greece, it is Germany, it is the Netherlands, it is Belgium, it is Great Britain. But this is your reasoning. And he's a fox because he's been proven by things. The history of recent years shows that we have been in a Europe - and that is true and we must point out, Minister - where everyone shows that they do not want the problem at their door, so that we have the caging of these thousands of people in Greece. If we were to talk about a Europe that can be consulted on this issue - for others, not Europe, a supranational organisation of twenty-seven states which is difficult to decide, which is difficult to agree - then perhaps your primary argument could have a basis and could have a debate on it. Do you see such an agreement? Can we ignore data and current policies and implement policies? But the policy must be based on data and current data. Should we fight to change these, to change them, and to change them more about other issues? Let's do it. But in the meantime, what's going on? They accumulate in Greece, as a storeroom for human souls, as happened in previous years. And if you want to throw some mud into the fan by strengthening this policy, this work hypothesis, this script of work with strong humanism doses. Are you humanists and we're inhumane? How do you claim this from the Step of the House? Is Moria and the Deep of Samos a humanity? Is it humanity what we saw in previous years? Why is he more humanist than that who makes a nod to the economic migrant and tells him to live in Moria, and is he not a humanist the man who tells him better in the poor conditions of your village than in Moria? Who's more humanist, who's telling the truth, or who's cheating the economic refugee? Because, ladies and gentlemen, there are certainly wars and civil conflicts ravaged, but we all know, the evidence has proved it in previous years, that the vast majority of these people are economic immigrants seeking better luck. They have the right to do that, to seek a better luck. We tell them that the right path is not through Greece and this has proved historically not the right way. It's not the right way or the right way. To say that they will come to Greece, in the squares, in Omonia, in the center of Athens, they will be stacked under terrible conditions and then they will disappear, while you are the same ones who point out the danger of returning back to Greece, these people are a huge contradiction, they are the fenac we were talking about. Now I do not know what politically your obsession gives you to such ideological positions. I really don't think he adds anything to you. I think it has been shown to be an incomplete immigration policy that has been followed in recent years in Greece. There are no open borders anywhere in the world. There are laws everywhere. How do you ask Greece to have all this so if you want a more broad interpretation? Does the country have such opportunities to accommodate so many people under human conditions? Are we ever going to place on these real questions? A 10 million-dollar country how many irregular immigrants can withstand and even provide human living conditions and a better future than the future they face in the countries they come from? These are the real questions. The others are political straddles to create impressions of progression and humanism and the problem of growing constantly. Is the Greek people, in other words, unholy and inhuman who, at large, said that this issue was not managed properly in previous years? Because it is not the New Democracy that brings this bill to a framework for immigration policy, it is also the Greek people and all the polls of previous years show that it considers immigration policy, as has been the case, a serious problem, a major problem for Greek society. So in the real questions of this burning issue, will you once be placed on the table? The policy implemented by Mr Metarakis and Mrs Voutis with the orders of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has some measurable results. I have a different view from those who say the coronary has reduced the flow. The guarding of our borders in the hybrid attack of Evros is the one that limited the flows, because it sent a strong message that the country is not a clear vine. We all say, and we all agree that Erdogan is opening up the refugee line. And you're not telling me, did the coroner stop Erdogan in the last year and a half from blinking the canoe? I think he received the answers he had to give both in the south-eastern Mediterranean and in Evros and in the Aegean Sea, and this made him think twice about such projects. Now, of course, someone can say we do not know what will happen in the future and what the pressure will be. Of course, we do not know that. There may be multiple flows in the future and pressures may rise to heights. So, what do you suggest that we stay with our hands crossed? Not to clarify the context, who is entitled and who is not entitled? Do we not make it clear that there are closed centres, that there are refunds, that there are deportations within a framework of immigration policy, that there are also reservations? Shouldn't we get this straight?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u150	Is this the debate today, Mr. Colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u151	There is this debate today too. Of course, it is also this debate today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u152	From 10:00 in the morning, is that what we're talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u153	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u154	You're in the wrong room.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u155	It is not that you are in the wrong Chamber, ladies and gentlemen. It's that you're clinging to ideas and you think what you're thinking is reality. But it's not the reality. Move away from reality, unfortunately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u156	We're not having a general conversation. We're talking about the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u157	But it is the legislation, my dear fellow Member, that puts this context in a broader context such as immigration policy. So, without affecting the problem, we'll explain the bill? Without addressing the issue and all its aspects, will we explain why these specific provisions of the bill are? Unprecedented things! I would therefore say, ladies and gentlemen, that yes, and the lack of agreement in the European framework are deeply concerned. Europe is always like this. He's late to decide, he's late to consult. I am, however, even more concerned about the fact that a debate has taken place from the forefront of the global debate, which has taken place a long time ago, on balanced global development that would improve the living conditions of these people on the continents and on the countries from which they come. This would be a policy, indeed, which could reduce flows in conjunction with the fight against the causes of the upcoming climate change, which can also fuel the refugee flows. But you see, in the face of the interests and views of states and multinational organisations, these debates have indeed retreat. It may also be the responsibility of the Greek Parliament to supply such debates, to initiate such discussions, so that problems that concern humanity are becoming more and more acute, such as immigration, at their source, to deal with them as much as possible. Otherwise, Minister, and Minister, I would like to congratulate you on the results of your Ministry to date, because the reduction in the flow of around 90% is unprecedented according to the data of the last decade. Of course we are voting in favour of today's bill - and we also call on all colleagues to vote for it - which, if you wish, puts a strict but fair framework on a crucial issue for our country as it is for immigration policy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u158	We are also grateful to Mr Bukkoro and to him for the consistency in time. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mrs Diamando, will now be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. The contradictions, dead ends, accumulated problems, exploitation, inhumanity and much more have no end. They highlight the rot of the capitalist system, they also characterize and appear in your policies. Yesterday, you voted for another anti-grassroots bill that robs the labors of millions of workers, turning insurance for young workers into individual business, but ensuring profits in private groups. However, young people, especially young people, have learned from the government that protection of work means 10 hours, intensification and unpaid hours of work, flexible working relationships, low wages and thousands of unemployed. You are grabbing rights and conquests of last century to have capitalists a cheap workforce without rights. Same in public health. Since the government with its political and repatriation has undermined mass vaccination, it is now adding other obstacles to the protection of the health of the people. The drop of thousands of health workers outside the health system by applying for compulsory health care, also burdening the situation in the already subordinated public system with the risk of suspending the operation of clinical, specialist medical services and other services. And you are now coming to do this with an amendment, where most of the measures are not exceptional because of pandemic conditions, but because of the implementation of the timeless anti-grassroots policy in the field of health. You have now found the opportunity to expand the private business sector of the public hospital, invoking weakness due to the availability of the staff. All this reflects the unhealthy policy of cutting down on the public health system, the reduction of labour costs through the violent reduction of staff, the strengthening of subsidiary staff and the reduction of permanent staff. Finally, you build an immunity wall on the profitability of business groups. That's what you're doing. And, of course, we will vote against the amendment from the Ministry of Health. So, can you, with such a policy, be interested in and respecting human rights for refugees and immigrants? But it would be a contradiction. Besides, the Minister was clean, he said. "So, with these measures, we will achieve the number of re-propulsions we want." Numbers you see and not rights. That's what you're busting up for. Does the exacerbation of immigration and refugee is not rooted in the imperialist wars that are taking place and the urban Greek governments through NATO and the European Union? With Afghanistan today and the withdrawal of the US troops, is this not linked to the American priorities shifting towards the Pacific Ocean, to counter and to intense competition with China for the leadership in the capitalist system? But it's clear they're reordering their military forces. And they are hypocrisy of what the Biden government says, that it is leaving military because of the completion of its counter-terrorism project. This is what it calls the imperialist intervention of the United States at the beginning of 2001. However, the objective was not the so-called war with terrorism, but the control of the strategic position of Afghanistan, as it is in the triangle of its major competitors: China, Russia, India. And it is a critical area in the development of new energy routes. It was also a great and interesting issue and it was Afghanistan's huge mineral wealth. The Taliban's recent prevalence, which took place at a fairly fast pace, was associated with the departure of the US and NATO Armed Forces after the Doha Agreement in 2020, which ended with the US and Taliban without the presence of representatives of the then Afghan government. So they have the facts, and let you act as some ignorant and surprised. Of course, the JRC had denounced the imperialist US and NATO intervention in Afghanistan since the first time, in 2001. And all these twenty years we denounced the involvement of the Greek Governments, with New Democracy, with PASOK, with SYRIZA, in the imperialist intervention and demanded return of the Greek Armed Forces from Afghanistan, as well as any other imperialist mission outside the border. You've all been devastated by SYRIZA. And now, after the dramatic events, we consider hypocrisy to be more than enough in various civil servants and crocodile tears for the fate of the people and especially of the women of Afghanistan. However, also the various kinds of assistance being considered by the European Union and others to Afghanistan - humanitarian, development and so on - is, in fact, a lever of exacerbation of multi-faceted bazaars and competition at the expense of the Afghan people. There is also hypocrisy for the anticipated increase in the refugee. And developments themselves prove what you all want to hide, how refugees are ultimately the victims of wars and interventions and, at the same time, the rights of protection and dignity of their lives are being removed by laws, directives and regulations. That's what you're doing. And with this bill you are implementing the whole reactionary framework of the European Union. It is clear that the government also contributes and seeks the full marginalisation and impoverishment of refugees and migrants without having taken any action to integrate and integrate them into the social fabric. It is the policy that captures asylum seekers, refugees and immigrants in Greece by the Dublin regulation, the European Union and Turkey agreement, the work of refugees, and of course they have turned Greece into a prison in the European Union. Moreover, the application of the whole legislative framework and the decisions of the European Union on asylum and refugees, that is, a framework which violates the rights of asylum seekers and the Geneva Convention, the Greek governments have incorporated it into Greek law. The result is that an entire reactionary framework has been established. So you are not going to resolve these issues, but you are trying to tighten up deportations by violating the Geneva Convention. How? Firstly, by abolishing the proof of non-removal for humanitarian reasons, thereby reducing protection and violating international conditions. Secondly, you are abbreviating time limits. This means that the extremely short deadlines raise doubts as to the quality of the procedures themselves and their effectiveness. Thirdly, there is confusion between the return and expulsion regime, legalising practices that violate the Geneva Convention. Fourthly, with the new paradoxes and measures in favour of capital and cosmopolitanism, it seems the classic nature of your bill. For those who have Golden Visa and the money you call digital nomadic, you create facilities looking even for one-stop services with an obligation for the state to respond within ten days. On the contrary, for the downtrodden, you choose the silent discharges, the subordinated services with thousands of blanks and, of course, high paradoxes, as opposed to the digital nomads you are reducing and putting much lower paradoxes. Fifthly, you are stepping up repression by engaging an uncontrolled number of people, who are showing the difficulties of returns, and the government's choice to generalise detention in the cases of people who are rejecting their demands. You finally create permanent soul prisons on the islands. You also criminalize the rescue of people at risk by imposing and demanding that there be a risk at sea that the port authority be approved, namely, a priority for bureaucracy of the port authority paper and not the rescue of human life. Unacceptable and embarrassing! Of course there are other things that our rapporteur, Maria Konnakas, has analysed in her report. So what does this reactionary bill look like? That the struggle against the imperialist war, the interventions and the unblocking of our country is a one-way road, as it is a one-way road to claim human, decent life for everyone based on the wealth that exists around us and the potential of our time. Therefore, in response to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, ideological differences and approaches exist and are given data. That is why we do not forget and no one should forget from the old and find out to the younger that there were countries where socialism was built and which were open and welcoming to refugees and the uprooted and closed for dictators, kings and tycoons of wealth. These countries also hosted thousands of Greek hunted after the Civil War, young children who had lost their parents. All political refugees have given work with rights and a human life. All their children were educated at the expense of the state, learned from the Hungarian, Polish, Czech then Soviet school to write and speak the Greek language, their mother tongue, Greek customs and education at the best universities. This is the qualitative superiority and humanity of the socialist system. Now in these countries with the capitalist reconversion, fences and wires are lifting up. That is why the words of comfort, sympathy or excitement are hypocritical to the tragedy of the refugees who support civil power, capitalism and the associations of capitalists such as the European Union and NATO. Of course, the refugee issue is not a simple matter, it is not a phenomenon of the days it passes. It is a phenomenon of capitalism that has been deceived, surrounded by the crises that are taking place again and again in wars, refugee and poverty. Competitiveness between capitalist states is steadfast and to endure wildly. Millions leave to avoid death and hunger. That is why a solution and hope is the overthrow of capitalist barbarism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. And the floor is now, after the Stepma has been settled, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Publicskas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u161	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, we are promoting the enormous Mickey Theodorakis with respect and at a place of attention. Racism around the world gratifyingly salutes him both for his democratic stature and for the unity he has sought and taught a lifetime. And now on the bill. The migration issue is an international and lasting problem that can evolve in the future into a terrible historical threat, because only Pakistan from 220 million today will reach 2050 million to 400 million, and Bangladesh from 170 million to 300 million. The two states in relation to the others are the 'nuclear bomb' population. But this is rekindled according to international events and developments in flammable areas such as Syria and now in Afghanistan. But it is also a burden on attempting countries such as Turkey to work on the issue of exploiting people in need. In March 2020, Turkey, with its immigration army, caused a major crisis in Castane Evros with many targets. The current government has, from the outset, managed its effective management at the heart of its priorities. He managed to regain control of the immigration and hence the international credibility of our country. The results of which are visible with the full measures of physical, technical, electronic and electrical protection in relation to the illumination of our borders and their aerial deposition. In fact, Mr Minister, the term 'fence' is unfortunately unfair to my country and offends its noble inhabitants. The internationally accepted term is a deterrent technical barrier, as we started it in design and organisation in 2007. Mr. Secretary and Mrs. Undersecretary, you can as an act of good will to the Hebrews change it. However, this legislative initiative is another attempt to strengthen our arsenal institutionally in introductory terms. Amendments and improvements to procedures for expulsions, returns and residence permits are laid down. It is pointed out that no one is prevented from exercising rights. The abuse of rights by third-country nationals is, however, prevented. It is clear that the expulsion procedures, rather than the return procedures, are applied to those arrested at the border, not official points and illegally entering the country. The aim is a clear separation of the administrative expulsion procedure, which is now only made by the police by the return process, which is ordered by the competent asylum and immigration authorities. At the same time, the framework of the procedure for granting voluntary departure to third-country nationals whose residence in the country has been declared illegal is being reformed. At the same time, a provision of the European directive on non-asylum is incorporated where the applicant is considered to constitute a risk to national security because of its final conviction for specific offences or substantial justification and documentation of the competent authorities. This draft law introduces and provides for a new form of work, which is observed worldwide and relates to remote workers, as well as provision for students, students, researchers and investors, making Greece a destination for investment, study and work and not only. The conditions for the voluntary organisations to be active in cases of Greek coastguard jurisdiction are also laid down. Minister, I have experience in foreign affairs, and that is why I highlight the need to extend the successful agreement of the European Union on Afghanistan with regard to the European temporary travel document 'Laissez-passer' and other countries of high interest with simultaneous agreements for skilled workers and craftsmen, such as Greece's with Egypt, as regards the use of fishermen in our seagoing vessels, because it is a useful tool in terms of the process of rapid and safe return of economic migrants to the countries of origin. An additional tool is and can be the 'Titre de voyage', the so-called'refugee travel document'. I have also tabled a documented proposal to the Vice-President of the European Commission Margaret Schedule on the protection and progress of the settlements of the external perimeter of the Member States of the European Union, which are close to the border of third countries and within a radius of fifty kilometres to the European interior, in order to strengthen the human presence in a highly sensitive area of Europe, such as the extreme Evros. The forces to prevent and manage migratory flows are the pillars of protecting our borders, but the main means of deterrent are the lights on our villages near the border. The settlements are shrinking populations, so the field is open to illegality, policing and national threats, and possibly even to the implementation of dark plans, and I would stress that, ladies and gentlemen. The open borders policy of the outgoing government has made the country a clear vine, which has inherited us into a difficult management problem. This period, however, now belongs to the past and will not come back, because obsessive policies have been paid, since our partners have reacted and brought the borders of Austro-Hungarian to our northern borders. Because we signed the Schengen Treaty, but unfortunately we dismantled it and indeed a Schengen Treaty, which is the really useful tool in terms of the free movement of persons, things and capital. The current government is not reassured and is not restrained. He changed the data at the level of deterrence, border protection and strengthening of the Armed Forces and Security Bodies in a single doctrine, as regards the institutional framework for international protection. That is why I am voting in favour of the current draft law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr. Prussakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u163	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u164	Here, Minister, you have the floor. What do you mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u165	Mr President, I would just like to table a legislative improvement in Amendment No 1054 and a special 9 of the Ministry of Health, which includes in this amendment necessary recruitments for the OKANA, for the Centre and for the National Centre for Psychological Health and Research. All in all, the Minister for Health will support the amendment in today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u166	The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs Theanoo Fotio. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill intentionally closes eyes in the present and future of Europe and Greece, because refugees and migration flows will be the regularity of Europe's future in the years to come. Wars, climate crisis, hunger and poverty will lead the desperate, the broken-up of this land to the areas of promise, as the countries of Europe imagine. These days we are living the tragedy in Afghanistan in which Europe has contributed. They are the aspects of the normality of the future that is being present and Europe is dragging, taking a step forward and two back, because they are binding on the neoliberal and conservative governments that are shaking to lose their extreme right-wing votes from the fascist and extreme right-wing parties that are being imprisoned. This is also the case in our own government. However, Greece is one of the main gates of Europe and the policy you are following is a number of deadlocks. Today's bill is passed, while the Taliban regime is being established in Afghanistan, and the refugee's concept regains its clearest substance. The crocodile tears about what it expects women in Afghanistan are abundant when you are not suspending or suspending returns to Afghanistan, as the other countries of Europe have done and you insist that you consider Turkey safe third country. The result is that Afghan asylum seekers are considered to be a Priori unacceptable and obviously entangle them, since there is no solution for them either for the future or for the future. You are doing the same for minor refugees, in other words for minors who are unaccompanied. I regard Article 21 as a disgrace that continues the misery of the Chrysochide Law. You expelled him, but you're following him by foot, because the Chrysochide Law for the first time separated minors from over fifteen and under fifteen, unaccompanied. Unaccompanied minors are up to eighteen years old, and today you are asking these minor refugees to bring their birth certificate to deport them. With the Chrysochoids law, you're going to deport them. We warn you that if you do, we will appeal to international and European courts and the country will go unfaithful with this story. As for the numbers and what we delivered, Mrs Vultesis, we delivered three thousand eighty-eighty-eighty-sixty-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-sixth-seventh-six in 2019, on June 30. See the evidence of EKKA. Fortunately, we have drawn up this plan. Secondly, in December 2019 with your amazing policies you reached the minors five thousand six hundred fifty-five. In the summer of 2020 you reached four thousand eight hundred thirty-four. Read the numbers. Now you just told us you got three and a half thousand. Good for you, the number we handed you over! And that Prime Minister who went into the pandemic and swinged the handkerchief to eleven refugees who were going to Luxembourg! Aren't you telling us, Mrs. Vulture, how many unaccompanied refugees have you sent abroad?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u168	Thousands!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u169	So all this was a mascara, on purpose! And you broke up the protection of the child. The refugee had to be Mrs. Michailidou. You went halfway to the Ministry of Migration Policy and went by saying. Sports! Today your Government, based on the doctrine of prevention, is once again proposing returns, expulsions and detention for everyone as panacea and basic way of managing a complex problem. Myth of government, since you know that the returns made, even voluntary, are minimal! You do not hesitate to introduce saliva-inspiring regulations, to a certain extent criminalising the conduct of rescue operations at sea - that is what the Commissioner for Human Rights of the Council of Europe is asking you to review today - along with the communication show in Evros, when there are closed structures at the border - thousands of people in prison. So you try to change the agenda, to save the government from the displeasure of the Greek people, unpleasant about the state of the economy, about the management of pandemic, fires, about the collapse of labour rights, about the collapse of public free education. Your policy is a dead end, it is an ostrich policy, a policy that poisons Greek society. It is written with the xenophobic powers of Europe, with those for electoral purposes silence. Only the country's geostrategic position does not allow this attitude. Those countries can solve their demographic problem with the refugees, as Merkel's Germany has done, which is currently going down because of the forthcoming elections. But you, yesterday on the pretext of demographics, for which for two years you have done nothing, voted to privatise supplementary insurance by putting the safety of young people, the budgetary debt of the country and the future of the retired, working and non-taxable persons who will 'pay the Marble' for the EUR 70 billion transition. It is the New Democracy that signed the Greek Parliament's 2018 Municipal Municipalities Conclusion, which considers refugees as a parameter for resolving the country's demographic problem. You signed this and it's in the House, but your signature is used to you meaning it and honor it in two ways, either when it serves the interests of an economic oligarchy or when you have to fish for votes from the blurred waters of the far right. Unfortunately, today's bill we are voting against is the result of this short-sighted policy. Mr President, as we have denounced, pandemic is an opportunity to privatise the ESS which you have left unarmed. Mr. Floris is here to do the dirty work. He didn't lose a 24-hour in the ER. He has taken an amendment and puts individuals into the National Health System, along with the suspension subsidisation procedure. On the road, of course, Mrs Michailidou opened it with the Centre for Social Welfare in Attica, which she supervised and entrusted directly - by delegation - to a clean-up company - decentralisation - security and others to provide nurses for one of his annexes for disabled persons in order to fill the gaps in staff who have been suspended. As you can see, from the welfare and especially from the care of disabled people the privatisation of the protection structures and the ESS begins. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u170	We continue with the Deputy of the New Democracy Mr. Konstantinos Blouchos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u171	Did we find the pole or are we still looking for him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u172	For the first time, there is such anguish that a Minister will come!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u173	Here you go, Mr. Blush, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Amid excellent comments, ladies and gentlemen, I came to Step on the grounds of tabling the amendment in this bill by the Ministry of Health alone. I consider it my duty before Parliament to comment in the capacity of a fighter of health, a surgeon of the ESS, on what is at stake in public life and a critical view of the attitude of the Officerial Response. The Government is being denounced by the Qualified Opposition for moves of allegedly political authoritarianism, social analgesia, undermining the resistance of the National Health System, that it seeks supposedly rival victims to health personnel and that it fails in the operation "PRODUCT". You say, in fact, that pandemic will not be judged by the irreversible staff of the National Health System. It also complements, in fact, SYRIZA's dear colleague that it is the Government's insistence that vaccination should be applied to health professionals. The contradiction between the Qualified Antipolitics became clear the other day with another selective colleague, the skepticist on vaccination, who argued: "We are in favour of universal and voluntary vaccination, but we cannot accept the requirement." Now, what kind of doctors are represented under these words? What medicine is sacrificed to these purposes? I guess some people choose to live in parallel realities. It's a matter of insanity, I think. You say 'yes' to universal and voluntary vaccination which is, in fact, one thing and one question which is impracticable in substance because it cannot be persuasive or adapted to the whole country or all of the workers in the health areas. So what do we do when a large proportion refuses not only its own vaccination but also the need for health vaccination? Should we punish them? Clearly not. Should we leave them like that? And how are we going to manage this human potential in the clinical practice that is the main thing? How can this staff be involved? Probably can't. They will be created outside the risks of illness, many management problems. And what's the target? But, of course, as much as possible to remain invasive. That's the target. Now we're going to staff management. Of course, here, the permanent incubation is known and it is the permanent recruitment. I'm leaving this aside. So how does a nursing service manage light service staff - it is a very large proportion, is well known and the former Minister for Health who is here - and the staff here are being added and the non-existent staff, the subsidiary, from the subsidiary's already exhausted lists and a sufficient number of other losses, for example sick leave? How does one solve such an equation in clinical practice? You are probably and are lucky that you do not have the responsibility of managing such a crisis and that is how you endure your luxury in barren criticism. You are looking to increase problems and not to resolve them. That shows a lot of irresponsibility. Those involved in the health field refuse to be vaccinated make a conscious exception of themselves from the scientific community and its checks. Unfortunately, the Acoustic Opposition is a hypocritically supporter of universal vaccination, but it is subject to the zealism of the negative, giving a barren retreat fight in favour of division. By the last minute, before the deadline for compulsory vaccination of health was expired, he was calling for a serious dialogue to convince the negative, rather than bilingualism and manifesting anaphylaxis in a clear and brave position. This is why it expresses a Civic Opposition which does not account for the level of responsibility of rather. It is a tragic and dangerous contradiction to denounce in the logic of the obligation to vaccinate, as is the case with all vaccines in various professional categories, by blocking the eye to those who are a quasi-election client, which wants political coverage and within the completely criminal acceptance of conspiracy falsehoods or other inaccurate or mere irrationalism. How and why did the skeptics and uninvasive healthians not become convinced of the opposite? What powers have they reacted to exploit the agony and reluctance, reluctance and questioning of our fellow humans, which the scientific community and the state have persistently built, both with the same or greater perseverance, undermined and shattered? And this is because the powers and collectives, even the bodies, did not insist on the message being hid, but rather on its blackout. And in the face of this painful reality, pandemic, with so many consequences, we are projected to be hollow and deaf people who, with our political hatred and poisoned by the toxic charm of controversy, are overcoming the forced bindings and prerequisites of a leading crisis. And how distant it seems now, when the hospitals were kneeling in the second pandemic wave, especially in the provincial hospitals of northern Greece, which, in fact, could not avoid a state of illness of a large number of health care, could then overthrow the weaknesses of internal management and fight because of our materially measured powers. And then you blamed the vicious circle of illness, if you remember, and let's all know it's a phenomenon that happens to all the hospitals in the world. But then this criticism has contributed. And now you're forgetting this horrendous criticism of yours. And what do you want? Do you want the same phenomenon to be repeated? And then we were struggling for the advent of the vaccine as our primary means of protection and immunity. Now, having this scientific luxury, should we not accept it and not at the same time be concerned about whether or not we go through the same thing with a new vicious circle of illness? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President. The vaccination of health workers and all workers in health establishments is in no way compelling. The standard requirement to be in a position is not compulsion. As a doctor I was the first to look forward to being vaccinated with as much scientific authority as my humility may salvage as a minister of medicine. I'm a surgeon and of course not an infectious person. In this regard, we hear the infectious ones and follow the surgeons. The scientific companies' guidelines are being monitored and not authorities serving their selfish and irresponsible egoism. So all the sanitarians must do and listen to the scientific community, because science and the right reason is the gift of God to man. The scientists have. So let us finally stop'revolutionism' and political hypocrisy. We must say, for reasons of ethics and political honesty, a collective 'no' to moderation and exploitation of tendencies from the electorate to unwritten electoral clients. We need respect for science. And yes, if the advent of the new wave takes asymmetrical proportions that will deplete the reserves of the ERC, it is self-evident and totally acceptable to adjust the powers, the search for any services to preserve public health, as provided for in this amendment. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Moreover, the fertile dialogue you hypocritize never to be exhausted, but the critical determination to the crucial and necessary effectiveness in emergencies never waits. The modulation of the treaties does not allow us a luxurious time and I will say it as politely as possible, citing something from my beloved Emmanuel Roidis: "To deal with the general and simply theoretical issues in Greece is about this, as a surgeon, surrounded by sorceres, instead of treating the sword and the fire against the flesh, he became authors of the realities of plume and food." There is a clear ideological difference that is demonstrated in the most official way. We define as an absolute risk the protection of public health. You define as such the guarantee of jurisdiction. You are heroinating the rights, instead of protecting yourself in health itself. I would like to say two rather practical points. He's not here, and he's not the minister we're all looking forward to in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u175	But please, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u176	I shall conclude with that, Mr President. Because this government is here not to legislate with analgesia and autocracy, as it is undoubtedly accused, but to recognise problems and demonstrate flexibility and adaptability, I think it is crucial that the committee asks and seriously investigate the possibility of our officials who have had more than six months of illness and have a high qualification of antibodies if they could not be excluded. It's about a large part of our people who went out on parole. It is about the reality of hospitals, the sovereign of northern Greece, because the wave has hit us not at the time of the third wave. We need to exhaust whatever flexibility we have, if this is acceptable to the Committee of Scientists - I would point out that - because in these hospitals our coverage is always marginal because of a variety of different and objective data and chronic data, I should add. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance of Ms Mousalas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Look, the debate is also on the New Democracy side every time it relies on a trick and there is really a huge difference between the New Democracy, SYRIZA, and I imagine the Change Movement and the Mer25 and the JRC. Our ideological differences are not against refugees and immigrants. What we are talking about here today is the rule of law. We don't care if you love them or we don't love them, if anyone loves them, they hate them. That's not what we're fighting for. We are fighting for the implementation of the rule of law in the European country called Greece, in Europe, which is Europe after the Enlightenment, after World War II and after so many movements that created the legislation. We're not fighting for this immigrant or this refugee. We are also fighting for this, but in the House we do not raise this issue. In the House we raise the question that, after World War II, an international law was created, which was extended by European law and our national law, is subject to it, but yet it is good and we say that this must be applied. Not every Mitarakis, every Mozala, every Mitsotakis, every Tsipras can do whatever he wants in relation to the refugee and the immigration. This is the United Nations decision, this is international legislation, that is Europe's legislation. This is the debate we are having today. You through various lies, through different tricks, are trying to degrade and alter her. Border security: you have tired us with this thing, you have tired the international community with this thing. I tell you for the last time because we say it every time: the border is guarded by the government with the Army and by the police. It's the Constitution. If you think Tsipras caught Stephanas and said to him: "Master, make the wrong eyes pass," you have to do SAD for Stephen. I have to say that Stefanis as general in Thessaloniki then helped in the big crisis. I don't have anything. The other guy who guards them after crossing the border is the police. If you think Tsipras caught Tsubalas and told him "Let them pass" and Tsubalas did it, breaking his oath, you have to do SADs. You don't believe them, you just say them, because otherwise you would say that Samaras left the border unguardedly in 1989 and a million Albanians came. You're not saying that. But you're making fun of the world. You go to the humbler feelings one can create in the feelings of fear. We were never a clear vine. We worked well with the Army, with the Police, based on International Law. That's where our difference lies. It's not if we have a border at sea. You say it again. It's corn now. It's how you deal with refugees and immigrants at sea. We call rule of law. You say deterrence. Minister for Immigration has heard speaking in the European Parliament about deterrence. How on earth are you going to prevent it from going into the sea? You did it before, you do it now, and Europe has you in the microscope for push back at sea, it has cut you off funds that the port is entitled to ask you to set up an independent authority that controls you. You don't do it and you make heroic reasons. 'We disapproved'. What do you mean when you say "averted"? What did you do with the boat? Where did you take the boat? You're being denounced by the German government, you're being denounced by the Danish government. I'm not talking about NGOs. FRONTEX has been placed in the microscope for its participation in actions which should not be taken. And you're telling us about border guards? We're talking about safeguarding international law and you're talking about Pharmaceuticals? You've reduced the flow. You said it one, you said two, you said three. How did you reduce the flow? One came out here - I am not personally referring to it, not to take it personally - and he said "on the basis of our determination Erdogan is afraid that we may sink the refugees and may drown and not send them". You go tell Europe this argument, that Erdogan has a more good international policy than we do, that Erdogan is afraid not to drown and that is why he does not send them. On the contrary, I will say - and you will charge it to me not to SYRIZA and I will apologise to the comrades - that you have indeed achieved a great reduction in flows because Erdogan, the Turkish state and the para-state have stopped sending people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This, gentlemen, happened - and put down the dates - after your secret Berlin meeting with Merkel and Erdogan, the respective representatives, not Erdogan and Mitsotakis. We never found out what was decided there, but shortly after the flows were reduced and the "ORUC REIS" remained eighty-two days in the Greek waters. You've eaten us with Evros. We were there together, there was all the opposition there. There was an attempt to manipulate refugees and immigrants from Erdogan for dealing with it as any Greek government would deal with it. You blame us for returning and deporting them. Let me tell you something, Minister, you haven't made a return. You haven't made a return. You're lying. It's not your fault you haven't made any returns. The others don't take them. It is the fault of you that you keep saying'refunds', 'deportation'. You haven't made a deportation. Albanians, Bulgarian Romanians, okay. You're lying. You're building a superpower that you don't have and that's going to leave us unexposed. A European Union shield. He said, 'I did not say so'. Mr. Mitsotakis said so, along with Mr. Sternas. And you're calming down. 'We will not be a gateway'. The gateway is a geographical term. Geography doesn't change the rheumatism. Politics can change. When you say 'European shield', then, you condemn the country that is objectively a gateway into or is at war with non- enemies - legally, I always speak in the rule of law - or sink boats or gather to Greece all those who succeed in one way or another. Instead of going to Europe with the powers that refugees and immigrants want to share, apply the rules of law, go to Europe with Orban, go with Salvin, go with these groups. You have changed a policy that we are very proud of. Why? Why did we do all right? Oh, no. But we have succeeded and worked with Juncker, a People's Party, with Thomas de Mezier, a People's Party, with Ashlborn, a Social Democracy, we, the Left. We made the Europe-Turkey Agreement. As we'd like? Oh, no. But he put a barrier, gave us a breath to move forward. I'm sorry, I'll talk faster. Thank you, Mr President, for giving me time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u179	But finish, Mr Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u180	I'd like two more minutes. As far as the facilities on the islands are concerned, you have created the problem. Remember where the facilities started on the islands? Mr. Stefanis came out here with a map of the Levithas and said what the Greek Solution said, we should go to dry islands. That was your first approach. What was the other approach? Closed centers of seven thousand people on the islands. You were talking about it. This created the turbulence. The European Union did not pay them, and then they became a little controlled, a little closed, a little differently. Are we against this? You were opposed to our attempt to create small pre-repeal centres on the islands, not prisons, pre-repeal centres so that those who fall under the Europe-Turkey Agreement can return. You're up. We fought it in the House, in local government, everywhere. An emergency center was held on the islands, we did it in Kos, decent. Pre-compensation centers, gentlemen, are not prisons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u181	Close, Mr. Muzala. The bill. Now that's...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, let me tell you something. Give me a right to my suffering all these years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u183	Okay, it's not a matter, it's the Rules of Procedure. I have shown the greatest tolerance, but it is for a generalised debate what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u184	I'm done. Thank you for letting me finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u185	Please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u186	I wanted to say this to Mrs Buddhism. Mrs. Buddhist honestly has no personal assault. I was happy with what you said you were going to do, but you're not telling the truth. You received children who were vaccinated, who had medical care and your government - not you - abolished it, who were going to school and you took it out. We had contracts with the NRP, we had contracts with Panteion, we had with IOM, we made programs. I am very pleased that you will now proceed and I welcome that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr. Muzala.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u188	Last sentence, Mr. President. SYRIZA has a very specific view of what needs to be done. We say it and it's over. A European Council must be convened directly for Afghanistan. Europe and the international community must fight the violence of the Caliphat, the cause before the outcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u189	Don't go to other issues, please. Please, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u190	They have to come back...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u191	No more reason, please. We have set a roll-call vote and colleagues from all parties have been invited for a specific time. Please and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u193	Yes, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u194	Look, because there is a lot of talk about the issue of children, do not confuse the children who were unaccompanied and were in some structures, with the children, Mr Muzala, who were on the islands and you didn't know where they were. We're talking about two different things. There were unaccompanied people who were also in your day who were in certain structures and were vaccinated, but there were thousands of unaccompanied islands that the special secretariat gathered and had them all together in safe structures. That's the difference. Don't play with the kids' numbers now. She did it before Mrs. Fotio. It is another thing that we have received in the structures and another thing that we have gathered from the insecure spaces that have been found. That's what we're saying. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Republic now has the floor, Mr Vassiliou - Peter Spanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate has not focused on the advantages and positive aspects of this bill. Today we are discussing a draft law by the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum containing regulations on expulsion and return procedures, rules on residence permits and protection, and a series of arrangements for attracting and facilitating investment by citizens of third countries. The bill has some advantages that need to be heard in this Chamber. And what are these? Firstly, clear and necessarily stricter rules are being introduced into the procedures for returning and deporting third-country nationals residing illegally in the country. Greece cannot in any way be or give the impression that it is a clear vine. Greece is not a clear vine with Government Mitsotakis. Secondly, the proposed arrangements contribute deterrently to future flows with the resulting provisions. It is a sensitive issue for immigration, with Europe being a desirable destination for many refugees and immigrants, and our country being a key pass. There have also been refugees and economic migrants. We have sensitivity and we fully understand the issue. We must therefore be fair, but also strict, where necessary. In particular, we must not have clear rules so that there is no room for misinterpretation and above all for exploitation. Our country is a democratic country, it is at the heart of Europe and the European Union, and it fully respects individual rights, as well as all European and international treaties. In this there is no question at all and anyone who supports the opposite probably has no idea. On the other hand, because we have lifted much weight on immigration, especially over the last five years, and at the moment there is the serious issue with Afghanistan, we should in no way give the impression that anyone who wants to get in, who wants to do what they want. Above all, we do not want and will not allow Greece to be the gateway to Europe for the poachers' circuits. This bill sends a clear message to the poachers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u197	Muzalas said it well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u198	I'll see you in this Chamber. Thirdly, we provide with this draft law incentives for investment, incentives to boost the economy, one of which is the introduction of the concept of digital nomadic. This is a new type of visa that enables workers and officials from third countries to stay for up to 12 months to work from our country. Fourth advantage: codified and simply, in the same context of incentives, to attract investors, we bring investment mobility. For example, a third-country citizen who has received the golden visa for an investment in a bank deposit in a investment product can make use of its investment capital, can in another sector, in another investment product, buy real estate or make a combination of investments. On the individual provisions of the draft law, which in most cases relates to amendments and changes to the provisions of Laws Nos 3907/11, 4251/17, No4639/19, No4375/16 and others: Indicatively, the provisions of Article 4 shall be explicitly inserted in which the principle of non-refoulement is reflected. Article 5 sets out the remedies against a return decision, and Article 7 seeks to reform the procedure for granting voluntary withdrawals to the strictest, so as not to abuse the period of voluntary departure provided for by third-country nationals who have been found illegal in the country. The second part amends some provisions of the Immigration Code in order to improve matters arising from the inability or delay in performance of rejection decisions for granting or revoking residence permits. To this end, arrangements shall be made for the use of technologies and computers in administrative procedures. This chapter includes the very important arrangements I have already mentioned, but I particularly emphasise them for the process of transferring funds intended for investment to Greece, the granting of residence permits to investors wishing to change the investment sector, the possibility of investing in more than one sector, and the arrangements for attracting digital nomads. I stress this, ladies and gentlemen, because all this will give the Greek economy great strength. And you see that in each of our bills there are special provisions that strengthen and give prospects to the Greek economy. The third part of this bill includes, inter alia, arrangements on the issue of covering medical needs and social security for unaccompanied minors whose application for international protection has been rejected, but cannot be adopted or implemented by a decision to remove them from the country. This is addressed by the fact that the provisional number of insurance and health care for a foreign person remains in force. There are also arrangements regarding the secondment, transfer and transfer of personnel to the Asylum Service or the Reception and Identification Service in order to better address the needs of these services. And so that we do not forget, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, how you left us the asylum services. Do not forget in this Chamber. Finally, the fifth part includes the provisions extending the beneficiaries of financing from the Solidarity Fund. Nowadays the municipalities are more able to be the regions with the legal entities governed by public law. The objectives of funding are also being widened to support local communities that have borne most of the weight of migratory flows. Ladies and gentlemen, the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum is bringing about a just bill with the provisions of which the country is shielded while protecting all those who really need it and fulfil strict conditions. At the same time, we provide additional incentives for investment and strengthening the Greek economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u199	And I thank Mr. Spaniard. I will now give the floor to the SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Burnus, and immediately after the speech, the Minister for Health Mr.Pleris will be given. Mr. Burnus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. In this bill, you continue your policy when you took over the country's government and almost collapsed the entire management system of the migration-refugee issue, namely the policy of building administrative and bureaucratic obstacles to any process involving asylum seekers with a puppet thinking that you would discourage them from coming, but with a practical result of subjecting thousands of to a deprivation regime, between a refugee status, which is never acquired, and expulsion, which is almost never done. So we have a series of provisions with the sole aim of increasing suffering, adding paradoxically, minimizing application and appeal deadlines, abuse procedures and even overthrow the daily lives of children. You extend the detention doctrine and in every way make it difficult for applicants for international protection against the provisions of the European Asylum Directive. In other words, since July 1919 you have consistently followed the line of the new Minister of Health or the Minister of Development "to make their lives difficult, to see them as Pakistan heaven". Of course you cannot take it to where the extreme right-wings who control your party would like, because Greece remains a constitutional rule of law, a member of the international community and the European Union and a country with strong democratic resistance. But you want to make us an authoritarian, vengeful, xenophobic state like Hungary in Orban. You have reached the point where you are even criminalising humanitarian rescue even from recognised organisations and you are asking for written approval to save people at risk. The moral curse is embarrassing and directly undermined for the country's international prestige by complaints multiplying. Of course the policy to trouble them is short-sighted, foolish, and it brings the opposite results to the objective. First of all, because you can't even make us any worse than Pakistan and Afghanistan so they won't come. Whatever you do as much as impoverish the poor and weak citizens of Greece remains unparalleledly preferable to the countries of origin of immigrants and refugees while you cannot change its geographical position. Greece is a host country for the European Union and a transit country for northern Europe, the desired destination for all refugees and immigrants, and that will never change. You are pursuing a policy which, like all the extreme right-wing approaches to the problem, is mystical and self-destructive because it ignores the basic political dimension of the problem, namely the need for central European management, the need to involve all the countries of the European Union, as much as those which are the destination of the refugees. You are ignoring the political priority of proportional distribution and resettlement. It is a political problem, not an operational one, and it is a problem not only of Greece, but of the whole of the European Union on the basis of institutional solidarity between partners and, above all, between the northern countries and the first country. Immigration is not a question that will be solved by the expulsion and imprisonment of refugees on Greek territory and even on our islands such as Lesvos, Chios or Kos. It is a problem of a flow of immigrants and refugees to one of the most prosperous regions of the world, the European Union, with a population of half a billion and its northern countries being a desirable destination for millions of people even for Greek immigrants. The President of the European Parliament has shown the self-evident responsibilities of the entire European Union for its Afghan and its obligation to recognise the problem and to respond to a common position. Therefore, instead of Mr Mitsotakis' completely childish criticism of Mr Sasoli, who has been opposed to him because the President of the European Parliament has denounced the ostracism of the governments, you should now demand the convening of the Council of the European Union for a central strategy for managing the refugee current from Afghanistan, which includes, firstly, pressure on the Taliban to stop the extremes, secondly, intervention by the European Union for the humanitarian corridor of those at risk in Afghanistan to the border with that country and from there organised relocation of refugees to the European Union with a proportionate and fair distribution by country without exceptions. And when governments, like your favorite Visegrad, do not show the necessary solidarity with the host countries, they must suffer severe financial consequences. Only this policy can reduce currents through Turkey to Greece. Instead of all this, you have drawn up with the most xenophobic and political cynical group of governments so that Europe can come up with another catastrophic management to satisfy tiny and selfish perceptions that will ultimately have one effect, namely, that we should charge the whole problem on behalf of Austria, the Netherlands and Germany. Let us understand that and you too. You want to make us Hungary, but we do not have Hungary's geographical location. Any selfish and foolish management in the frontal logic "outside of us and let them go where they want" has and will always have, legally the same effect of eventually enclaving everyone in Greece and the islands of the East Aegean, turning into a store of souls and managing the problem through methods of bureaucratic sadism and a demonstration of micropsy that breaks down the prestige of the country. Mr. Kurts and Mr. Orban will hit Mr. Mitsotakis on the back and Mr. Mitsotakis will load the problem in Lesvos and the remote islands.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u201	Thank you to Mr Burnus and to the consistency of time. Mr Ploris, Minister for Health, has the floor in order to place him on the amendment by a general number of 1054, and a special number of 9. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would first like to express my condolences to the death of the great Greek, Mikis Theodorakis. As my first position as Minister of Health, I would like to inform the Greek delegation of something that also relates to the amendment, on the course of suspensions, as they have been completed so far, as they are being launched, so that there is a picture exactly where we are. First of all, because the government's main priority, as the scientists say in dealing with the pandemic, is vaccination, I regret that today we have fellow human beings who have died and our fellow people who have been persecuted. And indeed, what our fellow citizens have to hear is that the intubated people at the moment are more than 90% - the previous 92%, yesterday 91%, today 90%, we have decided to give these data every day to appear - to be unvaccinated. And you have to take into account, ladies and gentlemen, that the percentages vaccinated are about 60% of the general population, 66% of the adult population and, basically, at the age of age, we are much more. So the vulnerable groups are vaccinated and they are protected. And if anyone thinks that the vaccines aren't doing anything or doing something, they should have been analogous to the ICUs. When we have 60% vaccinated and the Minister of Health tells you with the information we have that 90% of IFs are from non-vaccinated, it means that 90%, 91%, 92% is from the rest of the population is mostly a new world and they are also children who basically do not cause hospitalization in the IFs. So there's a lot greater risk of you getting sick and finding yourself in the ICU. And here we have to be clear. Those who question the vaccination to see the evidence, see that the great ages, which are vaccinated and would be the vulnerable now, are out of the IFO or are at much smaller IFO rates, below 10%, and that population basically is at a better age and has chosen not to be vaccinated at the same rates, is the one in the IFC beds. I think all the Members here must be clear. What about parole now? The government has decided that in some categories vaccination should be mandatory, in the sense that you cannot be and provide the services. We have chosen that there should be public health in the weighting between individual choice and public health. Did obligation work? He had and you'll see it now from the evidence I'm about to tell you. Because, before the mandatory vaccination begins, we have been talking about two-digit rates and a lot more in the National Health System, which were invasive. There was a hospital specific with 35% vaccinated and today is 87% vaccinated. And under the best prospects, we thought, when the measure was implemented and the state, the ministry, had been prepared, we would have suspensions of more than ten thousand people. Today I am telling you with the information - because there are some cases, but we think the difference will not be much greater - that we have to do for six thousand four hundred twelve suspensions at the moment. It's the evidence they gave me before I came here. This information will change upwards because the hospitals are currently working on people who have asked for sick leave or there are people who are in sick leave or for some reasons technically the process has not been completed. So we have a percentage that enables us to manage the situation in the National Health System to a large extent and with the amendment that I will present to you. At the same time, the EAW has around five hundred people on parole, the four hundred of whom are crew members in a total of four thousand eight hundred worlds that it employs. So while the direction has so far been that the unvaccinated world would be back to work when it completed its vaccination and would have been fourteen days, because we had the possibility that those who had not been vaccinated by 31 August had the first vaccine to remain in the system, with a statement I made yesterday and you will have been informed of the amendment that will come next week, we will also give them the possibility that these people now who have not been vaccinated as soon as they are in the vaccination process, i.e. in order to be able to get into the system. I already have evidence that for 1 and 2 September there are people who have gone and said to be vaccinated, which means that it has been influenced to some extent by what he heard, because it would seem absurd to me to have someone vaccinated on the first of the month that the suspension was starting. We are doing this precisely because we respect all workers in the National Health System who supported him. There is no controversy with them. In fact, I informed him of the President of the WTO yesterday who asked for a meeting that I will see him as soon as possible, because I want to see the people and tell them what we are doing and what we are doing, so that they know what the government's intentions are and not to be surprised, to know and to explain everything that will be done to them. At the same time, we have taken this initiative, so that today people who close vaccination will know that once the amendment to come next week is passed can be reintroduced into the National Health System. Because I watched that there were some reports of malfunctions that were presented and I tried and came in contact with all the U.S.A.s, to see where there is a problem, problems occur in some hospitals. It's much less the number of doctors who've been suspended. The gaps are currently covered by internal changes and will be covered - and this is why the amendment has to be voted on today - and in accordance with the procedures to be laid down in the amendment. I was also informed, because I saw that there was a protest and I see that many have raised the issue, for the eighteen "Papanikolaou" beds. I would also like to inform you that these eighteen ITH beds worked when they were needed with the existing staff. They didn't work with any more staff. At the moment they are not in operation - I spoke directly with the Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs - because there is no waiting in Thessaloniki and with the existing staff can function whenever they need them. I have asked the Secretary-General himself to make the plan work and the adoption of the notice on these IF beds - but I would like to believe that the approval of recruitment will be completed in general - it will be signed by the Minister, by me next week. So the recruitment issue for these ICUs will be given an immediate solution, but now these ICUs at any time we need them, with the existing staff and with changes they can work. I wanted to look into things again, and I think the national delegation should be informed. For example, an incident had been heard, that there was a nurse who told the daughter of a tumor patient "if you are not vaccinated, and you in three years will be here". We searched the incident. There isn't. Also, on some occasions that said resignations, resignations have not been filed. We are now going to see what the amendment lays down, because I have already heard that in the first amendment I am bringing, we are going to privatise the ESS and refer to the positions which, yes, I have expressed them, namely that there must obviously be public-private partnerships. And if they decide to be done in any way, they will obviously be done by procedures that will come here and we will discuss in a bill. Is that a bill, though? No, ladies and gentlemen. You are making the big mistake here in my view - another to disagree with the framework of the suspension you have said - to put a roll-call vote. Why? Because if this is not voted on, the decision of the government that has taken it and wants to place the suspensions will be a problem with the functioning of the ERC. What does this amendment mean? Beyond the extensions, I won't say, 'cause you know them. It's the extensions that go through all the time. It gives the possibility of moving, gives the possibility of hiring staff for three months to cover the positions of staff who have been suspended. And what has caused you the greatest objection is that it gives the possibility to provide benefits and services to individuals for three months, for as long as this process lasts and that these may be at staff services level, may be at diagnostic examination level. Because there are too many of them in the numbers that you have seen and there may be a need for diagnostic tests outside the national health system. And it enables the EKT, if there is a problem, to be able to do stays with private ambulances. This whole process is for three months. I, too, look at you in the eyes and want to be honest, because what I am saying to you, because I have basically been a Member of Parliament, and I have seen many times that the Member of Parliament is surprised, I intend not to surprise the opposition. Indeed, we could discuss any partnerships. And because I hear what they say 'these are my positions', they are my positions and I have, of course, expressed - a government policy - that there must be public-private partnerships. If, therefore, this is decided to move forward, to be done and to make the reforms we want, it will be a bill that we will discuss. But that's something else. It is the coverage of the specific needs that exist for a three-month extension, precisely because of the suspension and until the suspension is completed. At the same time, precisely so that we do not surprise ourselves, as in the National Health System and in all the countries that have to do with units, there is the suspension, respectively, of private doctors who do not wish to be vaccinated, who cannot provide their services in private clinics and are now being examined and will come, when they are ready, and what exactly the consequences will be for private doctors in general as long as they are not vaccinated, again not with a punishment. A doctor cannot be invaded to operate on a person. There's no way an invasive doctor gets in to see a patient. Because, as I have shown you from the first elements we have, over 90% in the ITH invasive world, we want to protect the man who will receive a service from a doctor who, in the assessment of science, does not show the sensitivity that the scientific community has to define so that he has been vaccinated. And he has the right to put himself at risk, but his service is such that it does not allow him to put others at risk. So this amendment for a certain time sets out the tools that the ERC will have in order to be able to function. The framework of the suspensions went less than the state calculated. So we also think with the motive we gave the second chance in the world, instead of waiting for a month and a half if he is vaccinated, when he is vaccinated and will be voted on next week to return to work. At the same time, because these rates may be smaller in total, but there are areas that are more, there are skills that exist, where staff need to be used, it will be done. We wanted it to be voted today in order to begin the process and we think and say from here that both within the framework of the suspension and protecting public health and there will be no problem of functioning in the National Health System. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u203	Thank you too, Minister. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has been asked to take Mr Paulakis. Mr. Polakis, you have the floor. Come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u204	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Mr. Plori, you have not made a good start in your term as Minister of Health. As much as you tried with sweetener statistics and a relatively mild apologetic style to gold the pill, you didn't get any pills. You have just shown your intentions from the outset. Look, Mr. Pleari, because now we're not talking out of reality, we're talking after a year and a half a pandemic. We're talking after thirteen thousand seven hundred dead. We're talking after eight and a half thousand dead outside the ICU when we doubled the ICU beds. We are talking about a fourth wave before the gates with a mutation that scientific data from countries with higher vaccination rates than our own show that it is not covered. And I don't want to be a bad guesser - do not move your hands, scientists - but the epidemiological picture that our country will have in a short time is like the country - a model of Israel, which yesterday had sixteen thousand eight hundred cases. And on this given given and instead of throwing all the weight of your work, your attempt to strengthen the National Health System, you in an ideoleptic obsession that for all of us you will save the vaccine, you will inhibit the health that no one has left behind. You have come to a contradiction beforehand, Mr Ploiros. Understood? You said that the evidence is very good, they're much less than the ones we counted. I know you counted twelve, thirteen thousand. Six thousand have come out. We're fine. On the other hand, if we do not go through the amendment today, we are lost. That's exactly what you said. We're not deaf here. So listen. I'm not gonna stand by the evidence. There's not one left over. There's not one left over. We as SYRIZA have supported vaccination and have put back on vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u205	How about you? How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u206	Don't move my finger. Don't shake my finger, because I'll remind you what the Central Israeli Council did to you the other day. Eminence and humility. Let's go down. But imposing some things is another proof of the work you have done with the pandemic. And you're working on it to pass the policies you've decided on, and right now you're almost all moving on in the name of the pandemic and not to fight the pandemic, right? So at the beginning of last year you shared some billions of direct assignments in a scandalous way - we led many of them to justice, for example, by Mrs Nicholas - in the name of direct supply of personal protection measures. After we filed the lawsuit, he hasn't bought a hanger, has he? - while every week he was throwing pounds and hundreds of thousands. You made the House work under special and exceptional conditions, and we went through in secret and violating and with the help of the "Flying" media in bankruptcy law, the abolition of eight-hour, the abolition of overtime payments and overworking, the abolition of collective agreements, a series of bills you would not dare to do so. And today, Mr. Plori, yes, that's what you do, no matter how golden it is. It's not temporary, it's permanent, but you won't be permanent in the government. That's why it's not gonna happen. What you've had in you so many years, neoliberals, you've been on the ground from pandemic and you're working on it to do it, i.e. renting private ambulances to do secondary or even extraordinary courses. Mr. Plori, I opened the base of Syros, the base of the Coast, and strengthened Rhodes. At the moment I hear that the Coast is practically closed, Rhodes had been closed for too many days and Syros is closing. Why don't you reinforce it and suspend the workers of the EKP, who are many crews from what I've learned, and will private ambulances do their homework? And three months are enough for a ball and a predator, Mr. Pleari. They're too many. Or the other idea, which we proved to you at that time by the example of "Evangelism". You were giving the private contractor EUR 4.5 million and women received EUR 500 a month. And we gave EUR 2.5 million and women received EUR 700 and 800 a month. And now you're bringing them back on occasion. Maybe they'll get services. And you're doing something else, and the Theanoo Fotio said it before. I'll testify. You know, it's the first time this has happened. "MY SERVICES", "Eleftherios Venizelos 135-137, Annex of MEDIA of western Athens. The Securiti company, ladies and gentlemen, gives seven nurses directly assigned by the coordinator of the services of the Social Welfare Centre in Annex AMEA West Athens, seven nurses. The hard core of health services gives him, the president inhabits him by a company that makes depopulation, mystics and a security firm. These "feds" are reintroduced into the hospitals in the name of the pandemic. That's what you're doing. Or the other one that you've wanted for so many years. He found you, too, like the late Spaniard, who had found for us, to buy, to do to us the private diagnostic actions of hospitals, biochemicals, blood cells, etc. Because - and well - we're cheaper. And now, if you have a problem with some paramedical department that doesn't exist, because they're going to be suspended, I'm gonna give the job out, opening up, not buying door, but door and huge entrance gate, so that people can enter. That is what you are doing, Mr Ploiros, with this amendment. And that's why we're telling you to take her back and change minds in the management of the pandemic. I will once again say what I said to your predecessors. First of all, make me a meth. Yanna Angelopoulou cannot report to you for the eighteen beds. They cannot send a resignation letter from the five qualified doctors at Rethymnon Hospital, because you have them do all the sessions, who do a very serious job at the ITH there. And I know that from the same experience, because I'm watching with them a relative of mine who's been hospitalizing these days, too heavy by a coronary. Secondly, bring the drugs, as other countries have brought them. And because you used numbers, I will tell you this: Yesterday Israel had sixteen thousand eight hundred cases and forty-two deaths. He had seven hundred and fifty heavy incidents and 53% were double vaccinated. We had two thousand eight hundred incidents, and 10% of ICU tubes are double vaccinated. It's not a small percentage, Mr. Plearis. And he'll grow up. And we had, in the two thousand eight hundred incidents, thirty three deaths. How's the difference? It's not only due to vaccination. It's because of the healing weapons you use. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In short, bring - yesterday - the antibodies. We've reached the thirteen thousand seven hundred fifty dead. There's an idea of this. So many other countries have brought them. They're using them and they're working. Bring them in. Don't bet everything on the vaccine. Bourla already came out and said there's the last mutation, the "Mu", that doesn't catch any vaccine. It'll become the endemic coronary. That's natural history. We may make a vaccine every year, the vulnerable groups. But because we have to save every human life, bring the drugs. It's an agonizing call I'm making. Do not continue your predecessors' policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr Polakis. The Group of the European People's Party has requested the floor for this intervention by Mr Mylonis. Then Mr. Kamines will speak on the side of the Change Movement. We have said that one per parliamentary group will take the floor. Mr. Mylonakis, you will not speak from the Step. You'll speak from your position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u208	I'm gonna have to take off the mask. I can't talk to the mask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u209	No, I can't allow that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u210	Mr. Paulakis spoke from there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u211	Mr. Paulakis was not on the list of speakers. A further list was given and spoke as a normal speaker. I don't know if you understand. In fact, the reason was given and will not be given another reason. However, because you're in the middle of the way, come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u212	Otherwise, I'm gonna have to take off the mask. I can't talk to the mask. Mr. Paulakis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u213	Mr. Paulakis was a normal speaker on the SYRIZA side of the seven minutes. You - and anyone else - will speak of an intervention which is clear to the Minister, as is done in the procedures for the positioning of the Ministers on amendments. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u214	We'd be done, Mr. President, now. The problem with the mask is we're all living it. You can't talk to the mask. We're not here with the muffins. Minister, this morning I raised the issue of the "Papanikolaou" Hospital and the eighteen beds of the ICM, which was donated by the "Greece 2021" Committee. I didn't expect that answer. I was expecting a clear answer. That it worked and that the doctors go in from elsewhere, and if necessary it works, all these are Hallima's fairy tales. Has the staff hired ten doctors and forty nurses for exactly this ICU? Unless you want to tell us that the ICU is on board. So we've got the backup, and when we need to get it out. It's not like that. Tell the doctors, these televises that they come out every morning and they hit the world. This is an issue that the world has hated. Most of them don't get vaccinated because of them. Every day from morning to night they say: "Make a vaccine, or you'll die." They're bringing mortars. I can't do this anymore. I can't take it anymore. On the one hand the ICUs are closed and on the other hand they're close to filling up. What are these fairy tales? Let's get serious. Secondly, you have given the mark clearly of privatization of the ERC. You said exactly that when it is mature, the private and public partnership would come here. So what you're doing right now and you're saying is that you can hire staff. What kind of staff will be hired for three months, Minister? When you need to hire a staff, what staff will you hire? Will they be gynecologists? Will they be orthopaedics? Are they gonna be ophthalmologists? Are we going to get intensifiers? Are we gonna find pneumonologists? What are we going to the clinics?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u215	The missing will be replaced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u216	The issue is who. What you don't understand is the specialties. Do you understand the specialties? If, like, the pilots are leaving, can Mr. Buckooster go make the pilot? Are you kidding me? Mr. Pleari, you're a serious man. I think you have all the guarantees. They put you there to intercept. The issue with the staff has to be seen. The reason that the ESS will be privatized, forget it. Let it go. Private ambulances. Private clinics to send people. To billions for the expenses. We've got the NSA. Let's fix it. Create primary health, secondary care and move on. The Greek solution is voting against the amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr. Mylonakis. Now Mr. Kamines has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u218	Mr President, I will take the floor too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u219	No, my colleague. I am sorry, and I said one per parliamentary group. It was for you, Mr. Paulakis, with a great time. Otherwise, we will have a general debate. We have also set a specific time for the roll-call vote. You've asked for it. Mr. Kamine, you have the floor for three minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u220	I'm going to need much less time, Mr. President. We shall abstain from the vote, because you know that we have raised a matter in the Conference of Presidents. We have called for a convening of the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, because we note that there is a constant abuse of the parliamentary procedure on the subject of the amendments. Today, in fact, we also have to vote for an amendment from the Ministry of Sport, which has fourteen articles. This cannot go on. So we will abstain from the vote on all three amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u221	Only for your information, Mr Kamine, I have to say that the amendment was timely. He fell down last night. I have the impression - we all have experience here in Parliament - that it is not a short time to have someone twenty-four hours to study. In fact, it does not make me take the floor on the amendment, but I am also a Member and I read it, and most things are extensions of confirmed things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u222	That wasn't my point of view on the matter of time. The point was that there are now amendments which are whole bills.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u223	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u224	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u225	I want to answer Mr Kamine for his observation. I would point out that the government has indeed tabled four amendments to this draft bill. All four amendments are time-consuming. The KINAL came and filed one, but you submitted it late. Therefore, the Government has correctly implemented the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u226	Mr President, I have not referred to the deadline. I said something else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u227	Yes, you spoke of the last minute, an amendment with seven articles, a large amendment and when to make it possible. That's where an explanation comes from. Anyway, don't argue. Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u228	In order not to leave any margin of misinterpretation, in the JRC, as it is known, we are dealing with the vaccine as a popular right and need. We are in favour of mass safe vaccination and have proved it in practice and we claim it. Of course, we claim it in the fight and demand a modern state-of-the-art and free health system without any business activity. If that were to be the case, it would have ensured the protection of the health of the people, but it would also disarm the government from a convenient argument which has been exploiting all this time of confrontation between vaccinated and unvaccinated. But we want to ask the Minister this. Are the specific measures that you are taking today really exceptional because of health suspensions, when the substitution of public health units has not been dealt with all this time? Is it the first time that this travel industry is working, with which you hate a hole, opening up others? I will not go into detail. There are too many examples of this. Is the tactics of the recruitment of ancillary staff, which replaces contracts of others ending without addressing the gaps in the hospital, a new emergency measure which precedes the suspensions? We ask: How much were the gaps before drivers and crews of the EMCDDA throughout the pandemic and before that? Is the extension to provide for private employment in public health establishments, volunteers, pensioners, etc., with apparent negative effects on the functioning of the clinical departments, in three months' time, can address the lack of other scientists in the uniform functioning of the conditions of a section of a clinical service, which, in fact, may have, for example, retired people and because of their age? It is a new and extraordinary measure to allocate public hospital business to the private business sector, which is now being done on a wider scale, but is unfortunately being exploited with workshops, etc.Huh? It is too much for the government to be the defender of public health today. Did the people's exposure to the virus, increased cases and nursings become due to invasive health, or because of the 'help' protocols, which the tourism industry, as was the case last year, and with the Prime Minister from Santorini finally defending public health? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr. Secretary of Health, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I too wanted the floor. The New Democracy won't speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u231	I didn't see you, Mr. Buquoir. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u232	It is supposed that the procedure with the amendments is in our wishes to give some answers to specific questions by the Minister. That is why the placement is too short, Mr President. I have heard here a lot of points of view from some parties, expressed in a triumphant way, about a very specific question. Some sanitaries are on parole because of the vaccine's obligability and I really don't understand what they're saying. Will these health workers be temporarily replaced, so that the health system can work properly, or will they return to the health system without even getting into the vaccination process? We are listening here to parties who want to appear seriously and who hold the one truth, questions like 'what specialties you will hire', 'what will be one', 'how will the other be done', instead of being clearly placed. Do they support supplementation for a certain period of time, as the amendment clearly stipulates? Because two things may happen if they do not support this replacement. Whether they suggest that the sanitaries return without any vaccination procedure or the ESS remain, ahead of autumn, with these six thousand gaps. There's no other thing. One and one are two! He can't make eleven or a hundred, as he suits us! Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, too, and I apologise for not seeing you, to give you the floor. The Minister for Health now has the floor, Mr Ploris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u234	Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, I also answered for the ITH beds of the Papanikolaou Hospital. I said specifically that the eighteen ICUs donated by the Committee on Greece 2021, in February 2021, worked with the existing staff, with the moves that took place. If necessary, they will be reopened with the existing staff - and we have spoken - but at the same time, because Mr Mylonis put it, next week the announcement of these posts will be approved to operate properly, namely that they will not have to operate with the existing staff, but will be operating with the staff to be designated. So they can function and function are and there will be the staff, so that there will be no need to move around. With the Communist Party of Greece we have a completely different ideological approach. You think everything should have a hard core in public. We believe that there are obviously also possibilities for partnership with the private sector. What we are telling you, however, is that this amendment has nothing to do with it. It is right that Christos Boukokouros said that even if you disagree with the measure, the measure is implemented. We ask as long as this measure lasts - and we say for three months - whether to serve it or not, whether to provide services or not? Mr. Mylonakis, apparently doctors also exist in the private sector, why do you say where we can find? If it's a cardiologist who doesn't want to make the vaccine, a cardiologist from the private sector, who has been vaccinated, will come. We're clearing something up. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, I didn't understand what phase you applauded Mr. Polakis. It can't be two tendencies. Are you clearly and suddenly in favour of vaccination? So, you cannot applaud, when this Step by Mr. Paulakis talks about an idea of vaccination, while I am giving concrete evidence that 90% of the people who are in ICUs come from 40% of those who have not been vaccinated and 7%, 8%, 9% today are among the vaccinated, that is, 60% of the population that has been vaccinated, 66% of the adult population. That would have to find us all in agreement here and come to say that this is the proof of the effectiveness of the vaccines. And you chose a speaker from this party to come and answer the Minister of Health on a matter related to vaccination and inhibition, a health product that doesn't want to be vaccinated. And you applauded him, when he said, from this step forward, that it is not right what the Minister for Health says, that proof of the need for vaccination is that 92% of our fellow people, who are in pain in ICUs - and you talk to a person who has been in ICUsed and I can understand the pain that families have there - are inconvenienceless. So instead of a clear message that if we were all vaccinated, people would have been saved, lives saved, you would have come here and applauded him? And what else did he tell you? He told you unscientific things that the mutations are no longer taken from the vaccines. It's the former Deputy Minister of Health. Look at all the studies. And Israel, to which he referred, is the proof. With ten and six thousand cases there are very few nursing cases in proportion. It's the proof that the vaccines are working. And, yes, if there are alternative treatments, which are condemned by many, of course everything will join the system. But this does not replace vaccination. And you know what makes me more impressed? Some people call on the Ministry of Health and the Greek Government to use medicines which have not taken the approved procedures and are the same who are concerned about whether the vaccines, which have passed all the clinical phases - to say this to avoid inaccuracies - have been approved, the most specific of the vaccines have been tested because of the world of which they have done and have seen what complications, which are much smaller than if a patient is healthier passing through the disease. In these three days, I was trying to get up to these issues as well. And the healthiest person to pass the disease is likely to have much more to suffer than if he has been vaccinated. So we call on the whole world to be vaccinated and SYRIZA chooses on this issue to answer a sanitary... And be clear, because I told you: As long as I can't be surprised. And this amendment came yesterday and the amendment that we decided on and motivate the health workers to be vaccinated and not to stay for forty days outside the system, could come today, but we wanted you to see it, be submitted and come shortly later, and so I will try to bring the amendments. But you should know and say it clearly: Mr. Paulakis is health, he has suffered sanctions because he can't be in a clinic right now. That's the penalty. There will be other sanctions, not punishable. He's in public health. When you have chosen to take the Hippocrates' oath to go to a world and provide him with treatment, the major public health factor is not to be the factor he will become. In the scales, therefore, "public health and individual choice", yes, when you choose to be sanitary, you should know that public health is important. I understand Mr Polakis that next week with the sanctions to be voted on, he will have additional sanctions. There will be no exception for MPs. Those doctors who are not vaccinated cannot be in the National Health System can act in private clinics. If they are vaccinated, the National Health System gives them the opportunity to come back, showing that we respect the whole world, but we defend public health.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Minister. I mean, because it is time for the roll-call vote and we still have three Members who are impatiently following the procedure, I asked the Minister to resign his denial in order to make it easier and I would ask everyone to keep track of the time. Here, Mrs Poulou, you have the floor for two minutes as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are contradicting me. Indeed, in your first speech you said that only six thousand four hundred are working suspensions and that we can cover them with internal movements. That's what you said in your first talk. That's what you said. But you know what I'm going to tell you? I guess you're not going to cover just these inhibitions. You are going to cover the shortcomings in the health structures you have created in Greece for two years of pandemic. Obviously, the needs that have been created and the shortcomings in primary and in all hospitals in our country are so important that they actually work as hospitals, as structures providing a service to a disease. So we do not trust you precisely because you have these neoliberal views on PPP in the public health system and precisely because we believe that you are currently opening the loophole to serve all other interests. But you're still half-educated, uninformed. You didn't make it in three days. Mr Burlas spoke about the new 'Mu' mutation, which, if you like, appeared in Colombia - has she spoken about, has she? - and for which no vaccine is presently responding. But, Minister, I would say that you are due to an apology in this Chamber, and not only in the KSE, because here too, you have insulted your extremist views on several occasions and I think that they are inconsistent with the role of the minister you now have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u237	And I thank Mrs. Pulu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u238	Mr President, could I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u239	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u240	97% is currently the Delta mutation. Mr Paulakis did not refer either to 'Mu' or to 'Mu'. The Delta had been mentioned and we have heard him before. Say clearly that the world must be vaccinated. We're telling you the evidence: 92% of ICUs are people that don't get vaccinated. What I said about the six thousand four hundred who are so far is: Vassilis Kikilis, who is here, had designed for over ten thousand. And, indeed, the measure you saw it did. We went from the twenty-thousand world that was and calculated that we would be under ten thousand - we will see the exact number - but of course these gaps created must also be covered by internal movements and all that is done. The essence of the matter - clear messages - are: Vaccination is the solution, and that is why it is good that you do not put persons against vaccination.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Minister. The reason for the SYRIZA MEP - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Dritsa, and the request for timely compliance, is that we be at the limit of the vote. And I say, in fact, that I have pleaded and accepted that the Minister should not take any dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u242	Yeah, good, but the Minister has spoken. We haven't talked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u243	Yeah, but talk in time. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u244	And with tolerance and enthusiasm, Mr President. I understand the Members who have been invited to be here for the roll-call vote, but that does not mean that the procedure should not be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u245	Your right will not remove it from you, but you will allow me to invoke that I have never pushed you and have always been tolerant of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u246	I admit it and I appreciate it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u247	Now I ask you to keep as long as possible the time you are entitled to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u248	I admit it and I appreciate it. Nevertheless, I want at least for at least a minute to answer Mr Plory. Mr. Flouris, I've told you another time that you're a fighter lawyer, very experienced...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u249	Please don't speak. Hot request. Ladies and gentlemen, please do not make a fuss in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u250	...and you know very well with the same adequacy to defend both the defendant and the civil lawsuit. You have this ability and you and many other colleagues of yours. A little bit of this is what you have done in answering Mr Polakis, because you have responded a minute to defend your amendment and six minutes to look against Mr Polakis and to show SYRIZA that it is against vaccinations or does not have a clear place, when, at the very beginning of the pandemic, all our presence, from the President to all the executives and all the official decisions and actions of the party and Members, is in the direction of dealing with the pandemic with all the means and, of course, with priority - the vaccines, vaccination. And that cannot be called into question by any arguments of a legal level. I say that this amendment, Mr Ploiros, is precisely the proof of the conscious choice made by your Government, which you are defending, and now you are already taking part in it, from the beginning of the pandemic to do everything possible to ensure that the pandemic passes and that the relationship between the public and private sectors remains intact. This is the permanent core of this government's policy. That is why you have not actively strengthened the health system, which is why you are constantly working - and last year in Santorini and this year with the 'French' campaign - that the pandemic is over. And for the incomplete involvement in vaccination, your government's responsibility is enormous, precisely because you are strengthening all those who are restoring that pandemic will pass and you are the first to give these messages. You are also the first to do nothing at all in a serious campaign, only authoritarianly punishing initiatives, to convince not the sprayed or those who I don't know for any reason they end up in this choice, but the great majority who are afraid and who just have to pay the burden to the people who fear for any reason! Both the government and the Ministry of Health and the state are completely missing from this objective. SYRIZA everywhere has taken initiatives towards both the people who fear in solidarity structures and everywhere, precisely for that. And we are supposed to be doing so because we allow individual rights to be violated and we fight at that level. Well, let's finish this story. I'm going through the bill. Allow me, Mr President. You understand that it was absolutely necessary. Our parliamentary representative and the rapporteur have exemplaryly set criticism in this bill. Our rapporteur, George Psychogios, pointed out, among all the very good positions he has developed, that your policy is dangerous to everyone, because from the outset you did not know what migration-refugee is and you still do not know, because you consider it a matter of policing and an issue of internal advocacy to the intolerance of racism and xenophobia, common that you want to compete in the Greek Solution and other forces, as well as your hegemony escapes from all these views which are also translated into votes. That's why you abolished what Alexis Tsipras and our government were very willingly founded, the Ministry of Immigration and then you regret it because you saw how brutal and unexploited this option was. That is exactly what I want to say, Mr President, in my short time, a few myths, so that we can finish. Why are you coming here together - it is the fourth, fifth bill - and you are constantly in contradiction, that you are not covered by strictness and limitations. Mr Kamine also made a very good point on that. You are deeply naughty if you think that with the constant restriction of rights you will be able to deal with refugee and immigration! And I'm telling you, to finish with both the open and closed borders and the clear vineyards and with one another, in September of '14 fell Kobani from the Islamic state. It was the last hope of millions of Syrian citizens to stay close to their place in the hope that they might come back. Only in the second half of '14- is Mr Varvitsiotis here, he was Minister at the time - the increase in relation to the first half of '14-note - was 287%, of course in smaller sizes. And in September of '15 Merkel made an open invitation after the fall in Kobani, saying that at least Germany can get five hundred thousand Syrians, women, men and children. There too, many countries in Europe began to respond positively. At that time SYRIZA took over and right there, in January, the rate was down. From February, March, and then they began to grow and become gigantic. In this period of time a number of events took place, until the end of the '15s. Chancellor of Austria, Friman, came to Lesvos to strengthen his candidacy in Austria - it did not succeed in finally losing the elections - by calling for refugees and immigrants throughout Europe to support them. And when he met the late man, this great man, the master Mr. Kyriakos Papadopoulos, he didn't listen well when he asked how many he had saved and told him "you saved five shipwrecks"? And Kyriakos Papadopoulos answered him: "No, Mr Chancellor, I saved five thousand shipwrecks." That was the Port House at the time, without an open borders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u251	And that's what you're closing down with, Mr. Dritsa. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u252	And the image of Ailan on the shores of Turkey came a pile of money that went through - I will end with this, Mr President - there was not one in the SYRIZA government that was not recorded and that its data with Eurojust should not be given throughout Europe. And when we were asked, after the Paris criminal attack, in that 30-dead massacre, evidence from all countries, I was a Minister in half an hour...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u253	Hang up, Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u254	I have finished, Mr President, but these must be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u255	Please don't generalize. On the bill! That's for another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u256	No, Mr. President, it's not for another...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u257	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u258	...because intolerance gives rise to misery in every country, competition and ending wars. We can't talk about "slash," when right now in Afghanistan...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Dritsa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u260	Two years ago Mr Mitaris and Mr Mitsotakis would say that the Afghans are not refugees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u261	Mr. Drizza, close up. Please warmly. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u262	So I'm done with this. Then, in half an hour, our Ministry and the Port Corps gave the French all the information, one of the bombers that had then passed to Kos, and we had sent it all, but Europol had no open link with all the countries. And while it had the data, Europol did not disclose them elsewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u264	Is this the "SYRIZA's unspeakable vine"? Definitely, Argits! Because if you want to honor Theodorakis, you have to defend the child. Because if the child doesn't get away with it, there won't be any hope. And why these people, who fight for democracy, for peace and for justice, are only at odds with the law. That's how we will honor Mickey Theodorakis!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, Mr. Dritsa. The floor now has the SYRIZA MEP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, who has been diligent for many hours in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, what time will the vote be?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u267	After Mr. Xanthopoulou, it's Mr. Tolkas through Webex. Immediately afterwards - because I asked the Minister and he will not do a dentist, as will none of the rapporteurs do - we will go to the vote. So count about fifteen minutes. Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as a sign of recognition of my ten-hour stay in the Chamber, I really did not miss a minute from the procedure. I think this day the Mickey Theodorakis campaign lights up. I will say good-bye to Alexander's words: "There was also that perfect, Greek - quality does not have the honesty". I think it's enough. And from the highways to the haircuts. We are discussing a bill in which my colleague, Mr Yiannis Mousalas, actually laid the framework. We are not talking about how good we are to refugees or how bad you are, to the contrary. We are talking about the rule of law and the institutional guarantees enjoyed by the citizens of the world. We are talking about the conventions which bind our country, which belongs to the hard core of the states of the European Union. We are talking - in any case - about a long tradition that has been formed in Greece which is primarily a maritime state and we are trying to help each one of us to formulate criticism of the legislation that you are bringing us. And I would like to express my deep concern because the New Democracy is slowly transformed by a party of the people's right, by a centre-right party, he claims, into a party of the hard core of the deep right. And this is done unconsciously by diffusion. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, there are very specific provisions which employ the National Representation. First of all, you have the wrong approach to the problem, because you are dominated by the idea that if we make life difficult, they will not come. Does one of you think that conditions in any of the civil wars can be compared to the conditions in Greece that will be dissuasive? Will the man who survives the rabbits to avoid the bombings think that he doesn't have AMCA here or that we'll put him in Moria or in any other area of restricted freedom? You are mistaken - not wrong - it turns out tragically, but you are unable to understand it. So what are you doing? You are horizontally curtailing all deadlines in the logic of losing time and not exercising their rights by refugees. You establish a paradox 100 euros in Article 23, courageous and you do not know that this is a huge sum for people who survive marginally if they survive. So, in order to exercise his right, the citizen - the citizen of the world, I mean - will have 100 euros to be able to exercise the legal instrument? You must not approach these issues with this mentality, but you are doing so precisely because you have a reasonable oppression and crushing, 'to throw them into the sea, to show them that this is not a hospitable place', and in fact this country is at risk from the international legal order of which I insist it is an element. The rule of law shall not apply as appropriate. The rule of law concerns us and binds us all. You are establishing Article 40, which, in fact, you did not have in the consultation, Mr Minister, because the stones would have risen up and brought it to the body of the legislation, and it is a very serious violation of the principles of the Law of the Sea and we do not say so. Yesterday - I read - Mrs Djunia Miyatovic says: 'The Greek Parliament must review the political proposal under discussion, which would put serious obstacles to the work carried out by the NGOs at sea, which saves lives and enables possible human rights violations to be monitored in the Aegean.' This is the statement by the Commissioner responsible. In any case, it is very important to be able to deal with the problem with emblematic solutions. The migration is here and it's staying. Today you are the government, tomorrow it will be another government. The country must proclaim to all tons and demonstrate that it is a rule of law. With these arrangements introduced the country will have very serious problems and this has nothing to do with dealing with the refugee, it has to do with your logic of petting the preservatives, the xenophobic reflexes of a large part of Greece's society and coming to a great discrepancy with what is a tradition of all shipping and all of Hellenism for thousands of years, saving people at sea. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u269	Thank you very much Mr. Xanthopoulou for the time economy. And the reason is now Mr. Tolkas, MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, with the request, Mr. Tolka, put your watch next door to finish in seven minutes, because you will not hear the bell. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u270	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 287-290]] Ladies and gentlemen, "We are not Europe's shield, we are Greece's shield", this is what the Minister said a few days ago from here, from the House. It is a statement, however, far from the reality, as our country has experienced the previous migratory crisis that has shown that you cannot handle the refugee on your own and away from the developments. Furthermore, the Minister's statement in the face of the existing international problems that burn our neighborhood contains all the meaning of fear, xenophobia and isolation of the country. This is how the Prime Minister himself recently presented it with the well-known reactions from institutional representatives of the Union institutions, those who visited Evros in March 2020, congratulating him. Congratulations were accepted, but disagreements about lioning, because your main concern is your image at your overconservative audience. Today's bill is legislated in a test tube environment, without taking into account international developments, the obligations of a rule of law, the need for solidarity and humanism to be found in people where anyone can be found. And it is clear that the bill is linked to developments in Afghanistan, which were predictable months ago, when journalists, judges, were murdered, people who offered human rights. Last year about two million six hundred thousand Afghans were displaced to various countries in the world. Illustrations at Kabul airport show only part of the reality that thousands of desperate Afghans live, as a result of militaristic policy, but also of Trump’s policy to effectively leave control in the Taliban. America and other countries have already started and are discussing plans for the reception of displaced persons, as a new refugee crisis is evident with global consequences. Here, we close our eyes. Projects focus on human rights are being discussed for those who have been violently displaced, for those who worked with other forces, for those who are the Taliban targets, and especially for women. Efforts are being made to save those who are in danger of their lives, in cooperation with neighbouring countries that can accept refugees from Afghanistan, such as Pakistan or Iran, as well as those who have offered to host refugees, as - it matters because it is our neighborhood - Albania, Kosovo, Northern Macedonia. These countries have agreed to host refugees, to process asylum claims, to protect rights and to provide easy access to humanitarian aid. However, there will also be corresponding pressure on the European countries both to facilitate asylum procedures, to stop re-processes, and to support financially the effort. What does the ministry say? That we will be able to lock our country, make deportations easier, criminalise the action of those involved in rescue efforts for refugees and migrants at sea, limit the rights of people seeking protection under international law, i.e. using all means of deterrents to actually be Europe's shield, because Europe has found its available police officer with your own government. We say that we will protect our borders, as has always been done, but we will respect international law and human values. And this is our obligation both as a Greek state and as a European Union. That is what we did as a government in cooperation with everyone, with the European Union, the Army, the Police, the asylum services, and yes, the country did not become a clear vine, as all previous colleagues supported. All previous migration waves led to escalation... (doesn't sound because of a bad connection) the authoritarian regulators and leaders and... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) The migratory crisis has taught us that the lack of European solidarity, the refusal of reality, the absence of a plan and the refusal to support the arrivals of refugees and migrants are a burden on... (It does not sound because of a bad connection) of the host countries and creates political tensions that some are always irresponsible to justify repression and undermine democratic values, institutions and human rights. In one of the next chapters, too, on immigration, let me make a few remarks, which also arise from everyday life. [[It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...you must bear in mind that you have to anticipate and deal with the very many cases that even today... (doesn't sound due to bad connection) problems essentially... (doesn't sound due to bad connection) to legal immigrants.]] (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...you must bear in mind that we must anticipate and deal with the very many cases that even today... (doesn't sound due to bad connection) problems essentially... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection) to legal immigrants. In addition, the shortening of deadlines... (it does not sound because of a poor connection) it will unprotectedly leave the rights of immigrants either because of their financial weakness or because of the minimum time to prepare themselves to address administration and justice, and it will also put pressure on the relevant services. In fact, imagine, at this time of the coronary measures, all the relevant arrangements must be made within 30 days. Finally, immigration arrangements must be seen again and the abolition of renewal of humanitarian permits, as this provision has provided cover for real cases that were not provided for by the law or were particularly insufferable, especially in cases involving families, women and children or even people with health problems. For all the above, we are voting against the bill and because still the attack on the rights of people in need and seeking protection is a direct attack on society itself, as problems do not separate Greeks from foreigners, as was unfortunately heard... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection). Even the pandemic we have experienced, but also the natural disasters that we are experiencing more and more often, should wake us to the requirement as a country and as a European Union for solidarity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u271	Thank you, Mr. Tolka. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum, "Reforming expulsion and return procedures for third-country citizens, attracting investors and digital nomads, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection, and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum and the Ministry of Civil Protection, is finalised. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would ask the rapporteurs and the special speakers to declare their vote at the beginning of the bill. Does this House accept the bill at first instance?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u272	Yeah.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u273	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u274	You don't have the floor. We have entered the vote and we want your vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u275	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u276	There's not a minute. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u277	In our vote we say that in principle we are 'NATA'...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u278	We're moving on with Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u279	No, wait a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u280	You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u281	How do we not have the floor? We have a right under the Rules of Procedure to dentistry. Please, can I say something for a second? We respect all colleagues and the procedure. However, the rapporteurs still have one short second. If you want to do it like this, shame...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u282	Well, Mr. Psychoyte, I've discounted this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u283	I have not completed, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u284	Mr. Psychoyte, please. Mr. Psychogios doesn't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u285	That is unacceptable! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u286	We shall now proceed to the vote with the other rapporteurs. Is the bill accepted in principle?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u287	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u288	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u289	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u290	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u291	Therefore, the legislation of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum "Reform of expulsion and return procedures for citizens of third countries, attracting investors and digital nomads, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection and other provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum and the Ministry of Civil Protection" was accepted in principle by a majority. A request has been made for a roll-call vote on the Ministerial Amendment of 1054 and a special 9 by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group whose text reads as follows: I will not read out the list of signatories because, given the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. We are therefore adjourning the sitting for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u292	The adjournment of the session shall be resumed. Ladies and gentlemen, there will be a roll-call vote on Amendment No 1054 and a special 9. I would ask that the electronic voting system, which will be opened for a certain period of time, be opened for some of the Members on the way to come to vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u293	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues who make their votes known. These votes will be taken into account in the count, which will be followed and recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u294	Ladies and gentlemen, an hour has passed since the electronic voting system has been opened. [[CHANGING PAGE]] Therefore, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce the outcome of the roll-call vote on Amendment No 1054 and a special 9. A total of 277 Members voted. In favour of the amendment, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. In other words, 119 Members voted against the amendment. No one voted. The amendment under general number 1054, and a special 9, has therefore been accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u296	After the roll-call vote, we enter the vote on the articles, the remaining amendments and the entire bill, and they will be voted on separately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u297	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u298	Following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum: ‘Reform of expulsion and return procedures for citizens of third countries, attracting investors and digital nomads, issues of residence permits and procedures for granting international protection and other urgent provisions of the competence of the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum and the Ministry of Civil Protection’ was accepted by a majority in a single debate on the principle, the articles and the whole of it, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u299	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau to ratify the minutes of this sitting in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u300	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-09-03-S1-commons.u301	With the consent of the House at 20.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, September 6, 2021, at 15.00, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
