ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs in writing informs the House that they will be discussed today, Monday 22 November 2021, the following topical questions: Questions Nos 168/9-11-2021 and 190/15-11-2011 are to be answered by the Minister of Health, Mr Athanasios Plori. The Question No 193/15-11-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Civil Protection Mr. Panagiotis Theodorikos. Question No 307/14-10-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure), to be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Question No 175/12-11-2021 is to be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Simeon Kedicoglou. We shall immediately begin with the debate of the first under No 168/9-11-2021 in the first cycle of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Alexandros Meikopoulou to the Minister of Health, on "SOS broadcasts Volos Hospital without a reply". Mr. Micopulus, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, over the past few weeks it has been literally found in the “red” Achilles Hospital of Volos with regard to the hospitalization of patients with a coronary. For about two weeks now - I think we've been on the third floor - they've been hospitalized every day close to 100 CIVID patients in hospital clinics, intersected in ICUs, but also outside intensive care units. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] In fact, in the last few days, Magnesia has recorded a three-digit daily number of new cases of COVID, while we are no longer on weekends, but also on a day-to-day basis to record a high number of people leaving life. In this increased judgment regarding the pandemic, the hospital is once again, for a pandemic wave, Minister, without adequate staffing. Let me also mention some features in the second pathology of the hospital, which has also been managed by CIVID clinicals, should be served, according to the establishment plan of the hospital, seven permanent doctors. Today they are serving only five, with one of these five missing due to childbirth leave. In the 1st pathological they should serve seven permanent doctors and again serve only five, one missing with child’s permission to raise up. In the emergency department, which updates and manages coronary cases on a daily basis, by the ten permanent doctors provided for, covered positions are only four and two of them concern surgical specialists, which are naturally not responsible for the management of COVID patients. Of both, therefore, remaining physicians of the pathological field of the emergency department today serves only one, as the second doctor is lacking on childbirth leave. At a meeting held on 27 October, representatives of the Association of Doctors and Health Centres in Magnesia made very specific proposals for the emergency treatment of the hospital's subsistence and the need for direct support with staff, which, of course, have not been heard either by the 5th Health Region or by the Ministry of Health. In fact, almost three weeks after this meeting, which the Director of the 5th Health Region mentioned earlier, he has not taken any initiative at all to strengthen the hospital with staff. The questions raised in this report are therefore very specific. So I ask you directly if you are aware of this situation, on the one hand, and on the other hand what your own initiatives will be, in order to serve with sufficient staff, even within this extraordinary treaty created by the pandemic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you too, Mr. Meikopoulou. The Minister for Health will answer Mr Athanasios Plearis. Mr. Flouris, good evening, good week. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, there is indeed a particular pressure in the area you are talking about and, of course, you are, like Thessaly and northern Greece. Generally, there is a wider pressure with the outbreak of the pandemic, but especially the area of Thessaly is affected. For this particular hospital, which you mention, on 7-9-2021 as many places as we were asked for in this hospital and was a position of curator II Pathology, a Cardiology, two Biopathology, one Orila and one Curator II Surgery. The decision of the commander of the 5th RCF on 17-11-2021, the other day, due to the pressure from the pandemic, approved the cooperation with five private doctors who are already in place and therefore directly managed to deal with the pandemic with three pathologists and two pneumonologists with a two-month issue. In fact, it was the invitation that the Ministry had made before ordering services to find private doctors to serve it. At the same time, it has also served with eleven private doctors - six pathologists and five pneumonologists - a total of sixteen private doctors to meet the needs of a month. Apparently this is a temporary procedure to meet the needs of the hospital with private doctors. In fact, these positions came after your question. There was therefore a knowledge of the pressure in this hospital, while throughout this period, from 2020 to 2021, there were a total of twenty-nine permanent doctor positions. Unfortunately, only nineteen seats were covered. There was no willingness for the next and another sixteen subsidiary doctors were recruited, of which the fourteen subsidiary doctors were employed. Therefore, as a whole from 2020 to 2021, as many posts as requested by Volos Hospital, either by permanent recruitment that was announced or by subsidiary coverage, they were covered. At the outbreak of the pandemic in the last one and a half months that has occurred in the area of Thessaly, we have taken a series of actions including staffing with private doctors. And we think that these sixteen private doctors, of whom five are in the last few days, will be able to cover this pressure, which you will know respectively, because I know you are moving and interested in this particular situation, in which you are also conducting it, that it is a particular treaty of appalling pressure from Volos Hospital. As you know, Thessaly is indeed one of the areas where private structures have shown an interest in helping to deal with the pandemic and, in fact, we have secured three hundred seventy beds from the private sector mainly in Larissa and Volos, of which two hundred fifty are for COVID cases together with all staff. And therefore, to deal with this particular pandemic, an attempt has been made to serve the hospital. A total of those posts needed in the hospital have been published and all of them have been covered, whether with permanent or subsidiary doctors, plus the above increase with the individuals I have just mentioned.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Meikopoulou, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u6	Thank you again, Mr President. Minister, I will not disagree with you by quoting numbers with one difference, which is, in my opinion, qualitative and vital: The figures you mentioned do not reflect the reality of daily life in the hospital, because of all these numbers you gave me, few are those currently serving in the first line sections, 1, 2 Pathological, clinical COVID and emergency section. It is also very important that the specialities they have undertaken, because when we ask for pulmonary specialists, in order to cope with the degrade situation of CIVID cases, you cannot consider a surgeon as a doctor, who will help on-call in order to cope with the many COVID cases. Secondly - and I hope that we will agree on this - I think that our great bet should have been the resilience of the National Health System and this, Mr Minister, is basically dependent on human resistance, which also collapses from the decompression of public hospitals with the involvement of primary health care, with the involvement of private clinics, with the involvement of military hospitals in the hospitalisation of the CIVID incidents. Therefore, the reliable care of patients with a coronary should have been combined with the other health needs of the citizens. This bet today, Minister, has been lost and I think that today the ESS is more disorganised, more tired, more subordinated and with trends in the departure of medical personnel from the pandemic. All the data I quote have contributed cumulatively to the formation of this picture for Achilopoulos Hospital that I described you. Three key elements I will mention: Firstly, as in the previous pandemic wave, there has been a poor design regarding the hospital. The lessons of the pandemic from the previous pandemic waves were not used to serve and organize the Hospital of Volos so that we do not have today's picture. Secondly, there was absolutely no planning for primary care so that primary structures could be actively involved in the first care of patients with COVID. And thirdly, the subsecution, Mr Minister, remains exactly the same, but, as I have said, the sections, which have cases of COVID, i.e. in TL, pathological and clinical COVID. And so while the fourth wave has been spreading to Magnesia since October with CIVID nurses at three Volos Hospital clinics, only when the responsible physician of CIVID clinics sent and sent a definitive risk signal for the state of hospitals, only then seemed to wake up the Ministry of Health and sent the Deputy Minister to simply find out the critical situation despite the fact, Minister, that the world of Magnesia, together with the health bodies and I personally with my successive questions, mostly - and I am sorry for that - we were hitting you - by the bell that the situation is happening again weeks ago for Volos Hospital, again for another pandemic wave. Any initiatives, therefore, Mr Ploiros, and any aid should have come far earlier. You had all the time, you had all the accumulated experience to design the only secondary health structure of Magnesia correctly, so that it did not have this image today and that it has not been converted into a unit of disease. Today, CIVID's doctors are five. But, practically - what I told you earlier - in fact, one in 100 COVID patients is actually on the lookout. So since you have allowed this vital period to pass that I described you, only after the head doctor of the COVID units protested, what did you do? Just ten days ago, a pneumonologist from Volos Health Center came to Achilles Hospital, a general doctor for the Emergency Department from Argalaster Health Center. Only two doctors, then, came from two public structures to assist in the hospital work. Let us now mention at this point and what you said that since last Thursday, and at the initiative of the Medical Association of Magnesia, contracts have been signed for six pathologists and five pneumonologists in private Magnesia doctors to offer help. Today, it is being discussed how they will be distributed to take part in the on-calls from December, as they will not be doing breakfast hours. This offer, Minister, is both legitimate and correct as an initiative by the Medical Association of Magnesia. However, as these people are not hospital doctors, they will reasonably take a time to adapt to the way the hospital is working and, indeed, to this demanding health condition in which we have entered. That is why I told you that at the meeting on 27 October, the medical staff at the hospital together, the decision was taken was unanimous. And what was it about? It was a direct need to assist hospitals from other hospitals in the health region, which do not present the same urgent picture. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What did you answer? In practice, you responded with two doctors from public structures and private doctors who will only take time to adapt. And all this was ten days after the meeting I described. In other words, with a meeting which took place in October and a decision taken ten days later, you served with two doctors and individuals. You did things that should have been done a year ago. This is the tragic reality. They may have been recruited, Mr. Plori, so far, but not first-line specialists. As I mentioned in the protology, yes, patients came to the hospital, but practically they have no service, as many of them are missing on leave. What should he have done, Minister, the Ministry of Health and the Fifth Health Region at this difficult time? Now we've reached the fourth pandemic wave. It requires an immediate notice of all permanent posts of hospital pathologists, but also of the emergency department. Finally, move on to the permanentisation and mobilisation of all the auxiliary staff of hospitals. To finance the needs of the state budget, and not to see this shameful spectacle every time in Magnesia, that is to say, to strengthen the hospital through donations, from businesses, and to seize the Members of the Co-population for who has obtained the largest donation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u7	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u8	To begin talks and contacts with the hospital's irreversible personnel at last. See good practices in other hospitals in other European countries. It is also important to create a framework of indirect compulsoryity and therefore the persuasiveness of these people so that they can be persuaded to be vaccinated and another thing is punishment. Another thing is the social cruelty of dismissal. I am not saying all of this - I am sorry, Mr President - to close down the supply and work of doctors at Volos Hospital. I say this, Mr Ploris, because I have raised reports from people, who slowly starts and is afraid and does not trust the only secondary structure in Magnesia. They're afraid to go to the hospital. We are therefore making this criticism so that these vital issues can be raised and that we can finally take care of the active, permanent solutions, Mr Ploiros. That's what we're talking about. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. But when you talk from the seat, with a mask. I didn't want to interrupt you because you took a lot of time today! Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u10	Many issues have been raised and I really want to answer them because they are part of a wider context. First of all, with regard to positions and what has happened all this time, I would like to say that in total there are eighty-four more people than there were in 2021, twelve permanent staff and seventy-two auxiliary staff. The sixteen people I mentioned are added to them, the eleven individuals and five of the previous days. Indeed this was done in collaboration with the Ministry and the medical clubs, because we invited the medical clubs and indeed the medical clubs, more and less, responded. In Thessaloniki we had over 40 people in contracts, but also in Thessaly. It is precisely because the ordering of services is never a choice that seems to be the first option, we wanted to exhaust the possibility of cooperation. Indeed, these are not hospitals and we know that these people, who are doctors, who are basically contracted with the EEAS and therefore have contact with the public structures, do not have the same possibility as other hospital doctors, when clinical experience is available, or the doctors who are in the ESS or in the private clinics, where they have an experience again. But you don't choose to order services from private clinics, because in private clinics you've made the deal to take the beds along with the staff. Therefore, the design developed was to support the ESS with more people, permanent and subsidiary. You raise the question of whether, as you say, they will be permanentized. We say that the notices will come out and on the basis of the notices there will be mobilisation, which will be constitutionally tolerated, so that they can claim the posts. However, ancillary services also provide services. This is another issue, namely how they will then join the system. However, they are currently in the system and provide services. A total of eighty-four people. Private doctors may also contribute in principle to alleviating the system. At the same time private structures in Thessaly showed willingness to respond, in cooperation with the Ministry at all times. It was so willing that we actually have two more hospitals in Thessaly for simple beds and mainly for CIVID beds. So it had become the design as mentioned. This design has had a specific world, which has entered structures either as permanent or as subsidiary staff. Private doctors who, in the face of the motives given and combined with the probability of requisition, were also able to make contracts. It is still open for the service task, and that is why we took an initial order in Thessaly and northern Greece, with about eighty-five to eighty-eight people. Depending on the needs, there may also be a further qualification of services. This is therefore the whole possibility of managing in conjunction with strengthening the public structure, staff and private structures. In fact, Thessaly is very pressed and the pleasant thing is that in the last week at least Thessaly shows that other regions are falling in the report of cases and gradually beginning to press. With regard to the transport you have said, Mr President - and you know that - the specialities which are necessary at the moment for the management of the pandemic are not limited to a certain structure. At the moment to operate ITH beds in northern Greece has been transferred personnel from Athens, but these specialties are specific. These specialties, unfortunately, do not exist in much of a free profession and in the private sector. It's not that we had the possibility of getting anesthetics from somewhere else or pneumonologists and we didn't. We have tried to cover this with the presence of individuals, where they exist, and with the continued support. However, I can assure you that, with the problems that exist and with the pressure of the system, both in Larissa, which is close to Volos and Volos, the National Health System is being held up and can respond to this wave of pandemic, with assistance from private structures, which have actually entered the system of operation of the National Health System.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Minister. Have a good time, Mr. Meikopoulou. We move to the second with number 190/15-11-2021, a topical question for the second question by the Member of the Ilias Movement of Change Mr.Michalis Katrin to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "An unanswered questions about the closure of the ITH of the General Tower into the pandemic." Mr. Catarini, good evening, good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, a week ago, when I tabled the question, the totalitarian society along with the worsening of pandemic and health in general, watched a drama that progressed into Elias. And I am referring to the fact that, in the midst of the pandemic, with the number of seamless people on a daily basis, the commander of the 6th Health Region Mr Carvelis decided to move one of the two doctors into the intensive care unit of the Tower Hospital in Patras, with the result - I say again, in the midst of the pandemic - that the intensive care unit of the Tower Hospital would be at risk of being closed down. It was preceded by the resignation of two permanent doctors of the unit, who resigned to hospitals in Athens, with practically the clinic, which has six beds, unable to function. You understand how important this is in a period of battle with the pandemic. The reaction of both institutions and residents to this possibility, namely, that Elijah should be left for the first time without an intensive treatment unit after many years, but also that of the country's health system being deprived of six valuable beds, led Mr Carvelis to revocation - I am not talking about you, it is Mr Carvelis who kicked out the doctor from the Tower and led to the closure of the clinic - and, through internal movement from the hospital, with a cardiologist and an anaesthetic who went to the ICU to avoid shutdown, but you understand that they are at the same time missing from the hospital's potential and create an equivalent vacancy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end, Mr President, in half a minute - as well as the intensive care units and clinics, especially the regional hospitals within the pandemic, we in the Ilias Prefecture, but also in other areas, can testify that this has not happened, because no incentive has been given to attract doctors, but no incentive to stay, so that they do not give up to the hospitals of the large urban centres. Two questions, then: How, in addition to the temporary solution to the internal movement, do you intend to ensure the operation of the intensive care unit of the General Tower Hospital, so that it does not jeopardise the closure of a life-threatening decision again? Secondly, what motives you will give to attract doctors to both the intensive treatment units of regional hospitals and other clinics, which you know very well that they are currently suffering from medical personnel. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr Katrin. The question will be answered by the Minister for Health, Mr Thanos Plearis. Here you go, Mr. Pleari, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u14	Mr President, when you tabled your question at the time, there was also a number of articles. And I have to tell you that, on the occasion of your question at that time, I have also been in direct contact with Mr Carvelis, with the Director of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, so that I can be fully informed about the matter. Because I, too, had a very big impression that there was an issue of operation. I was also assured that there was no question of this ICU not functioning. At that time, because there was particular pressure from the COVID incidents that were in Patras, a doctor was asked for a mere week to be transferred in combination with that at that time in the Tower there was no pressure on the meth beds. Obviously the design from the outset was not to malfunction. I certainly understand your anxiety as well as the anguish of local society. And that's why, from here on, the Stepma is clear that there's no question of the ITH beds not functioning at the Tower Hospital. The movement concerned a certain period of time. In the communication that we had, I was assured by the commander and indeed by the internal movements that you have mentioned in order to operate. Now and in your capacity not only as a Member but also as a doctor, you realise that all the notices of the specific positions in the MIT beds have been made. It is stated that the last notice made in 2021 was atrocious, both of whom were curator A's positions in the ICM and one of them being curator B's post. But in all the 7-9-2021 that has been given a new notice and for a DMV director with a two-seat curator A and two positions of caretaker B, that is, those who have just requested the hospital, we are currently in the process pending on the relevant crisis board and we hope that at least some of these positions can be covered. You know better than me that unfortunately these positions at this time are not positions that we have in many places in any part of the National Health System in order to be able to cover only from internal movements, especially because there have been the departures you have mentioned. But despite all the pressure, I can assure you that in the part of Patras, which relates to the function it has and the CIVID clinics, all the CIVID beds will work smoothly in the Tower as well. And more generally, there is no case throughout the country with any pressure, and if there are movements made by Athens at the moment - which has still not been pressed to the extent that other regions such as Thessaly and northern Greece are pressed, but your area is now pressing with the increase of COVID incidents - either by moving around, either through the reinforcement that exists either with the presence of private doctors, - not in the anaesthetics because there are no private doctors out there who are outside the system in order to be able to cover all the beds of the ITH. It was reasonable to ask you about the extent it took, and I assure you that there will be no question of operating in the specific beds of the Tower.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u15	Mr Katrinis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u16	Minister, I believe that if you were aware of the intention of the commander of the 6th Health Region to move - I do not know if it was for a week or another time - I am sure you would have prevented it from happening. As I am sure if the commander of the Tower Hospital, who happens to be a former director of the intensive care unit, would certainly not have consented or at least not say that with a doctor he can operate a whole clinical ICU. This is nowhere, Minister. There is no clinical ICU that works only with a physician permanent staff and supplements with some doctors who need to go and move to the ICUs to work the clinic but do not have the necessary experience. So you understand that this'solution' that has been given is not a solution. Is this a temporary solution from the inside that leads? It leads to the hospital's not closing and running. I will give you an example. The cardiologist of the Amalada Hospital comes to the Tower to do on-calls to fill the vacancy of the cardiologist of the tower clinic who went to the intensive care unit. So you understand that we're closing a gap and opening another one and so on. So here we have to see what will happen and what the government will do about the permanent staffing of clinics, as I think it is a problem of regional hospitals. You said it yourself, and it is true that all the notices made in 2021 with the exception of the latter were fruitless and barren in the hospitals of Elias. And that is something that concerns us very much. But why is that? We need to see why this is happening. First of all, there is a lack of wage incentives for staffing the district hospitals not only of Elias but also of other regional hospitals. And here is a good precedent. There is the EUR 400 special allowance for anaesthetics in July and was voted in Parliament. It would therefore be advisable to provide for a special allowance for permanent placement of ERC doctors in regional hospitals, especially in those in which the promotions continue to be fruitless. And there is also a need to adjust the payroll so that we have incentives to attract scientific staff from outside Greece who you understand that for EUR 900 it will not leave the countries of Central Europe and the excellent working conditions to come in the middle of a pandemic with these rewards to serve the ESS. And because I do not believe that you agree that the solution to the problem is, for example, the half-wage wage announced today by the Prime Minister, there needs to be a brave debate, and this should be a comprehensive debate on the adjustment of the wages of HSH doctors if we really want a possible national health system for the protection of our citizens. And you have to tell us if you're willing to open it. It is also necessary to set a stimulus so that doctors who go to hospitals in the province, such as Elias, - as happened to us who two of the four left - had a penalty when they resign to be appointed to Athens. You know very well that right now and with the auxiliary medical staff there is a huge disequilibrium. The hospitals of Attica have been overstood mainly and less in Thessaloniki and the regional hospitals have been weakened. So this cannot go on. And you should probably give some encouragement to this staff who are currently in Lefkanos to serve the regional hospitals, because that is the only way to ensure proper operation. Otherwise, whatever notices come from here and beyond the Department of Health will be fruitless. Regional hospitals, such as Pyrgos, Amaliada and Krestena, will not have permanent medical staff, doctors will resign and the inhabitants of Elias in this particular case will be deprived of adequate health services. The request - you know - is to go to the 1st zone, for it is precisely because it has too many notices that are barren. Here and now, then, you should see a generous package of measures along with the use of general doctors, who should have substantial responsibilities but also a wage incentive to participate in the operation of hospital clinics, particularly in on-calls, precisely so that we do not have these movements from county to hospital, and in fact to cover gaps but do not have a stable and reliable health system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Catherine. The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u18	Mr Katrin, you really raise this issue in a broader dimension and it is a debate that needs to be made clear, which is about staffing as a whole. And now think that we are talking about the Tower, which, anyway, is an urban area. Imagine what is going on respectively - you know - in other areas that are even more remote and the problems that exist. It is true that what you have said is true. What about the announcements that were coming out? In fact, the major hospitals in Athens and Thessaloniki were running and left this staff. We are in the process of preparing a framework of incentives and counter-incentives to doctors. I mean, I tell you, for example, that this is being processed by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Gaga. When one takes a position, this position should remain and cannot participate in other notices for a period of time, so that it actually stays in this position and that this phenomenon is not observed as soon as a subsequent notice is made. Obviously, at the level of incentives, we should also be guided by conditions that give better pay in any way to the people involved, although you also know that especially in areas such as Elias, but in other areas, even when local society, whether the municipalities or the regions, entered very actively by paying even rents, there was still no willingness to see. Because the reality is that we are not at the stage of the 1990s and the 2000s, where there was a multitude of doctors and a desire to join the National Health System. It is now apparent from the announcements that exempting certain hospitals and basically certain cities, where demand in too many other cities is actually present, there is no willingness. And that is not just a matter of the last two years. I have been looking at the notices that have emerged since 2015, as well as all the notices that are constantly coming out, and I have found that they are declared barren at the same points. There has also been a request from the health region that it should go to the A scale, since all notices other than the latter, as you quite rightly said, had been declared barren. So we have to open up a whole question of doctors' motives in regional hospitals. Unfortunately, this problem is much more intense at the moment, because in the National Health System alongside this fourth wave, because social and economic life is basically working and it is not as it was last year, we have the pressure that existed in the National Health System every year and the pandemic arm is added, which makes health workers even more difficult. What the Prime Minister has said today is not about the framework of incentives, but about the framework of the reward. The particular world that was there should have a reward on the basis of the possibilities available and thus receive this allowance, this wage. It doesn't have any motive to be in the system, but a reasonable reward. In order for the state to show and act as a participant, it will open a conversation. You may know that the Committee on Social Affairs will be opening this debate tomorrow in conjunction with the Committee of the Regions so that we can hear from all Members what the incentives are, and then we will immediately introduce these incentives or the counter-motors to leave these regions. There are also thoughts about this: by registering medical clubs, in order to serve the region, there should also be a minimum provision of service to the public system. We believe that cooperation with private doctors is something that should be extended, especially in the areas where private structures exist. There should be opportunities not only now temporarily, but later, private doctors with some contract of employment can also provide services to the public system, because we no longer have the world we have in the past decades, so that we can serve these specific areas. With regard to the local issue you are saying, yes, I will tell you - because I like to speak with absolute honesty - that it is not a solution to the moves you are saying. This is a temporary solution, at times of very high intensity, so that all the six tower beds and all the other beds can function. It is therefore a temporary solution, and we will obviously have to open up this debate, and we will have to open it, with concrete proposals that will be made, so that we can see the whole thing. And there I believe that there will be a field of common perceptions and common proposals so that there can be genuine incentives or counter-incentives for leaving, so that those who find themselves in the National Health System and are rewarded, but also to find solutions to how in the context of the overall operation of doctors in the territory, the hospitals of the National Health System can be strengthened at a time when, especially in certain specialities, we do not have the number of posts that we had in other years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much. Have a good time to both colleagues! And now we move to the third with number 193/15-11-2021 a top-level question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "The crime of Ellis. in cases of racial and domestic violence.’ Mr Arseni, good evening, and good week! You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, the recent gypsy in Ierapetra was the thirteenth for this year and the hundred and twenty-fifth for the last six years. At the same time, the European Institute of Gender ranks Greece once again in the worst position, as regards the position of women in society. But what's the particular thing we're going to talk about here? Three recent feminine murders, the one in Ierapetra, Rethymnon, but previously, in Daphne. It's late October, August and July. In all three cases we have a complaint that these women had gone in time, directly, themselves or their relatives, to denounce their domestic violence. The police didn't react, and the result was the feminine. So we have a description of the case of Ierapetra by a friend of the lost woman. As her friend said, she had been addressed to the police many times, both Nectaria and other faces, but no one paid attention. Also, Ms. Maliotakis, the lady who denounces it, says she was urged to take insurance measures against her ex-husband so as not to get close to her. Nektaria, however, had neither the money nor the courage nor the knowledge to engage in judicial adventures. The police, Minister, refuses that Nectaria went and filed a complaint. Obviously, there is no officially registered complaint, since the woman went and no one recorded it. Is it possible to report physical violence and a threat of murder and not to record this complaint? The very same story we have in Daphne, but also in Rethymnon, where they had denounced threats. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So I invite you to tell us how to stop this informal protection of women's narcotics from the police. I'm not saying that's the motive, but that's what's happening in practice. In practice, the police do not protect women victims of domestic violence when they go to denounce in this incident and eventually we see many of these women being victims of feliness. When is this gonna stop? What actions have you taken since then, and anyway, in these three cases, and in the case of Ierapetra, have they proceeded to ETS? Suffice the police's answer that she doesn't have an official complaint when the woman herself was there and the police just didn't record her complaint?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u21	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. The Minister of Citizen Protection will answer Mr. Panagiotis Theodorikos. Mr. Theodorikos, good evening, good week! You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u22	Good evening, Mr. President. Mr President, I thank you for the question that concerns a phenomenon which certainly requires attention, sensitivity and mobilisation of all of us, in cases of domestic violence and a series of crimes linked to this violence and which have certainly shocked public opinion. However, Mr Colleague, because the words are important, considering your question very carefully, do we have a pandemic of domestic violence? I have the opportunity to understand the logic of referring to your question - that is, overreacting draws interest in a debate - and I can understand it with this good intention. I believe, however, that we have a duty as National Representation not to blame our society. So, do we have a pandemic of domestic violence? No, Mr. Comrade. Do we, as one of the consequences of the real coronary pandemic that we have been facing over the last two years? Of course, yes! Have we done the wrong thing toward the phenomenon? Of course not! And I'm emphatic about that. We have developed within the framework of the mission of the Ministry of Civil Protection and the Hellenic Police an integrated strategy for the prevention and treatment of domestic violence. Our actions focus on three axes: prevention through the implementation of actions and initiatives to raise awareness of society, protection of victims of domestic violence - developing cooperation with all stakeholders, particularly in recent years, Mr. Colleagues, developing the cooperation of the Hellenic Police with local authorities - and investigation into the execution of criminal offences and collecting evidence of every crime, in order to refer all perpetrators to justice. There is, of course, a separate answer for each incident. I would also like to inform you, because this possibility has not yet been given, that the training and training of Greek police staff and its cooperation with the relevant bodies are ongoing. In particular, there has been a network of seventy-three departments to deal with domestic violence by the Greek Police, with a section dealing with the relevant issues at the Headquarters of EL.AS, with management offices in all fourteen regions, in the fifty eight counties of the country - that is, a total of seventy-three departments - and in addition with five police departments in Attica, Omonia, Piraeus, Peristeri, Agia Paraskevi, Alimos and the White Tower Police department in the Directorate of Thessaloniki. I also want to tell you that they have been trained in the relevant competences to provide these services with ninety ten police officers, with separate lessons about the relevant provisions of the Council of Europe to prevent and combat violence against women. Also, this October - completed two and a half weeks ago - another hundred and ninety-four policemen took part in educational activities to protect refugees and migrant women, in which unfortunately in many neighbourhoods, particularly in the Attica basin, there are cases of severe domestic violence. There is therefore an organised effort, which I very little time to tell you because of the time, but in order not to be considered to be evading the specific circumstances to which you have referred, I will tell you: As far as the two homicides of women in Rethymnon and Ierapetra are concerned, there has been an investigation and it has been found that no complaint or complaint has been filed by other persons, but also a complaint from the victims before these events. Therefore, there have been no conditions for anyone to be able to say that the police did not intervene in these cases. This is the picture provided by the relevant police services, the Rethymnon Security Directorate and the Lassithi Security Department respectively. With regard to the well-known case of Daphne, which took place on 30 July, there is an ongoing ETS in order to investigate fully the complaints and to account for the corresponding disciplinary responsibilities that will arise. Of course, for the same incident, I would like to tell you that, from 1 August of this year, by order of the Athens Prosecutors' Office of Home Affairs, a preliminary examination is being carried out, which is under way. In conclusion, I am obliged to recall that, due to the principle of secrecy governing this stage of the criminal proceedings, it is not permissible to disclose the information collected by the competent authorities conducting the investigation in any way. So, for the time being, I can only give details as soon as the investigation into the Daphne incident is completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Minister. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I cannot understand that you have given so much time to your answer as to whether we have a pandemic or an outbreak. Let us agree that we have a giant problem, which does not matter exactly if it is incomprehensible giant or simply very giant. Here we have thirteen women who have lost their lives, because being a woman continues to pose a risk to their own lives in our country. You spoke of the seventy-three agencies established by SYRIZA and you staffed them, but there is no such service in Ierapetra. There's no Hierapetra. It's in Agios Nikolaos. So, is the problem solved for these women who are lucky to have such a service next to them? You want to see what he denounces an officer working on this kind of service? The complaint is a year ago, but I'm afraid it hasn't changed much. "They operate the offices," says the Officer, "but their role is purely to keep statistical data. It takes even more work, autonomy, with specific staff, to be employed only with it. Right now, the people who work in the office are not in touch with the victims. So what is the reason why we founded them?" That's what the Officer asks himself. So, here we have a situation that's gone away. We have complaints that women who go to the police are denouncing malicious husbands or anyone in their environment and this complaint is not recorded or, when it is recorded, they are calling the criminal whether or not he confirms it and, if not, put it in the file. Also, when they get the complaint, as in the case of a woman who lost her life in Ierapetra, they are called "strengthen sue, make insurance". Do you want to see the result when they do insurance? Most women who died of a feminine murder had filed an insurance complaint. So, the police can't do it when she wants to be terribly demonstrative to her effectiveness and when she doesn't have to be. This cannot go on. These women need the protection of the police, and you need to do what is self-evidently necessary to have it, not tomorrow, but today. There needs to be a clear directive with sanctions for police officers who at any time reaches a victim and denounces a threat of physical violence, let alone murder, the complaint is not recorded. Surely you should send a message, which they obviously haven't received. Otherwise, we wouldn't have one incident after another.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much. Here, Mr. Theodorikos, you have three minutes for your dentistry as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u26	Honestly, my dear colleague, I am sad to have to repeat a general statement about your questions, which I have asked before, but you are obliging me to do so. Did you now say in your denture that the conclusion that you made is that being a woman in Greece is a danger? Now, are you serious about that? In this country, in the Hellenic Republic, do you think being a woman in our country is a danger? Being a Greek woman, being a woman in this country is an honor, sir, and the Greek women have the same rights in all areas with the Greeks. They have been citizens perfectly equal for decades in this country. I think it is neither politically interesting nor human pragmatic to try to imitate a colleague of the Officerial Representation - I will not mention his name, because he is not in the Chamber - who is rushing after every murder that is taking place in this country to denounce the Prime Minister and Minister for Civil Protection as responsible for any murder. Everything has a limit, let me. Everything has a limit! And I'm going back to the point. We all have to realize that. It is not the Greek police, the state institution that can deal with the case of domestic violence as a whole. One model I mentioned before in detail - because I do not have the time - to tackle the problem necessarily involves the active action of local government. Women in each region should be able to address the social services of the municipality, talk, help voluntary organisations for this purpose, record problems, also have interventionism, and these services of the municipalities, of self-government, social services to evaluate and prioritise their acute issues and inform the respective forces of the Greek Police, so that they can intervene in cases and phenomena where there is a threat to safety or - even worse - to the life of a woman or, in some cases, to a man. Because when one talks about domestic violence, I would like to tell you that, from the communications I have in the Attica basin, I have been in front of many phenomena which are statistically recorded and which concern both domestic violence between children and parents with both sides in the role of the perpetrator. The problem is much wider and much more acute. So we see that the Greek police are strengthening their cooperation with local government everywhere because they are part of the society itself and leave no threat unanswered. In conclusion, I would like to assure you, Mr Arsenis, that the Greek Police are working with a plan to provide security for all citizens, without discrimination and exceptions, at every corner of our country, with respect for democratic legitimacy and that will continue to do so. I'm the last person to tell you that everything is perfect, I'm the last person to tell you that there are no problems and weaknesses, I'm the last person to tell you that there are not too many distractions in the mission of Greek Police officials for this purpose. But don't forget at what time we're living: in a pandemic, where the Greek Police have been called and lifts the huge burden of the checks on the implementation of the laws on pandemic, with eight thousand policemen every day working for this purpose. I believe that its results are very important. Let them continue their work. They're in a mood, they're doing it with a full consciousness of their mission, and I think they're going to make it better all the time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u27	Be well, Minister. Thank you very much. Have a good day to both of you. We now go to the first 307/14-10-2021 question and request for Parliamentary B3's documents to be submitted to the Athens Coalition of the Radical Left Mr.Theanos Fotio to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "In threeteen legal procedures are disproportionately expensive, 12.1 million euros for one year, to be awarded to a company of operational advisers, the single call centre of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and its supervisors for the necessary permanent and continuous information to the citizens." Mrs. Fotio, good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u28	Good evening. Thank you, Mr President. Minister, a month ago, forty-five Members of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, we tabled this question now mentioned by the President. You did not reply to us and we are coming back because we believe that the case of the assignment of the telephone centre of the Ministry of Labour and of the four supervised bodies with 12.1 million is an example of kerosene smuggling public money into "loan", on the pretext of the coronary, which, as Alexis Tsipras denounced in the House, reached 5 billion in two years. Why am I saying that this case is a cannabis example? Because it expresses the typology repeated in all these assignments. It's the same typology. What do I mean? First step: Invoking the coronary is invoked, so that you do not go to a regular competition, but invite five companies, the known companies you often co-operate, to offer you offers within a minimum period of time - here, in this case, five days - for a project scandalously overestimated budget of 12.5 million. The second step: So it appears from all these five companies, it gives a minimum of 3% discount, so the project will cost 12.1 million. The market laughs at these discounts because it knows the process is set, 3% discount. Step three: Where are the money going? In this case, one third of the money, namely EUR 4 million, will go to public information, public public public public public public public public public public public information and research - does it remind you of anything, 'Pecha list'? - and 2.337.000 will go to two business advisers. Doesn't it look too much for two Golden Boys? With these two funds you exceed 50% of the project. And what's left? With the 5.800,000 doing the work. So the contract, Mr. Minister, you know well and you'll read it, I'm sure, ends in May 2022. So the first six months have passed and the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, has already answered a similar question from Mr Skourletis last Monday - so I know what you have answered and hopefully you will not repeat it - and she was focused on the APRC. That is why, Minister, I update my questions and say: First, where does the centre work and from whom was the training of seventy contractors, from whom were they paid? There's a response manual, so they can answer it right? And, secondly, as far as their contracts are concerned, for how many months are they paid, for how long a month? In May the contract expires. Will you then hire a hundred and seventy workers to the Ministry of Labour or, in your regular practice, will you extend this scandalous contract?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mrs. Fotio. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, good evening, good week. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President. That's all for you. Mrs Fotou, the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs has a very complex portfolio, which potentially concerns all citizens. The Ministry also supervises bodies directly related to the daily lives of the citizens, such as EVA, EICA, OPECA, OAED and other smaller entities. But despite the central role of the Ministry in the life of the citizens, there is also an unpleasant first, as the Ministry of Labour, together with its supervised bodies, holds its first place in complaints and complaints from citizens to the Citizen's Counselor. The creation of the single telephone centre and the single number of services comes to cover this very weakness. I will begin with where we were before the creation of the single number of services and why the Ministry's leadership was led to the decision to create the single call centre. The downloaded phones, the long waiting for a phone answer, the insured, the workers and pensioners to try to communicate without any responses and often forced to travel miles to serve by the services of the ELKA was a reality that citizens experienced every day. That was the prestigious situation. In terms of costs, I will deal in detail with my second-guessment, but I would like to point out at this point that in the previous system that I have just described there was a huge obscure cost, which was precisely these thousands of lost waiting hours for citizens, which are now being eliminated by the operation of the single number of services. Although this cost is not explicitly recorded anywhere, it is there and it is huge. It is also worth pointing out that the capacity of the old eFKA phone centre was only responding to eight hundred calls a day with an average waiting time of twenty minutes, while it was unable to answer 1/3 of calls, because it did not have enough staff in peak hours or because the citizens waited for a long time. And, of course, the pandemic and the increased needs it created also played its own role, as it was the catalytic factor that prompted us to act immediately and to proceed with the adoption of a single number of services capable of serving thousands of citizens every day, as it made even more urgent the need for a solution. Because of the restrictions on movements and the risk of spreading the virus, we had to act immediately. Like the electronic appointments that we have introduced to supervised bodies and the electronic services that we are constantly putting into operation, and this measure is moving towards limiting the movement and waiting to the branches of supervised bodies. In this respect, we should also add the government's strategic decision to modernise the services provided and speed up the service of citizens. The continuous modernisation of civil service procedures and the improvement of the quality of the services provided, both by the Ministry's central services and by the supervised bodies, is a daily bet for all of us in the Ministry of Labour. The creation of a single number of telephone services is therefore another step towards a better and more citizen-friendly state and, unlike what you are saying, it is a step completely legitimate step. The Government was initiated on the basis of the provisions of Articles 32 and 32A of Law 4412/2016 on Public Procurement, a Law of SYRIZA, and Article 38 of Law 4778/2021 and selected the procedure for direct awarding as the most beneficial and efficient, given the needs that existed. Indeed, the legality and transparency of this choice have been confirmed by a decision of the Court of Auditors. The other option was to proceed with an open competition, which would take more than a year and a half to complete. I think, Mrs Fotou, that you understand that the choices made on the one hand have been lawful and, on the other hand, meet the needs that exist and still exist. In more detail about the cost of a tender, I shall refer to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr Chacloglu. Mrs. Fotio, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u32	Mr. Undersecretary, I have drawn your attention to knowing Mr. Hatzidakis' answer. You reiterated Mr. Hatzidakis' answer to Mr. Skourletis. That's why I was more specialized. I did not claim that the procedure is not legal. You have invoked the coronary. It came from five companies within five days a company would give a 3% discount. The whole market laughs because they know it's set. That's what I claimed. As for consultants, 2.3 million, I told you that the whole market is laughing, because it is the so-called air. We paid for air. What I asked you very simply was what happened with this center, how it works. I will tell you something I imagine you will also tell me: Mr Tsakloglu, the 4 million for publicity and information in accordance with the contract - you know it - from October to May 2022, that is eight months. We didn't see it. But we saw last Sunday, a rapid announcement - I imagine because of today's time, I am not exaggerating - that you are suddenly responding as a ministry that you are going very well, that the information process is going extremely well and that the campaign has given up huge fruit, which started last week, after Mr Skourletis' time, that is to say, on 15. That's what your ministry's announcement says. I guess we live in another country. We did not see the information process anywhere, neither did we see a newspaper nor a paper, nor a television station, nor a radio or a media reported in this story at all, i.e. we did not see a communication campaign. We are now almost certain that we are in the face of a new phenomena of Petsa. And I'm telling you, because we're gonna watch it now, one by one. That's why I'm asking you, Minister. And since you're going to give me a detailed presentation now, tell me which newspapers, radio stations, television stations and site were given 4 million and on what criteria. You may not know that. Let's go to the 5.6 million you're giving for education and work of the seventy people operating the call center. Let's explain to everyone what the call center is. The call center “1555” operates since September. But how? Minister Hatzidakis answered last Monday. He said that the company's staff simply promotes complaints and questions to the relevant officials of the Ministry of Labour and the four supervised bodies. In other words, it has a back office, which is the employees and they were giving the answers. You know very well that questions are complex. Right now you have four hundred thousand outstanding pensions. Questions are complex and need specific answers. Only employees can give them these. I have not heard whether you have manuals, that is, if you have a book of directives on the basis of which these workers are responding. But the citizens are denounced that the centre responds to them: 'We will answer you in the future'. I am not saying that they are not answering them, but they are told that they will respond in the future, because they have to pass on the questions to the services, that the services should answer them. In other words, we paid 5.6 million for education and work of a hundred and seventy people who do not have - unless you assure me that they have - response manuals. We will, of course, visit the call center. It is natural that the questions concerning the Ministry, which are very complex, should be answered by officials. So I ask you: how many of these 5.6 million were given for education and to whom? Who trained them? Who's gonna take that money or get it? Also, how much do you pay for wages of one hundred seventy contract workers? What contracts has everyone signed for and for how many months? Why, Minister? You know that well. The bill's not coming out. With this overcompensated budget, you could get at least twice as many people as possible, well-paid, university education, I would tell you, not even secondary, and you would help the subordinated bodies. I believe that the smuggling of public money consists of it, that you give 12.1 million over a year, for something that it cannot work in May. Then you will either be extending the contract or you will be forced to hire the hundreds of seventy who you have not hired today. Tell me at least what you're going to do in May. I think I am clear in my questions and I expect clear answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u33	Once I needed your time, Mrs. Fotio, and you didn't get too far! Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u34	I must admit that some of the things Mrs Fotio said because of the mask may not be well heard. I'd like to make a clarification position on the first part of her position. The procedure was not legitimate, it was legal. There's a big difference between the two. The second thing you're asking me about in-depth expenses, I'll tell you everything's uploading on the Internet. There's nothing left of it. I now come to my reply to the specific questions asked by Mrs Fotou. With regard to the costs of the single call centre, the final amount is the result of systematic consultations between the Ministry of Labour's Directorates of Finance and Supplies, the supervising bodies and the consultancy companies that have the know-how to carry out such a complex work and no political intervention has been. At this point I have to say that we invited the five largest companies active in Greece, the "DELOITTE", the "PWC", the "GRANT THORNTON", the "KPMG" and the "E & Y", precisely to ensure transparency, but also to minimise the possibility of our attempt to fail. The companies selected are the largest, with a view to the high quality of the result. We addressed the leading companies in the area, which have credibility, but also experience in large-scale projects, complex, high degree of difficulty and top clienteles. The companies at first were hesitant. The reason was that the challenge of serving so many citizens on such complex issues was great, and, unlike you said, the cost was really at its limit. I'll give you an example in a moment. Let me clarify that a large proportion of the costs relate to the costs of the call center workers in the single number of services. The cost exceeds EUR 4.8 million. This is three hundred and twenty-six employees working with average wages and EUR 1,082 a month on a monthly basis for fourteen months a year. This costs are not calculated for the costs of training, operating spaces, bonuses for the achievement of objectives and so on. All this money does not go to companies implementing the project, but to workers, to the state, in the form of taxes and contributions, and, of course, to the real economy. The comparison measure that I wanted to give you is the call center of PPC, which was commissioned by an open tender for two years at a cost of EUR 15 million, that is seven and a half million a year. But this call center has a much smaller potential audience than the "1555" and it is not called upon to serve such complex cases that require continuous retraining of staff. With regard to the operation of the call centers which are currently operating in the Vineyards, Moschato and Nice, because you put it in your question, after completion of the project and the end of the contract, which lasts until the end of May 2022, the Ministry has already launched preparations for a new open international competition with a three-year duration and a budget level that will be announced in the next period. The work that has been done in the previous period, the infrastructure and tools that have been created, the education and experience gained help us better know the real future needs of the project and the challenges that we have to face in order to proceed to an integrated tender that covers them over time. The new open international competition will be opened by the end of 2021 on the basis of the existing design. In conclusion, it becomes clear that we are talking about a complex and multi-level project, with important demands not only on human resources and on technological and telecommunications equipment, but also on administration, monitoring, quality control, training and adaptation of procedures. After all, '1555' is not a simple call centre, as you have suggested, but a modern operational management and monitoring centre for citizens' requests for all the services and supervised agencies of the Ministry. That is why he meets the acceptance of the citizens, as shown by the above four hundred thirty thousand calls that he accepted the 100 days of his pilot operation. 97% of them responded. In response to 85% of the requests, it was immediately resolved by those who received the question. What you referred to is the remaining 15% and from this 15% almost 13% was referred back and answered by the special support groups and it is a 2% that was actually more complex and answered in a second year. Obviously, the functioning of the mechanism is constantly improving, taking advantage of the daily experience of serving citizens. Our goal is for 1555 to become part of the everyday life and the basic communication channel for citizens' insurance, pensions, employment, welfare and other related issues. But for the first time citizens find a direct response to their demands 24 hours a day, seven days a week, and absolutely free of charge. We respond to all calls immediately without delay. The citizens' demands are all recorded and we now have full knowledge of what the issues that concern citizens are. Complex requests that are not resolved on the front line are resolved and charged to specific and specialised employees of our services who communicate with the citizens in a reasonable time and either resolve the issue or inform them of the time required to resolve their case. All this is confirmed by the citizens themselves. In a survey carried out in August to citizens who had used in 1555 and indeed, in their complex cases, the eight out of ten declared that they were quite or very satisfied with their function, but also with the answers they received. In conclusion, I would like to stress that we could not present this new modern service mechanism today if we had not cooperated with hundreds of officials from the Ministry, the supervising agencies and the companies that took over the project. This is a titanium project that has been able to carry out within a very short period of time and really for their efforts and the results of their work, I would like to thank them personally. The bet from now on is 1555 to become part of our everyday life. We owe it as a state and as a public administration to the citizens, and it is the least we can do as a return to the patience that they have shown over the years. The aim is for the experiences of extremism, anger and indignation to give their place to the quality, reliable and European level of service that will create from now on confidence and optimism for the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much. Have a good day to both of you. The first, with number 172-12-11-2021, topical question by the Member of Parliament's Preveza Coalition, Mr. Konstantinos Barkas, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "An unjustified delay in repairing the Municipal Swimmings of Preveza" will not be discussed after consultation. Also, the second question under number 178/14-11-2021 of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolocarnania of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulou, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Direct payment of aid to the producers of Aetolocarnania" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the Member. Here we will be interrupting for one, two minutes, because the next question is to be answered by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Simeon Kedicoglou, who is in the Senate Hall and speaks to the Committee on Production and Trade. It ends any minute, Mr. Haritou, and it's coming down. On this occasion, we wish the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Lebanon, who is in bed at his house. Quick, let's see him with us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We move on to the third with No 175/12-11-2021 topical question of the second question by MP Rodopi of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Demetrius (Takis) Charitou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Will you resume the procedures for the construction of the Ismou irrigation dam in the Rhodope IP?'. Mr. Haritou, good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wish, too, good recovery to the Minister. It would be here today to answer the question. Undersecretary, the construction of the Opsiotto dam at Ismos Rhodopes is a vital project for the rural world and the local economy, as it will ensure irrigation in more than two hundred thousand acres in the wider area, when today irrigation is done by overflowing water from about five thousand deep drillings, resulting in the recreation of fertile soils and a direct risk of desertification of the Thracian camp. Only the second study carried out on the Jasmou dam unanimously approved by the regional council in 2014 cost the Greek public almost EUR 10 million. And yet, despite the encouragement by the Ministry of the Environment in mid-2016, to find an acceptable solution to the objection on the study, mainly expressed by the management of Lake Vistonidas, despite the fact that the reasons for the objection have been fully answered by the project scholars, your Ministry, for almost two and a half years, has not proceeded with the reassessment and finalization of the study, so that the project can be integrated into the Recovery Fund, so that a flagship project can be carried out for the region. While you know that it is a project directly linked to the objectives for the green transition, set by the Recovery Fund itself, you have excluded the work of the Habitat dam from the irrigating infrastructure projects for agriculture, which you recently announced in the presence of the Prime Minister himself. You have even given priority to other projects, on the basis of criteria for the elaboration of your party friends. I want you to know, Mr Secretary-General, that this is the only infrastructure project they have proposed in the inter-party committee on Thrace, and that there are a number of demands for producers, social actors and self-government in Rhodope. It is, I would say, the lid on the credibility and prestige of the Intergroup itself. I would therefore ask you whether you will proceed with the finalisation of the study of the Kosmatos dam in Jasmos, and whether it is your intention to include this work in the Recovery Fund in order to implement it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr Haritou. The Minister for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. Simos Kedicoglou. Mr. Kedicoglou, you have three minutes for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, let's clarify something. The presentation of the irrigation projects to which you referred concerned concerned the first phase. Two more phases will follow. It was not all the irrigation projects to be carried out in the next programming period. Now, Mr Mitsotakis, you are well aware that regional development is in the priorities of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. But particularly Thrace and its development have one more meaning, for self-evident reasons. This is why the Intergroup on Thrace was also set up, in order, far from party identities and purposes, to draw up a national strategy for the region. You have rightly referred to your question and developed in your protology the great importance of the Jasmou dam if it is implemented. This is a project that will facilitate the irrigation of two hundred thousand acres, by exploiting surface water, by reducing the use of groundwater extraction. So you are right to ask for his inclusion in the Recovery Fund. But here, on the occasion of the debate that the Minister for Rural Development had with the agricultural director in your party, Mr Arachovitis, I would like to ask a question to understand the position of SYRIZA. The Head of SYRIZA, Mr. Arachovitis, instructed the Government both in the responsible Committee on Production and Trade, where the bill of the Ministry for Stadium Facilities is being discussed, as well as in the relevant notices, that, with the "HYDOR 2.0", which includes twenty-foot-on-track works in the first phase that will be carried out by the PPP method, with which the map of the Greek region is literally reshaped over the next few years, Mr. Arachovitis said that we are supposedly privatising the water against Greek farmers. You are now coming and asking me if the work of the Jasmou dam is to be incorporated into the Recovery Fund and therefore, in essence, whether it will be incorporated into the "HYDOR 2.0" programme. So I ask, and I ask you, whether or not SYRIZA officially wishes to implement these major flagship projects, which will lead to the better use of water, for the benefit of the environment, which will lead to an increase in the income of our producers and, above all, to the projects which will not be burdened by even one euro. Ladies and gentlemen, in view of the enormous importance of the project for the region and in the context of its practical support for Thrace and for which I will speak more specifically in my denture, it is geared towards the integration of the Jasmou dam into the programme. In order to understand the project’s sizes, construction costs amount to EUR 223 million, while total costs, with operation and maintenance, amount to EUR 557 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Haritou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary, I heard you say nice words about Thrace, and at the end you said that there was a direction for the integration of the project. I'm afraid it's an escape. There is no clear commitment, Mr. Undersecretary. Yes, but it is. And that is the great concern, Mr Secretary, because while you had all your time to mature, to finalise the work, so that it is ready for accession, unfortunately you did not do anything or do very little. Although I have repeatedly been on my side, since you have opened a matter of intergrouping with the predecessor Minister Voridis, the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Pylakakis, who has been responsible for the Fund, despite the fact that my language has spoken to me to ask for this project to be integrated over a year and a half into the funds of the Fund, you have not taken a step. You are still at the forefront of it, and you say it in a way, talking about the projects you have recently announced, which should pay more attention to talking about them. Because, Mr Secretary-General, great plans are fine, fine words are the big words, 200 million all - all the resources from the Recovery Fund for irrigation projects. And that's the great concern for the Jasmu dam. 200 million is all - everything. For the 1.6 billion you're telling us, you have to tell us if you're joining them and the 450 million committed by the previous government of thirty projects, which you've frozen them. I am saying this, Mr Secretary-General, because I have heard you, while you have left the work in the air, and while you have not included it in the fund, on the other hand you have asked me the rhetorical question whether we agree to proceed with the projects through PPP, i.e. with private partnerships. Isn't that what you put in it? What are we on, Minister? Here's the play. It's on the air. To tell you otherwise, it reminds me of what they say "Even we have not seen him, Yannis we have baptized him". That's what you're telling me, Mr. Undersecretary. So I say to you directly, to end this with the PPPs: obviously the individuals who join and want to join the construction of the works do not do so for their dad's soul. You said that the farmers would not pay. I ask a question about what will happen in the future. But you said about the fact that individuals will be paid by the state budget for twenty-five years, namely by taxpayers. Nice work, Mr. Undersecretary, very good work. Who would not want to have access to the funds of the fund, to have its money secured and to have profits guaranteed for health - not to say - the taxpayers? And that's what you call business? This is State-owned entrepreneurship. Is that what we're talking about? So I tell you very clearly that the project is vital to the region. You have to give me an answer not to me, Mr Secretary, but to the citizens, to the rural world, to local actors, who are concerned and think that this work must be integrated. It is the only project whose waters, Mr. Undersecretary, are from the Greek territory. Do you understand what that means? It'll be two hundred thousand acres, just like you said. Other projects in the neighbouring area of the same budget level as you mention, that will irrigate fifty-five thousand acres, incorporate them. Elegantly I told you in my introductory speech that your criteria are to publish to party friends. Finally, Minister, I sincerely want you to give me a clear answer if it is your intention to incorporate the project into the Recovery Fund so that it can be implemented. That is the question that all the citizens of Rhodope are asking today. If it is not on your priorities, I sincerely tell you that it is so mature that another progressive government is responsible for looking for resources, for looking for other financial instruments, so that this project can be implemented, because it is a vital project for the rural world and also for the local economy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much. Here, Mr Kedicoglou, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u43	You did not give me a reply, however, whether you are in favour or against the PPPs. I want to make it clear to you a few things. First of all, I told you that the government is gearing towards the implementation of the project. Definitive decisions will be announced shortly. Let me explain a few things about PPPs, because something has probably not been understood. I told you that the farmers will not pay and the farmers will not pay. They won't pay the water with which their fields will be irrigated. What does PPP mean? It is the partnership with the private sector, which is paid over twenty-five years. This provides a flexibility for the state to be able to lever the money of the Recovery Fund to build, to proceed with multiplier projects than the Recovery Fund. I believe that this is an objective that the Greeks want. And let me make it clear to you: Co-financed by the Recovery Fund and by the programme "Greece 2.0". They are implemented as non-reimbursable PPP projects, that is, what I told you. The private entity shall be repaid by the Public Investment Programme for twenty-five years. Clearly, there is no element of commercial exploitation. It is clear that there will be no additional burden on farmers. As far as Rhodope is concerned, the desire, the government's desire to support Thrace, has emerged energetically and especially the Rhodope Region. I'll just mention a few numbers to see. Through the financial tools for COVID and de minimis, the Rhodope farmers have received 3,336 000 euros. At the same time, with repayable advances of three thousand two hundred and twenty-seven producers they received almost 6 million euros. In other words, they have already been disbursed near EUR 9.5 million to the Rodopi producers. Furthermore, as recently announced by the Ministry of Rural Development, there has been agreement with the Ministry of Finance - and indeed the request has been sent for approval to the European Commission - for exceptional aid due to COVID and tobacco growers throughout the territory of EUR 11.3 million, namely EUR 90 per acre. And since Rhodope has the pleasure and honor of having 40% of the tobacco areas, it corresponds to Rhodope with an amount of over 4.5 million euros. In other words, the Rodopi producers have already received almost EUR 14 million in total. Also, by the New Farmers programme, whose announcement is running, they have been allocated to the East Macedonia and Thrace region of EUR 35 million, 10 million more than in the previous call. I want you to understand that it is our priority to support the primary sector. It's the foundation of our economy, it's the foundation of our society. This is the best way and believe me that you will soon see final decisions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u44	Thank you very much, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-22-S1-commons.u45	With the consent of the House at the time of 19.26 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 23 November 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
