ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the House's 27-05-2021 authorisation, the LA's minutes of 27 March 2021 were ratified under the responsibility of the Bureau in respect of the vote on the entire draft law: "Consolidation of the contract for the transfer of royalties due to a contribution in kind against an increase in equity between the Private Property Response Fund of the State S.A. on the one hand. and, on the other hand, Hellenic Real Estate Management and Management Company S.A.’]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. Reports completed. Before entering the topical and urgent debate, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Monday 31 May 2021. A. PERSONS First Cycle Questions Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2). 1. The question asked by MP Ioannina in New Democracy by Alexandra Head to the Minister of Health, on "Evaluation of an EGE building in Vineyards Ioannina". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 784/18-5-2021, a topical question by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The non-incorporation of monoclonal antibodies into the therapeutic strategy of the country is a criminal inertia of the Ministry of Health". 3. Under No 783/18-5-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Ilias of the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The openness with forest maps poses serious risks to the inhabitants of Elias". 4. The Question No 795/24-2021 by F' Vice-President of Parliament and Member of Parliament Laris of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The problem that has arisen with foreign workers in the primary sector". 5. The question asked by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Ermoupoli port shipment'. B. EDUCATION OF Second Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) Chamber of Deputies) 1. Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Management and Protection of Thessaloniki - Sou". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 785/19-5-2021 was raised by MP B2 'West Sector of Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis Kourublis, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: 'What actions does Greece take to exclude the 'pants' status of the vaccines against CIVID -19?' 3. The question raised by Mr Apostolos Pana, Member of the Halkidiki Parliamentary of the Change Movement, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Incorporation in a financial programme for the project: "Manufacture of a landfill of land of N. Heraklion Halkidiki (No. Mel. Regulation (EC) No 14/2019)’. 4. - The question raised by Mr Maria Konnakkas, Member of the Communist Party of Greece, to the Minister of Health, on "To serve the Rhodes Hospital directly with anestheticists and all the permanent staff required". 5. Question No 791/23-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: 'What is the plan to carry out the pan-Hellenic examinations in the middle of a health crisis?' 6. The question by number 786/19-5-2021 of the SYRIZA Member of Parliament - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodorou Dritsa, Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: “Crime! With what right does the government decide and authorize the crumbling of the scene and its interior of the historical and maintainable cultural room, the emblem for the city of Piraeus - film "Hi - Life" to sell a company's clothes? 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. Under No 800/24-2021, a topical question by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingdom Kegeroglou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'What are the government's intentions to incorporate into the heavy and unhealthy health of doctors - nurses, etc., and also the self-taxation of newspapers?' 8. The Question No 801/24-5-2021 by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy on the subject: 'The fourteen years on the seabed of Santorini, Sea Diamond'. 9. Under number 788/21-5-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Georgios Katrugalou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: 'Why does the Constitution not apply to the officials of Military Justice?' 10. The question by number 789/21-5-2021 of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. George Born to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "Direct risk of shrinking and eventually abolishing the university departments of the Prefecture of Itolokarna". 11. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens, SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Moussala, Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Manufacture of a government park in the EBO-PYRCAL complex". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Rodopi of SYRIZA under No 5052/12-2021 - Progressive Alliance of Demetrios (Takis) Charitou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: 'Would you take into account the concerns of the residents regarding the permit of wind parks in Regional Unity (PE) Rodopi?' 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The report by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr Vassilios Kegeroglou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The complaint by the National Board of Appeal of Germany's debts to Greece concerning the "MOG/Memorandum from the German occupation in Greece" programme.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Parliamentary and Legal Affairs informs the House of the topical and urgent questions which are currently known and submitted to Parliament. Mr Charalambos (Haris) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the conditions for privatization of the former US base in the islands of Heraklion Crete"? They are not debated because of the Member's imprisonment or Mr. 779/14-2021 of MP B2' West Athens Section of Mera25 Mr. Kriton Arseni to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The Government maintains a regime of fifty-five employees at the Mother Baby Center and other welfare structures" and the MP's number 790/23-25-2021 to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The reduction of benefits to blind scientists and lawyers". We are now opening the debate on the topical and urgent questions. The first third will be discussed, the question raised by number 799/24-2021 at the second time by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'Restoration and promotion of Labyrinth Messaras'. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. The Cave of Lavrynthos is located in the Municipality of Faistou near the village of Kastelli Mesaras and is, according to the caveologists, one of the most important caves. It's probably the biggest one in the country. It had been discovered and used, according to scientists and researchers, since ancient times. The myths connect it to the residence of Minotaur and the myth of Theseas, who managed with the help of Ariadne to kill the monster. But let us come in the last few years. During the German Occupation the Germans used it as a ammunition store, while at their removal, at the end of the Occupation in the region, they destroyed it, at least blew up its entrance, so as not to leave ammunition at the hands of the allies. Until then the cave, from the 17th century onward, was a visit. The Municipality of Faistou took an initiative entitled "We want our history and culture back". The initiative aims to bring back the issue of the restoration and visitability of the Lavrinth cave. Our question to the Minister for Culture is part of this. There has been an investigation, a collection of data, a detailed memorandum from the Municipality, which has been sent to many authorities, to the Greek MEPs, to the authorities in Germany, and what is requested is that Germany also helps in this restoration, precisely because it has used it and then made the energy of destruction and explosion. Because the monument has a serious problem of stagnation, in the sense of the unknown most, access is forbidden, and of course the situation that allows it is not today. Labyrinth is an area of the highest historical importance and could be another pole for nature, research, culture, tourist visits. So we ask the Minister if he has first taken note of the memorandum, because it was not clear from our own information if it has already been studied by the Ministry, and what steps has been taken or what initiatives the Ministry intends to take to ensure that it is resurrected, and certainly through appropriate action to help the victims of the last disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u5	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u6	Good morning, and thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentary, as you know, the Labyrinth or the Labyrinth of Mesara is located two and a half miles northwest of the archaeological site of Gortyna, outside the limits of the declared archaeological site. Actually, we have an artificial cave. It's not natural, it's artificial. It is an underground quarry, which has worked in antiquity, as you mentioned in your question, to provide building material from which some of the monuments of Gortyna have been built. Tunnels and halls were formed through the perception of the rock, which formed a network that was parallel to the mythical labyrinth, and this is due to the name of the quarry in the later times. Also, as you mentioned, during the German Occupation the quarries were used by the island's conquerors to store weapons and ammunition. The latter, in their retreat in 1945, blew up the entrance, enclosing tons of ammunition inside and causing partial destruction of the monument. In 1961 at least this is reflected in the testimonies of that time - the initiative of the people in the region to remove ammunition resulted in the explosion and death of four people. From the autopsies carried out in Labyrinth by the Ego of Speleology and Palaeoanthropology, it appears that the cave has suffered great downfalls from the instability of the rock, due to its morphology and mainly because of the blasting of the munitions by the Germans. Also found by the officials of the Ministry of Culture ammunition scattered in stacks or buried under precipitation materials. Therefore, any attempt to protect and promote the monument from the services of the Ministry of Culture presupposes the removal of the ammunition and the static substrateing of the quarry. The second, of course, comes next. In the same context, it is impracticable and any excavation research within it, while it is clear that there are scattered traces from its ancient use. It is characteristic that entry into the cave is forbidden even in specialized caverns, as there is a serious risk of an accident caused by an explosion of ammunition or collapse. Heraklion Antiquities Cabinet has asked the local government to seal the entrances, precisely, to avoid accidents from any uncontrolled visitors' entrance. However, it has not been done so far. Efforts to remove the martial material to restore the monument have been made in the past, but without achieving its total cleansing. The General Staff of the Army, in response to requests from municipalities to clear up the site, has not yet responded to a plea for the security of their personnel due to the static insufficiency of the cave and the deterioration of the existing old ammunition and has also called for the sealing of incomings. I shall submit the relevant replies to the Minutes. Given the risk of an explosion of ammunition and an accident, we have asked our own services to contact the respective services of the Ministry of National Defence to see what is the appropriate solution for the safe removal of the ammunition and the cleansing of the cave. Since the Ministry of Culture is removed and through the Embassy of Heraklion, and through the Ego of Speleology, they will make the first autopsy to see what is needed in order to begin the demonstration of the cave, but it must be preceded, as you can see, by the removal of all this war material for people's safety purposes. Now, with regard to the initiative of the Municipality of Faistos to the German Government, neither the Ministry of Culture nor the Ministry of Foreign Affairs has made this move known to us. In any case, if all these things go ahead and in terms of removing war material and, anyway, we are told what exactly has been requested by the municipality by the German Government in accordance with our responsibilities, we will obviously support it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is good that you declare the Ministry's interest and the intention to proceed according to your responsibilities in research and possibly in rehabilitation, of course, along with other actions, if there is the precedent that I understand it is about the Ministry of National Defence and the respective agencies. It is a question of co-responsibility of the Ministry of Defence, of course, from what I understand except for the Ministry of Culture, but also from the initiative of the municipality and the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. What I want to say today is that I am satisfied in principle with your will. I will immediately address the Ministry of Defence to see how this safe removal is to be done, because it is also about stagnation. Therefore, synonymity also includes another issue that, during removal operations, there should be at least stagnation, control, to see if there is a question and so that there are no problems. Therefore, what I would like to ask you to do is this statement and your intention to continue in the next few weeks and months in which I will take initiatives towards the relevant ministries on this matter. Of course, the questions are addressed to the government and could have been in agreement, but it is a complex matter, the particularity of the Ministry of National Defence, and because I happen to be responsible for national defence issues by the parliamentary group in the next few days, I will address the Minister, Mr Panagiotopoulos, and I certainly believe that the appropriate cooperation will be available. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u9	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Your Honor, it's obviously a complex project. There is a question of stagnation as far as we can at least know on the basis of the data we have available, because it is the limestone rock that creates such problems especially when explosions have taken place either were the explosion caused by the conquerors themselves in 1945 or later by the attempt made in 1961. It is, in fact, a complex problem and I do not hide from you that, on the basis of your question, we have instructed the services to address the Ministry of Defence precisely because it is matters of co-responsibility and because the questions are addressed to the government, in order to proceed with such procedures. What I would like to say is that the Ministry of Culture, in addition to antiquity or Byzantium, is interested in the industrial heritage, and here I say that in these areas of the quarry, as it was a great storage of ammunition, there are facilities such as rails for the transport of ammunition, as well as other features, which together with the network of German defence works built by strands from the inhabitants of Messara, are a very important historical element for the wider region. The Ministry of Culture has expressed its interest, at least in the last two years, in the promotion of the facilities of the two World Wars, precisely in the sense of developing historical tourism in our country, which has been developed in many other European countries which have such facilities in the two wars, as they should. Therefore, we have every reason to be interested in the promotion of the particular quarry - cave of Labyrinth, in conjunction with the other facilities. Therefore, I repeat that once the proper safety conditions are created for the cave approach and the ability of officials from the Ministry of Culture and other scientists, who will obviously need to be able to enter the cave, the Ministry of Culture will always do what it has to do according to its responsibilities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u11	We move to the second with No 796/24-5-2021 topical question from the Member of the Parliamentary of Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The redundancies in the structures of the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete (CCI P.(')'. Mr Domna Michailidou will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour. Mr Colleagues, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Secretary, as you know, there are eight social welfare structures in Crete. There are others, of course, who do not belong to your Ministry and in due course we will also be placed for them. Hundreds are workers who work with all kinds of flexible working relationships, within the stress of the expiry date, in neural positions to protect the life of vulnerable groups - we are talking about heavy disabled, chronicly ill, children without family - covering the tragic gaps that exist in permanent staff, constant and constant needs. This, of course, is not just about Crete, it is a pan-Hellenic issue. In the pandemic, along with the official thanks and applause, the Ministry of Labour, which supervises the Social Welfare Centres, sent many of these workers to unemployment, for example the assistants. Another link in this chain of anti-grassroots measures - and this at the expense of workers, the caregivers - is the imminent redundancies and those which have already occurred for workers with fixed-term individual contracts of work, twenty-four-month contracts, mainly in cleaning, guarding and feeding. In particular, sixty-four workers in 2021, from 30-3-2021 to 19-10-2021 - this is what the workers themselves have given us - will lose their jobs, with the end of their contract. The contract of twenty contractors has already expired, they have been fired and the cooking has been passed on to a private person. The same is happening in Evrytania, six were fired, in eastern Macedonia 12 were fired and at least thirty more will lose their jobs in the next fifteen days and, of course, all the others until October 2021. This is therefore the result of a time-consuming policy of governments, which has been underfinanced for years and has been undermining these structures, with a view to further strengthening the private sector and business activities in the welfare sector. These guidelines, of course, are also confirmed by the national plan for disabled people, on the basis of the European Union's disability strategy, 2021-2030, which clearly speaks about the gradual closure of the minimum remaining structures hosting disabled people. We, as a JRC, consider workers' demand for permanent jobs to be fair, since they all cover permanent needs, so their work must also be permanent. We are also telling you that a proposal for a law has been tabled by the JRC, on the basis of the proposal of a hundred and thirty trade union organisations, to amend Article 103 of the Constitution, which you and the previous governments also claim follow-up, which prohibits the conversion of fixed-term contracts into indefinite contracts. And that alone could have solved the matter. So we ask you, Minister, what measures will you take to ensure that no redundancies are made and that all the dismissals of the Centre for Social Welfare of Crete and throughout Greece of course are reinstated. Secondly, we call for the permanentization of workers with flexible labour relations. Thirdly, recruitment by urgent procedures of permanent staff of all the specialities for staffing all eight structures, and finally, state resources directly increase in order to fully meet the increased needs of these structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u13	The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice submits its report to the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior "Election of Municipal and Regional Authorities". Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. I understand and really share your concern for all of these fellow citizens. It is indeed an unpleasant development for all of us when we are, even for some time, outside the labour market. I must say, however, that this is an unpleasant development known to both the workers and the administration and to all of us. You know both you and our fellow citizens in this case down in Crete, that these contracts had a very specific expiry date and, indeed, there was neither a legislative framework nor a new contract for it. In particular, Law 4430/2016, adopted by the SYRIZA Government, gave the following possibility: In centralised and decentralised ministries' services, as well as in NPTs and NPTs supervised by Ministries, in order to meet cleanliness, feeding, catering and storage needs, to conclude individual fixed-term private-law contracts, provided that their existing staff are not sufficient and that there are unforeseen or urgent circumstances. However, that law granted this possibility by way of derogation from any other general or specific provision of the law, with a ‘tatan’, but a limited period, which expired on 31-12-2019. The management of the Social Welfare Centre of the Region of Crete made the possibility offered by Law 4430/2016 and proceeded after a notice to conclude twenty-four private contracts in the feeding, catering and another thirty-seven in cleaning and storage. For all these contracts - I say again - there was no possibility of renewal or change in indefinite time, according to Act 4430/2016. Furthermore, there was no appropriate legislative framework for a new tendering procedure. I would also like to refer to the fact that the responsibilities for the fact that such positions have never been proclaimed, since these specialties seem to have been necessary in our centre. And that's why? In the famous 7K, where these positions were announced, it never appeared and the previous administration did not ask for specific positions in the fields of feeding, storage and catering. They were therefore alternative to either the 7K of 2019 or the staff notice, which came out in June 2020. But that's for the story. I now come to answer the second part of your question. First of all, it is clear that the termination of a contract of employment should not be commented on as 'dismissal', it is the termination of a fixed-term employment contract. You may be baptized for other reasons “dismissal” but it is not fired. The second thing I want to make it clear - and I want half a minute for that - is what measures our government will take. Our Government to continue these conventions must violate the laws of the state and you know that. Obviously, we are not prepared to do that. You ask for the permanentization of all subsidiary workers, initially in the structure, then throughout the Social Welfare Centre, I imagine in the rest of Greece. You also know that this is not possible and this time it runs counter to our country's constitution, since for many years there has been a mechanism, there has been the ADP in which the recruitment of permanent staff takes place. I am referring to this in order to point out that, at this time of the day, every operation does not belong to recruitment or dismissal. Yes, there are other forms of work. It may be a certain time, it may be a project, it may be part-time, it may be through research programs, it may be through project. We understand very well the importance of having permanent employees within our prosperous structures, and precisely because we understand that very well, we have been the ones who a year and a half since the initial legislation of the new posts have called for 7K to be taken by permanent officials throughout our country. I'm going to be more detailed in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u16	Madam Secretary, the responsibilities of the previous governments are obvious. The point is that we have not come here simply to account for the responsibilities of the former, because I will tell you 'one hand washes the other person'. The first-hand workers know that you've all put your hands on this situation in social welfare structures and not just. You should have made sure that there is a legislative framework covering these workers. And I'm sorry, the first time I heard the Minister say that the end of a contract is not taken as a dismissal. But you're fired! Now over the last few days, twenty have been fired in Heraklion and have not been re-entered. Six were fired in Eurydice, 12 in eastern Macedonia and not re-entered. What is it? Aren't they redundancies? Are we going crazy now? Where do we live? Do these workers cover tragic gaps, standing and constant needs? Since shifts don't come out. Should you not commit that these workers should not be fired, that they are necessary for these structures? And they are workers who have been exploited on the front line against the pandemic. And now the state comes and rewards them with dismissal, gives them the dismissal of their hands? These are subsidiary workers, those who had replaced contractors, if you remember, before. That's the ones you're firing. I already told you from the protology that cooks, for example, were fired and you already gave the cooking sector to a private person. To cover the social welfare sector, Mrs. Undersecretary, five thousand workers are required on the basis of the establishment plan, and today is a total of two and a half thousand. I mean, almost half of them are gone and they're constantly falling. So, instead of serving these structures, you are doing the whole opposite thing, that is, you are fired. You did the same with the hundred and fifty ancillarys after years of constant and uninterrupted work. You have used the fraud of increased moleculosis in the notices instead of ensuring permanent and stable work. The state budget has been reduced by almost 50% over the last ten years. Many institutions have closed down. There is your plan, which you have announced, which leads to the closure of these structures. And we are now talking about cases of serious disability, unprotected children. The question is: what science, what provision does staff change to such structures? What policy is being taken on the road by workers from welfare centres and, in fact, a pandemic? Do you know that there are studies in the European Union saying that 50% -60% of the COVID victims in the European Union were in such institutions? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] You have done a corresponding study here for our country, which you are obliged to do and give us evidence of how many caregivers in these structures have suffered and how many deaths have we had?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u17	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u18	Do you know that in the structure of the Holy Anargyrs we had a string of cases, twenty-three nurses, and three died? You are obviously responsible for all these issues. We say clearly - and I will close with that, Mr President - that there must be no redundancy of a worker, no matter what contract and employment relationship.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u19	Good. You've already said it twice, three times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u20	To be permanentized all, no branch shutdown and to open new on the basis of the needs of all categories. To be immediately converted into these contracts in indefinite time. An article on two lines. Would it be an amendment to a bill? As you wish, say it. In any case, however, this must be done. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u21	Okay, it's understood. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Synhronakis, the first thing our government can't do is go contrary to the Constitution. It cannot be done either by an article, or by a law automatically, some workers to us, very useful, of a fixed time, become indefinite or become even more, as you say - our permanent employees. For many years now, three decades now, there has been the ASP, which is the Agency that has been making this process. Now, do you know that we have increased staff in our prose structures by 1/3 in the last year? Do you know that? Do you know that we have received five hundred young workers for at least a year and a half, so that we won't leave anyone unprotected? Do you know that within the European Union we are the country that has better shielded its structures for long-term suffering and for the elderly? You tell me about the Centre for Social Welfare in Crete. The Centre for the Social Welfare of Crete today - without the additional staff by 1/3 greater we have - hosts two hundred seventy-five and three hundred fifty-two. For two hundred and seventy-fifths, the permanent staff shall be three hundred fifty-two. This is what you put over eighty, which is the ancillary staff we have now taken, plus that we have asked - if you know, I hope you know - for the needs of mapped and accurate from all our prognostic structures so that, through the ADP, we can declare new positions in the skills they need, because for years what is being done is that they are going from nursing specialties to administrative specialities. So, within COVID we shielded our structures with the strictest protocols across Europe, we shielded them with weekly tests on all structures, shielded them with the primary vaccination from early January. For the last two months, all our privileged structures have been fully armoured, they have done the second dose of the vaccine for two months, so that we can protect the most advantageous, especially within them. In addition to that, I would remind you that once I took over from this State Secretary, we took out the 7K proclamation. A year or so she was sitting in the drawer. We took her off to have permanent staff. And beyond that, we increased the auxiliary by 1/3! And beyond that, we are now gathering the needs! When did the social structures of our provision have more people to care for the benefit of the benefit? I think the last decade ever. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u23	We are now moving on to the first with number 798-24-2021, a topical question for the second question from the MP of Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Reforming the lists of beneficiaries for the expropriations resulting from the construction of the International Airport of Kastelion". Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know, we have discussed more than twice the problem of bureaucracy in paying compensation for the expropriations of the Kastelion airport, the new international airport. The problem was identified, beyond the general delay, in the property that was legacy or legacy fragments of distribution to the refugees. After discussions we have had and together, the Ministry of Rural Development has made the necessary legislative arrangements to retroactively allow the area concerned by this project to be fragmented and expropriated. What we are now asking is about information from lawyers and courtesys that the Ministry of Infrastructure must do the reform of the tables so as to facilitate the process by, of course, applying the Ministry of Development law and avoiding the demonstrable judicial procedures that arise because the tables were drawn up before this provision was adopted by the Ministry of Rural Development. And we ask you whether you will take the initiative so that the services take the lead to reforming the lists of beneficiaries of expropriations to facilitate the process and not to long the time for the return of the rightholders, who gladly give their property beyond the mandatory expropriation for the creation of this great project, but also to take the corresponding compensation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Kefaliannis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Your question gives me a good opportunity to clarify a number of issues that have arisen during the expropriation process, which is under way, and of course concerns the very important work, the new international airport in Castelli. The Government of New Demoaatic Republic, by Law No 4711/2020, has succeeded and resolved an important problem of the procedure, namely the prohibition on transfers of the landed, laid down in Act No 431/1968. In fact, it did not allow the heirs or buyers of the original heirs to be compensated. And that, Mr. Colleague, solved the law. It has not solved what you may have insinuated in your prototype. Because you know very well that in itself, any service cannot proceed to any procedure unless there is a corresponding judicial decision. You are an experienced politician and you know that thing. So you realise that this whole process is a complex one. It therefore requires a large number of administrative actions and, of course, legal actions. And one of this is the syntax of the land registers in which the owners appear to be. I should like to inform you - you know why you are from the region as well - that the property affected, at least according to the figures we have, is seven and a half thousand. A very important number of judicial decisions have been adopted so far by the Court of First Instance in Heraklion to pay compensation for expropriated areas. It is also known that the compensation which has been determined so far by the Court of Appeal of the East Crete and submitted to the Treasury and Loan Fund by the State amounts to 70% with 90% of the assessment report of the certified assessor. In other words, the overwhelming proportion of the compensation provided for has been paid. However, because your question also reveals another element that I will develop in my dentistry in order not to abuse time, I think that this will clarify the landscape and understand what steps must be taken and then, beyond the law passed last year by our Government, and the owners themselves who consider themselves to be affected by this process can go ahead so that they can be paid and compensated. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u27	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u28	Mr President, thank you. Mr Minister, I appreciate you both as a short-hauler and as a human and as a colleague. I have to tell you that I, too, often in answer from this Step to questions, followed the service view, because that is also a security, of course. It is the view of the services. But be careful. This is not what this is all about. It's about the need to take the initiative. It is not a service matter in the sense of the direct obligation of a service. And I explain: I had asked you about the need for regulation on this matter, precisely what you said now that the government was doing and rightly did. The answer to the services you have put to me in my question was that you don't need to. They were wrong then the services are wrong, and now they're wrong. The law is law for everyone. Today the services on your own initiative must comply with the legislation of the Ministry of Rural Development because they have not complied with it. Here's what the Services of the Ministry of Infrastructure have done. Because it was practically prohibited, because it was prior to the arrangement, they did not send the tables based on the names of the current owners, but they sought the original owner who received the distribution, who has died in most cases. I don't know if some of my compatriots live on the Asia Minor descent, but they got the local agency the names of the owners and put them in order and rejected the names of the current beneficiaries. This, I say again, was, as a matter of urgency, not some illegality, because some of the beneficiaries had to be seen because they had not responded to the Rural Development in a timely manner. As you have said, the government has made this necessary regulation even after some delay, but today, if we leave the service that does not want the reform to take place, there will be two, three, five courts to find the final beneficiaries. We can't put people in this suffering. You quite rightly said that the course of expropriations has moved on for most people smoothly. But there are some hundreds who are perverted, what are we going to do? I'm talking about the hundreds. On the other hand, I admit that your information is correct, that the procedures for most people have gone ahead. For the hundreds there's a thorn, what do we do? I suggest you hold a meeting with the service, see the possibility of reform according to today's tables. To take these courts into account the provisional tables according to today's beneficiaries under the law passed by the Rural Development Parliament of the Greeks, the Government, in order to facilitate these people and not to feel unfair. He says, "Are you a Asia Minor? You're wrong again." Why? Why can't the state keep the laws? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Mr Kefaloyannis, the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u30	Mr Colleague, let me tell you quite clearly that this assessment is mutual. I am glad to hear from Parliament every time, because I think something practical comes out of the debate for our fellow citizens in Crete. What you are asking us to do is in fact to replace judicial decisions. Meaning? I do understand on the one hand that the citizen should not be troubled, but you know very well that both the Constitution and the laws have a very specific context. We're talking about expropriations now. We had a regulation last year with the law that I told you before, so that we could overcome the problem of the forced law of 1968. Already, for you to know, about two and a half thousand of our fellow citizens from the seven and a half thousand have gone through all legal actions and are, in fact, at the final stage in order to be fully compensated. So at the moment you know very well that these judicial proceedings should be carried out in practice. Because in itself no agency can substitute the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u31	It must apply the law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u32	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u33	And it doesn't apply him. You tell him to go to court.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u34	No, Mr. Comrade. First of all, I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u35	Uh, one now appreciates and loves another and raises tons? Easy. Continue, Mr. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u36	The law is specific. In order to change, the Greek Parliament should vote. No service can apply contra legem against the law. You have excellent lawyers in your party too. You can ask them, to see whether the laws apply or not. It's a process of expropriation. Those who have followed the judicial way in fact have been vindicated. We have brought the regulation that I said before to you precisely to facilitate the process. And you did, too, contribute to the proposals in that process. But right now, we can't go beyond, like I said, the law and the Constitution. First of all, I would like to say that the Ministry's intention is that by the end of 2021 we would really like all the corrections to be made to the land registers to be carried out and, of course, the procedures relating to both the temporary unit price and the final unit price to be followed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u37	We move to the last to debate, which is the first with number 792/23-2021, a topical question from the Member of the State of Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kaminis to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Direct initiatives by EL.AS. to deal with the Organised Crime’. The Deputy Minister will answer and always present, Mr. Eleftherios Economou. Mr Kamine, here you have the floor to develop the timely question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, lately, in recent weeks, news that has shocked public opinion has been seen. We are talking about cold murders, which, based on all indications, seem to have been committed by organised crime. We are talking about the murder of journalist Karaivaz, the assassination of the businessman in Zakynthos, the murder in the Transformation of Attica, and there are indications that organised crime exists also behind the murder in the Sweet Waters. Public opinion survey recently showed a number of shocking numbers. 67% of Greeks do not feel safe and only 7% feel safe. Apparently, on the basis of this data, the Minister for Civil Protection also decided in the light of the publicity to take a file and go to testify to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, where a lot of data on organised crime is assumed in this file. I wonder: Do Mr Chrysochoidis need cameras to go to the Ice Bay Attorney and discuss organised crime? Aren't there the service channels through which the police contact the local prosecutors and the prosecution of the crime and pre-interrogation, are we going through regular justice? They have then seen the light of publicity, which is an indirect reference to this information provided by Mr Chrysochoidis and to the thoughts of the Ministry of Civil Protection for the reorganisation of the country's security services in view of precisely this outbreak of organised crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our fellow citizens' requirement to enjoy a high level of security in their daily lives is at the same time a task for the political leadership, in which citizens have trusted the country's governance. The citizens therefore always expect the government to develop initiatives within the rule of law to bring society into line with the demand to enjoy a level of public order and security equivalent to any other modern European country. Ladies and gentlemen, solutions that are easy or self-evident when dealing with matters of serious crime do not exist. Those in or outside Parliament who indicate simple solutions of a allegedly active nature, but in fact completely dubious efficiency or even legality, are engaged in the usual inflation guaranteed by the parliamentary security of counter-population. The political and physical leadership of the State Secretary for Civil Protection has been edited and developed a multi-level approach to combating forms of serious crime in the context of the new anti-crime programme for 2020-2024 with a clear targeting, summarised by: To identify, in full and definitive degradation of the criminal organisations being investigated, targeting criminal organisations and targeting criminal activities carried out within such an organisation, increasing the risk of arrest and condemnation of the leading members of criminal groups, in order to prevent and prevent them from joining and participating in them, improving and modernising the methods of investigation, collection and development of information, combating corruption in connection with organised crime. We are constantly focusing on the critical parameters of such a multi-level planning, which are summarised in two points: education, synergies with co-responsible bodies and services. We need professionals who know their role and their mission in depth. For this reason, modules with a cognitive objective of in-depth study of forms of serious crime have been integrated into the programmes of study at the Police Academy. These sections belong to either the courses or the lectures, training or retraining. Particular attention is paid to the education and training of police officers through the regular planning of participation of Greek Police officials in schools and training abroad, such as the FBI, the Homeland Security Investment, the National Crime Agency, Europol in matters and cases of special categories of crime. The effective treatment of cases of serious crime also requires an integrated concept of the phenomenon, which is achieved through the establishment of a clear framework for inter-service cooperation and the gradual establishment and establishment of a concept, a culture - if you want - synergies. So the long-term cooperation of the Management of Organised Crime and Trading Substances of the Directorates of Security at Attica and Thessaloniki is constantly deepened with the competent police services, including the Department of Criminal Research, the Department of Economic Police and the Directorates for Criminal Crimes Against Life and Ownership in Athens and Thessaloniki. This cooperation is constantly gaining the necessary broadness through day-to-day mutual support and with other state authorities, such as the National Intelligence Agency, the Hellenic Coast Guard, the IMO, the Independent Public Income Authority, but also with the competent judicial authorities that constantly supervise the pre-review work to combat these forms of crime. A special mention is due to the dynamics that the Greek Police have received with the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority from Criminal Activities. At the request of the Head of the Greek Police in September 2019, the framework for cooperation between the competent services of the Greek Police with it has now been established with the necessary clarity and completeness, focusing on the immediate and timely cooperation even at an early stage of the investigation conducted in cases of serious crime, at the same time as examination by the stage of the pre-inquiry of the persons concerned or their associates, if they have also committed the money laundering offence and information to the Authority in the case of relevant findings. In the uninterrupted assistance to relevant requests from the Authority, communication channels shall be permanent and shall be ensured through the appointment of managers from each Party as contact points. The mission of the Economic Police Directorate is also of paramount importance. It focuses on the prevention, investigation and repression of economic crimes committed against the national economy, having characteristics of organised crime, but also on research, prevention and repression of undeclared, uninsured work and tax evasion. With an emphasis on education, continuing training, but also on developing a wide-ranging network of cooperation with other institutions and agencies - both domestic and foreign - which is constantly being strengthened, the competent services of the Greek police are carrying out methodically, consistently and with appropriate professionalism the mission assigned to them by the state, ensuring the necessary security conditions for the progress and well-being of citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u41	Good. Here, Mr. Kamine, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. When I talk to Mr. Economou, I always feel like I haven't learned anything new. Unfortunately, this is happening and I think that we are dealing here with a particular government interest in communication and not paying any attention to the substance. We have been listening for so long to create the Special Branches of the Security Forces in various areas of surveillance. We also heard about the Group for the Protection of Universities, which was supposed to start operating in the summer and is now at least referring to winter bells. But if I understand correctly from a sound report, the idea is abandoned. And well they do and leave the idea, because within universities they won't force order with special police bodies. I see, unfortunately, the government is at the moment divided, because I hear from the same valid report that it is the Ministry of Education that has not installed the special surveillance equipment within the universities. We said that the fragmentation of the police in special sections for public opinion, that this would allegedly give rise to better policing, whether it relates to demonstrations, to university institutions, or to public transport, would not render and in some cases create a special spirit of self-determination, which would lead to fragmentation and inefficiency. When Mr Chrysochoidis swore to the Minister for Civil Protection, he announced a few days later that he would take the police off the offices and take them off the street. What do we read these last few days from the police unions themselves? We read, for example, that the largest police department in Thessaloniki, the White Tower Department, has a capacity of three hundred and twenty-eight people and serve only two thirds. We read yesterday in a newspaper sent to you by the Chief of the St. Dimitrios Police Department and told you it would be closed'magaz', because there are no people. Where have all these promises been about having a regular policing? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because I have funded a mayor and had a very close contact with the world, I would like to inform you that people neither want the absence of the police, nor the absence of the police. What they want is for there to be the police presence. She works superstitiously.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u43	Finish, Mr. Kamine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we expect to hear when you will stimulate the sense of security of the citizen, without engaging in communication fireworks, and without announcing special protection bodies for people who you do not intend to make, or why you did not mean it at the outset, or why you cannot even cooperate with each other, such as the Ministry of Education with the Ministry of Civil Protection. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u45	Here, Mr. Economou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kamine, while respecting the time, I shall confine myself to answering your relevant question and not addressing all the issues that you have raised. I understand the reasons, but in the next few years we will have plenty of time before us to respond to a number of what you have raised. In my first place I have attempted in relatively short terms to inform Parliament of the structures, relationships and synergies of the Greek Police Directorates in the fight against crime of particular importance, but also the cooperation that exists with the Anti-Fraud Authority or specialised mechanism of the Ministry of Finance. I also informed what exactly is envisaged in the training of Greek police officers, but also in international cooperation with the Anti-Fraud Offices of the organized crime of the United States of America and Europe. I would like to refer to the initiative taken by the Minister, Mr Chrysochidis, on the basis of your question. The Minister went to the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay with information available to the Greek Police, in order to tackle criminal groups, which, among other things, treat murder methods against members in their efforts to continue their illegitimate activities. You realise that, in particular, as regards the course of the investigations, and because the investigation is governed by the principle of secrecy, because it is still in the pre-interview phase, I cannot deal with any more specific details where we are. Ladies and gentlemen, the strategic choice of the competent ministries and the prosecution authorities in cases of serious crime is to make particular use of the economic component of the black money and the laundering of these funds, in order to dismantle these gangs. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] ‘Follow the money’, the famous phrase by the American prosecution authorities about and especially the FBI as a methodology for dismantling criminal activities has brought significant results. Therefore, the main issue is to identify, but also to trace the path of the black money of these gangs. The aim is to find Ariadne's mitte for their dissolution and the arrest of their members. The follow-up then consists in the proper determination of the case, the arrest of those who are alleged to be perpetrators or accomplices and their reference to regular justice for a fair trial. With the legislative framework being updated, with increasingly upgraded structures in the fight against these forms of crime, by using increasingly modern technologies and international cooperation, such as Interpol, Europol and other co-operating law enforcement authorities, we are relocating the new anti-crime policy programme daily. In reply to your current question, therefore, I would like to convey the will, determination and preparedness of the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection, and of the Headquarters of the Hellenic Police, as well as of the officers and staff of specialists in the fight against specific forms of crime, to proceed with full priority and full cooperation with the judicial authorities and other co-ordinated services in the dismantling and disarmament of criminal groups, which, through their action, are in vain attempting to disrupt the sense of security that all citizens are entitled to enjoy in a modernised state, such as the Greek. I can assure you that the active treatment of these phenomena is a central task every day for the Ministry of Civil Protection and requires systematic work and time. The uniform staff, with a clear target, with commitment and the required professionalism, continue to fight their own day-to-day battle so that our country can maintain what we have won, with years of and methodical work from all of us, that is to say, our country is among the safest destinations in the world. Their efforts are of particular importance, an increased value, during the current period, where after a long pause in the tourism sector we are once again optimistic about the new tourist season with the eyes of millions of tourists on our country. Our task is to maintain the high level of security that those who live and those who visit Greece enjoy and not to cultivate the climate of forensics, without any special basis. Regarding the question of Greece staying one of the most secure in the world, I would like to assure you that, with the contribution of all of us, we can achieve it and we will achieve it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u47	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Because I understand that Mr Tsipras wants the floor, I will of course give you the floor, but I must tell you, in order to record it in the Minutes, that on the basis of Rule 132 you have no right to take the floor today, because it is parliamentary control. The Rules of Procedure are clear. However, because I am an old Member of Parliament and I have learned to respect the institutions and the Chief of Officership is the fourth institutional factor, according to the Constitution, I am going on the substance rather than on the press. I don't know why you want the floor. I will give it to you, despite the fact that it will be a one-sided one, because I will not in fact be able to answer you. Even if I know why I am not allowed as President-in-Office to answer the substance of the matter, only if it is necessary on a point of order if that is the case. You therefore have the floor, Mr President. There is, as you know, no time on the Rules of Procedure, I give you ten minutes and you handle the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr President, for at least showing respect for the institutional function of the Chief of Staff and to the essence of democracy in Parliament, which is why and why. But I am not responsible for it, Mr President. It is the third consecutive Friday that in the Prime Minister's time I put a timely, critical question. It is not about the Members of the Officerial Representation who are currently on the table. It is not about paradoxical or party controversy. It is about a hundred thousand Greek families, hundreds of thousands of students of the Third High School, who spend this year the Golgotha of the examinations, in the most difficult, most critical year of the pandemic crisis, the health crisis, with stress, stress, the inability to find themselves next to their classmates and their teachers to do through a living educational process like in the past few years. These hundred thousand students and their families, Prime Minister Mitsotakis, writes them in the oldest of his shoes. It is the third consecutive Friday, and if on the first Friday the excuse was that it had to go three days to break out on Tinos, either by boat or by helicopter - I don't care about it - on the second and third Fridays there is no excuse why it is missing, and the only real explanation why it is missing is why it has no answers, is why he can't look into these hundreds of candidates and their families. Because it is unprecedented to change the system of introduction to higher education in this difficult year and to apply in the same year. Other times the import system has changed, and other governments have changed their import system, but they have applied the change at least by giving the time to adapt families, the candidates for change. Now, then, it comes up and applies a reduction, also unprecedented in time, by reducing the entrants by one third - in this difficult school year it is coming to make it even more difficult for this difficulty they are experiencing, for families and candidates - to be anxious and implemented this year. And he's not coming to answer. I call that political cowardice. It's political cowardice that the Prime Minister runs away. And if he doesn't come, we'll be here, Mr. President, ladies and gentlemen, we'll be in the temple of democracy to highlight the big issues that concern the Greek society. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Of course, I cannot at this point mention the fact that it is not just the political cowardice that characterizes Mr Mitsotakis. Yesterday, at an event of particular weight, institutional and international importance, in front of the leadership of the European Union, at the event for the 40 years since the country's accession to the European Union, it also displayed another key feature of its identity policy, beyond political cowardice, of the tragedies. Because he was courageous in front of European officials and at such an event to speak not as a Prime Minister in the name of all Greeks, but as a party in a provincial café, as a party of the right-wing party, with a dissentful speech, with an arsonist speech, with which he equated the left with fascism. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where has he seen these things written to equate the struggles for the democracy of a party that gave blood for democracy in this place with fascism, hatred and extreme right? And he had the great nerve to talk about a dark break, referring to the rule of SYRIZA in the '15-19s. The government that kept the country in the European Union and in the euro despite the blackmails, despite the threats, the government that upgraded the country's prestige called it a dark break. Is it really a dark break to save the country from the bankruptcy in which your resignation had led us? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is it a dark break to leave the country after the memoirs eight years? Is it a dark break the debt regulation that keeps us in this crisis today with the head out of the water? Is it a dark break of twelve consecutive quarters of growth, a 10% reduction in unemployment? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Is it a dark break for Mr Mitsotakis, the EUR 37 billion that he found in public funds, the pillow, in which he sleeps in peace today in the face of this unprecedented crisis? This money belongs to the Greek people, of course, but with good management ours is there to protect the national economy. Is this all a dark break? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He's a nerve. It's cowardice and cowardice. It is a disgrace that his position yesterday is devastated, his absence from Parliament today. And all that - yesterday I mean - Mr Mitsotakis - on the day when the Supreme Federal Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe resigns the German Government, Chancellor Merkel, in particular the then Minister of Finance and current President of the Federal Parliament, Mr Symble, on their strategy in the negotiation of '15s and on their blackmailing towards Greece and on their strategy to expel the country from the euro, to break up European unity. Mr Mitsotakis comes on this day and on the forty-year anniversary of the country's accession to the European Union to speak with this bisecting speech, to address those who gave the battle at that time and to call them populists, fascists, extremists. That is why it divides, it is not a reason that unites and even the day that the Italian President of the European Parliament, Mr Sasoli in the same position, came in the same speech with an apology on the part of the whole of the European family, the whole of the European Union and said that it was Europe's mistake to stand against Greece all these years, it was the memorials of revancism and extortion. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So Mr. Mitsotakis proves that he's not just a coward, but he's also unrepentant. Unrepentant of all those who at those difficult days came out and shouted "the Shoeble Basket" and did not take the part of the government and the Greek people in this difficult battle. So you're not gonna write the story again. History is recorded and history has proved today and yesterday and earlier that the progressive party in this place has fought both for democracy and for the European perspective of the country, but also for prosperity by always supporting the weak. Of course, he spoke with courage and with regard to the progressive forces - he is allegedly speaking on behalf of the progressive forces. The 'Soibelle vague' became progressive and all the rest of us became fascists. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But who speaks of progressive powers, who speaks of populism and demagogy? The man who dressed as a Macedonist who took the Golden Dawn and divided the Greeks when we signed the Prespecies Agreement? Is he talking about populism, demagogy and progressive forces? The one who never believed everything he complained about, because it was obvious that it was for the benefit of this country that this agreement and the one who dressed as a Macedonian, who divided the Greek people, now honors the agreement. But that is also a shameful thing to do. It is honoured in secret because, when the Prime Minister of Northern Macedonia comes, he dare not mention the name of the country for six months, he has suspended the vote of the memorandum of cooperation in the Greek Parliament. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Another time, then, Mr. Mitsotakis, when he talks about populism and demagogy, it is good to look at the mirror, because he will see his face. Next to the article "democrat" when you go to the internet, it is certain that the Prespecies Agreement and the photo of Mr. Mitsotakis, the largest democrat, the biggest political fraud in the modern history of the place will come true. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Mitsotakis, however, is absent from Parliament and is absent, taking off yesterday, if I am not mistaken, a leak from the governmental circles, the cycles of Maximos, saying that he does not come to stop the calmness of the students who are preparing to give the exams from Greece. But their calmness is disturbing by introducing this regulation which reduces their hopes of being introduced into higher education institutions. And I wonder why the new generation is like this? He accused them of spreading the pandemic. Now she's extinguished them by working law to work a life unpaid for ten hours, unpaid overtime in a life-tire. Now he's throwing them out of S.H.I.E.L.D. Eventually, Moses showed us Herod and not Moses! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And because I want to be quite clear, not all of this is random. All this is done in order to serve very specific private interests. And in the altar of the service of these interests, Mr. Mitsotakis did not horror to set a target, to put young people and their families on the wall. Because before deciding on this disgusting reform of the introduction to higher education, in the name of so-called academic criteria that we have never learned, they have taken care to bring an amendment to the muddy or rather two amendments, which equates the degrees of dubious quality private colleges with those of the higher education institutions and another that obliges the Chambers, the Technical Chamber, the Association of Athens and the other lawyers to include the graduates of colleges in their registers. So it actually obliges the equation of the HEIs, bypassing the Constitution, with the dubious quality private colleges operating in the country. So what's the target? The aim is twenty-five thousand less entrants this year, so that in three, four years' time the graduates will be twenty-five thousand, so that from time to time they will do gold jobs, the particular private interests, the private ones, the owners of private colleges. In the altar of private interests you are leveling the future and perspective of the new generation. That's why he's not coming today, and his chair is empty, because he doesn't have to answer these arguments. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And well his aggression towards the new generation. We're talking about class hate here, and I'm going to explain why. Of course, we have known all about this since he was election in the pigeon and told us that famous for the coolers. We knew all this, but we did not expect it to be unfolded in front of us with such great extremity. What's he doing with the high school graduates? It was an institution in the country of 1% of the admissions to the universities of the country to be introduced among the candidates for graduation. This enabled us each year to have about six hundred with seven hundred attendants from the children of night schools. Do you know who the night school kids are? These children who don't have Dad to give them the opportunity to go to college or "Columbia", but work to study. You're cutting out of the future for these kids! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So terrible would it be to suspend this misery, to predict that the minimum import base will not apply to the children of night schools? When I told the House here, Mr. Mitsotakis didn't even know about it. But what would the six hundred disciples of the violin tell him? He only cares about college kids. I have no problem with these kids who have the financial potential of their parents. But in this place justice must finally return. And justice means being able to study this child with abilities, but he doesn't have the economic power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, I would like to ask you not to embarrass me. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u50	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr President, I would also like to say that last Monday I was in the Tower of Elias and Amaliada, in a region affected by government policy, where every day there is a carniola road Patras - Tower, because people are losing their lives. Projects had begun, but the government suspended the implementation of the contracts and today the projects remain on the air. But most importantly because the government - Mr. Javaras knows well - ask him if you want - to close in the context of the implementation of this policy two schools, the Department of Music at the Tower and the Department of Agriculture in Amaliada, leaving to the "air" a thousand five hundred students. So, here we are talking not only about the agony of the candidates, but also about the agony of thousands of students - because it will also continue in Elias today - who are waiting to complete their studies and their departments will be closed, because they will not join. Before I finish, I'll say one more thing. Today I read something in the government paper. What is a government newspaper? 'THE NEWS' by Mr Marinakis, the 'RIZOPASTI' of Maximos. So it's obvious he's in line, or I wouldn't say it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I read that the government is taking back the implementation of the law which voted in a conflict-related climate in the House and in the streets from the resistance of students to the establishment of police departments within universities. And I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, how funny are they anyway? How funny are they after all? The disgrace I was saying before is not only Mr Mitsotakis's idiom, but also the government's strategy. He comes and tells us he's going to put democracy in the universities. Why doesn't he put democracy on, not the police, as he was telling us? - and now they're coming to get it back. It's really funny what's going on. For reasons of communication only, in order to defend ideologies, to petty your conservative audience, you define and vote laws, but you cannot apply them. And that's the funnyness and carelessness that characterizes the government. I'm closing up saying this. We sincerely call on the absent Prime Minister to rethink - there is still time - not to open up a great debate about who is right or who is wrong, but to 'frozen', to suspend the application, as he inhibits in practice and misery with the university police, so also to suspend this misery here with the cut, the charisma in tertiary education for thirty thousand students. [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] We opened universities, grew students and hired teachers. This government closes universities, closes schools, reduces invaders and hires police officers. That's our difference! The Greek people, however, will very soon recognize this difference. So we invite you to back off, in the name of the peace of the hundreds of thousands of families, in the name of youth, which is the prospect, is the future of this place! Take back the application of this misery for the minimum import base and the reduction of importers! Get her back! Don't apply it this year!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u51	Mr President, I am uncomfortable because it is like being chaired by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, something that you, of course, do not want and I do not want! If I wanted to, but there is no possibility, I could go down to the seat and speak as a Member of my party and answer everything you said, since only I am present from New Democracy as a parliamentarian. Mr. Economou isn't. However, I will only give an answer to the part concerning the functioning of the House and therefore the Bureau. For the rest, I won't make the mistake. So the Prime Minister, on the basis of the evidence, Mr. President of the Officerial Representation, has answered seven topical questions, three of your own, three of the Change Movement and one of Mera25. Last IZ' Period in forty-nine months you answered a total of ten topical questions. At the same time, the Prime Minister's initiative was, of course, conducted five times in the course of the procedure referred to in Rule 142a, the first on 14-2 and the last on 25-2-2021. For all the rest, it is certain that the government will be informed, that there will be an answer from the Government representative, and I am sure that this will not be the last time you spoke to the Prime Minister and that you will get the answers from the Prime Minister. I, as Bureau, have to stop here. After giving you the derogation to the President, I will give you the floor for three minutes, Mr. Economou, in the part that concerns you from what Mr. Tsipras said, namely your Ministry. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u52	Mr President, thank you. With regard to the report on the cancellation of the notice, Mr President, I would like to inform you that the procedures are working properly. On Monday the notice will be announced properly and there is no suspension in this whole procedure. As provided for in the law, all proceedings are progressing and on Monday the notice will have been announced properly. As far as the rest is concerned, Mr President, I agree with your suggestion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u53	The topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-28-S1-commons.u54	With the consent of the House at 10.45 p.m., the sitting on Monday, May 31, 2021, at 16.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: topical questions.
