ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before we enter the subject, I would like to make some announcements to this House: The Standing Committee on Social Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "For the Protection of Labour - Establishment of an Independent Labour Inspectorate - Validation of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation on the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work - Settlement of the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life". The Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Labour and Social Affairs, Health and Infrastructure and Transport, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection submitted a draft law on 11-6-2021: ‘Economic restoration of concessional airports due to the consequences of the COVID-19 pandemic of the year 2020’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. The President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and its party MPs tabled on 11-6-2021 a proposal for a law: 'Economic resolution of political parties'. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. We are now starting with our procedural procedures. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK The only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "For the Protection of Labour - Recommendation of the Independent Authority "Independent Labour Inspectorate" - Settlement of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work - Status of the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life". The Conference of Presidents decided by majority vote at its meeting on 10 June 2021 to discuss the draft law at three single sittings on principle, articles and amendments. In particular, the discussion of the draft law is proposed to take place in a natural presence in twelve-member circles including speakers in the following analogy: Five New Democracy, three SYRIZA and one of each party, Change Movement, KKE, Greek Solution, Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters and the competent authority has drawn up a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who wish to be put through a teleconferencing will speak as soon as the speakers have completed their courses in a natural presence. Addendums will only be accepted by mutual change. This is where I give you an update. We won't give you the list yet. I propose to you until the six rapporteurs and speakers speak, that the parties have the right to make mutual changes, send them to us, draw the final list, which will be distributed to you. Don't give you another directory, and then start making changes and becoming fermented. So within the next two hours if there's going to be mutual changes, you can tell us. I also note that if we do not comply strictly with the speaking time, you will be deprived of your colleagues' right to speak, given that the debate will be concluded on Wednesday by voting around eight o'clock at night. Is there any objection to these initials?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u2	The House voted by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u4	Here you go, Mr. Paphie. Do you want the floor on these or any other matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, our position is known.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u6	But I said by a majority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u7	I'm saying in total now, so we can get to the bottom of it. We're asking for the withdrawal of course. The government does not retreat. Secondly, we have no illusion - and you know that we are very vile in objections of unconstitutionality - that there can be too many provisions - not to say, half of them - unconstitutional and unconstitutional. However, because it is not any bill, but it is a top one, which literally demolishes Labour Law at the expense of the working class and the whole of the people's strata, that is why we will give it to you - an objection of unconstitutionality. I don't want to describe it now. Yannis Giokas will develop it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u8	Because I suppose there may be another party, when they are tabled, photographed and shared to the rapporteurs of all the parties. And I would like to make the suggestion to you, ending with the sixth speaker, immediately afterwards, that we should object to unconstitutionalism so that all Members can be informed of the content.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u9	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u10	Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor. I don't give time, but be merciful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u11	Good morning and good week. Mr President, it is well known that this bill - and I do not want to go far - is, in fact, a negative historical breakthrough, because it is turning us at least one and a half centuries ago in terms of the status of working relations. We want the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group and on the basis of Rule 100 of the Rules of Procedure to plead unconstitutionality. However, this essentially serves a single basic objective, beyond this particular reference to the provisions which we consider to be outside the constitutional framework, the need for this bill to be withdrawn. The only way, in order to be able to move as a society at a time with unprecedented difficulties in a new way of dealing with things, is to withdraw this bill. I therefore object to the objection of unconstitutionalism and, at the same time, the political requirement at least at the very last moment when the government sees the pandemic - to use a timely term - contrasting society, which you know very well, Minister, of the rolling polls that you take in your hands every day, has exceeded 60%...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u12	You'll tell that in your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u13	I'll tell my speech. We therefore object to anti-constitutionalism, obviously with the request for withdrawal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u14	All right, all right. The answer is the same as the one I told Mr. Pafiley.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u15	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u16	But don't waste time now. Here you go, Mr. Mulkiotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. We request that the provisions of Articles 55 to 125 be withdrawn as a Movement of Change. Excludes ratification of international conventions and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u18	Okay, you're specific who exactly ask for withdrawal. Good, thank you very much. So we can start. I call on Mr Constantine Maraveya, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy, to step up the process. Mr. Maraveya, here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Protection Bill, which is coming for discussion today, is a comprehensive reform, because it clearly translates the social priorities of the New Democracy into government acts. This is an integrated legislative framework which increases the protection of workers from redundancies, improves working conditions, particularly in the areas of the protection of the personality of workers, their health and safety. A number of new permits are introduced for personal and family reasons. It provides the possibility of adjusting working hours to the needs of the workers. A characteristic example is the four-day full-time working week. It ensures control and remuneration for all hours of employment, normal, overtime etc., by introducing the digital working card. So the question that is automatically asked is: why are all the above obviously positive measures for workers not accepted by the Opposition? On the contrary, we have been listening for almost two months to the so-called charitable parties, in fact working in the workplace, to denounce the bill as an atrocious, monstrous and so on. Extreme messages have been heard about the abolition of the eighth hour, the reduction of remuneration, the facilitation of redundancies and so many other funny things, let me be allowed. In fact, recently some colleagues from SYRIZA and the Communist Party considered it appropriate to add to the lies and personal insults and angry threats against the New Democracy. This is therefore a controversy, which counterpopulation leads to extremes by asking people how, what is the case in the end? Because one of them is lying, and even fat. The wise people, of course, remind us that "Sunday, short holidays". The implementation of the new job will be immediate, so all the workers will have the opportunity to see that, for example, the eighth day was not a dozen hours, but that they acquired rights to new licences and the possibility of better managing the time of their work. So the question that goes automatically is: Why does the opposition insist on being exposed to such a degree by insisting on lies that will soon be revealed? Why so keenly ask, especially SYRIZA and the Communist Party, for the withdrawal of the bill? I was in trouble, too, and I wondered whether this extreme reaction stems from a particular reason that the parties themselves have. Why, for example, a party that is charitable on paper, such as SYRIZA, should refuse the new framework for limiting redundancies? Why, if it were law today's bill in 2018, couldn't SYRIZA make the punishing redundancies at the radio station "STO COKINO"? I would remind you that in 2018, the strike committee of workers at this party radio had been fired together, after other redundancies of his workers had been ahead of them. And what did people react to? They reacted to the reduction of their earnings by 20% by a SYRIZA who had attempted to blackmail and unilaterally impose a radical cut in their wages on workers, while they did not demand anything more than dialogue with the radio station administration. And today we hear SYRIZA talking about collective bargaining, redundancies and other loudspeakers. I would remind you here that the redundancies of 'COOKENO' were deemed in 2019 to be illegal and abusive by the judiciary to which former workers of SYRIZA's party radio were appealed. I make the complaints of workers and the relevant judicial decision in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Maraveyas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would remind you here that we had the same phenomenon as the Communist Party, which in 2010 fired the workers of its own station in '902', and indeed accused them of being blamed by the 'RIZOPASTI'. I am tabling the relevant passage in the Minutes as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u20	Three thousand people...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u21	Come on, calm down! When you get up to the Step, you'll say what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u22	Your voices are...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u23	What are we gonna do? Censorship to the rapporteur?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u24	...and look like a roller gauze. That's the level. Employees were talking, and then - a coincidence? - for the vigilance of the JRC, an anti-government orgasm, suffocation, punishmental redundancies, even employees' representatives and so many others. [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] Today, however, the JRC denounces the allegedly denominating trade union action, due to the draft law on compulsory registration of unions. So banning the unions because they're registered. To see the reality now, I would like to remind you of what the redundant workers of '902' said about the JRC itself. That the trade union organization was always banned at the station. If we therefore want to see who is turning against the unions, we need to read the announcements of his dismissals '902', which - I am tabling in the Minutes - whoever is interested in remembering them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u25	Expose.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u26	They denounced...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u27	You have to understand that you've registered two hundred ten. Calm down so we can finish on time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u28	...working ghetto, as he tried to isolate them even from their sectoral trade union organization, HITITA, so that the workers would not have any trade union presence at all. The so-called collaborative JRC which reminds me that in 2013 it fired dozens of "RIZOSOPASTI" and "Contemporary Age" employees, leaving according to public complaints unpaid to the employees in "RIZOSOPAST", "902", and "TYPEHODIC" for more than seven, ten and twelve months respectively. And yet, these same labor parties, such as SYRIZA and the KKE, come to accuse the New Democracy of an infamous anti-government policy today. If this isn't a culmination of hypocrisy, you tell me what it is. One thing is certain: all these extremes do not concern society, which was also demonstrated by the one-digit participation of workers in the strike last Thursday. However, Mr Tsipras said that 80% of the citizens are negative to the changes that the government is trying to impose. Okay, we know he's not doing well with the arithmetic and he's also talked about a 360-degree turn. So the one-digit percentage of doing it 80% can be said that it is not very strange. Of course, my colleague, Mr Zachariadis, gave an interpretation a month ago when he said at a party event in SYRIZA that Alex could have a very good knowledge of matters. In my opinion that cannot be an excuse. Why should the President of SYRIZA not be able to have proper knowledge of matters more often? What's blocking him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u29	Did I say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u30	Was it, for example, hard to look around in the Constitution last Thursday and see that there were only organised members of his party and other parties and trade unions there? And, in any case, they all represent 80% of the Greek people? I think that such amazing statements are not due to a lack of proper knowledge of matters, as Mr Zachariadis said, for his Chief. But there was something self-criticism about what Mr. Tsipras said last week about the bill. He admitted that SYRIZA must submit his own proposals for the world of work. And he's right. For as far as Parliament is concerned, the relevant legislative proposals from SYRIZA simply do not exist for the last two years. Zero, therefore, to the clairvoyant that another one of the Socialists said. And since I also referred to socialism with Greek characteristics, I must say that I was impressed by the statement made by Mrs Gennamas that KINAL will also abolish this new work once we enter the path of new change. This extreme anachronism, unfortunately, shows that it is not just the left who lives in Greece of the past. Various parties form their own virtual reality. By lying or delusional, as they say. Mr President, I would like to mention something on this point which will certainly also be of interest to the colleagues of the Staff Regulations. I shall refer to a scientific podium which is very relevant to today's debate. The doctoral thesis of Ms. Ahtsioglou at the University of Thessaloniki. A very interesting book, which, although published in 2014 in times of memorial times, had little to do with the bad memorials. So what was her subject matter? I repeat, scientific coup and not political. My colleague's thesis. Trade union rights in relation to the economic freedoms of the Union legal order and I submit the thesis in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u31	Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u32	I'll describe it to you, don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u33	Ladies and gentlemen, is this now an observation to read the thesis? By afternoon, he'll read it, then. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u34	He's invoking her.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u35	Calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u36	You can also take away time, please, Mr President. The position of her doctorate, in two words, is that labour rights are not deliberately protected by the European Union. I would stress that Mrs Ahtsoglou does not consider what Greece did until 2014, but what the European institutions did not do. In other words, the European Parliament, the European Council, the Court of Justice of the European Union. So Mrs Ahtsoglou's conclusion was that the European Union through its institutions systematically refuses to protect labour rights. Yes, sir. Very nice and respected. This is what SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy are currently imputing. Very nice. In this thesis, in fact, it unfolds a point of argument why the European Union is doing this badly. First of all, it is the lack of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the Union for Workers. Also, during Mrs Ahtsoglou, the Court of Justice of the European Union is also co-responsible with the key anti-corruption decisions it has taken. So let us say that to this end it is not a political position which is based on Mrs Ahtsoglou's point of view, but that she has judged scientifically whether the European Union is protecting trade union rights and other rights. But then, Mrs Ahtsoglou also unleashes a lipstick against various Community directives on labour rights, for which she criticises these directives - by reminding us of the JRC - which, as you know, are political decisions by the European Union. All this, of course, in far away 2014. We now go five years after the first half of 2019, where SYRIZA is a government and fate wanted Mrs Ahtsoglou to be a responsible Minister of Labour. How life brings them! The Greek Government is invited to sign the Community Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council, which is finally finalised on SYRIZA on 20 June 2019. What does this directive say, among other things? Did Mrs Ahtsoglou, through this directive, succeed in turning Europe's course according to her previous thesis? Oh, no. It includes the so-called flexible working arrangements, which, I repeat, Mrs Ahtsoglou co-signed as the competent Minister at that time. And what does this flexibility provide for? It gives the worker the opportunity, at his own request, to form his working hours, as required. That's right. Does that remind you, ladies and gentlemen? If so, it is right to remind you, because it is precisely the possibility of forming the eighth, which is general in this bill, so that it is offered to all workers. Not only to parents or relatives, as provided by the Community directive, but to everyone. And students and workers with no children. This is the famous individual arrangement that SYRIZA has today won, but it was signed by the Minister of Labour of SYRIZA two years ago. Since you signed it, and today you have a problem, your problem is obviously the integration of students and those who have no children. However, we are not talking here about the proverbial political coliforms, which you are accustomed to. We are talking about the enormous personal untrustworthy of a Minister, who in 2014 writes a full thesis about how the European Union mistakes the rights of workers but in 2019 agrees with the European Union and in 2021 reinvigorated what it itself signed. Finally in SYRIZA, even any of its members may be well aware of the issues, according to Mr Zachariadis, even those who follow the party standby, constantly going from one end to another and believing that they will be dizzy to the voters so that they cannot give them a certain political position or simply think that the citizens are suffering from amnesia. Mr President, New Democracy respects the Greeks, speaks documentaryly and does what it says. With the new worker, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis comes to implement a series of commitments, such as the Settlement of Conventions 187 and 190 of the International Labour Organisation to promote safety and health, as well as the elimination of violence and harassment at the workplace. In addition, strict measures shall be taken to protect workers against abuse and occupational risks. Incorporating the Community Directive 2019/1158 on the balance of business and private life. Many new permits are introduced for workers with a view to protecting their own and family. Arrangements are being introduced for the protection of labour and for the legislative protection of new forms, such as teleworking and the employment of deliver and courier on digital platforms. Rules on the transparent functioning of trade unions are laid down in order to ensure that decisions are not taken by organisations - seals. The digital working card for the protection of the eighth is finally in place, and not only is it abolished but it will really be controlled to impose sanctions on the employer. Now both normal and overtime will be recorded digitally, ensuring that they are paid as a whole. The protection of the new father from dismissal, as well as his entitlement to new parental leave of 14 days with remuneration and two months with OAED grant, as well as to mothers, is laid down. Restrictions are made for female recruitment, as parental leave will be granted to all working parents without exception. The protection framework for redundancies is being affixed. The range of protection against redundancies for many abusive behaviours of employers is widened. We are strengthening employers' obligations. Among other things, we are introducing a ban on work retaliation and reversal - let me not say'reverse' - the shift in the burden of dismissal in cases of the harassment of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u37	Mr. Maraveya, you can see time across!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u38	I see him, I'm finishing up, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u39	If you see him, you'll be shortened. [[Noise in the Chamber from the wing of SYRIZA]] Do not complain, your rapporteur will do the same! Cut him out? Don't complain!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u40	We reserve the right to disconnect telework, that is, the right of the worker not to respond to calls and messages from the employer beyond the agreed working hours, thereby protecting his family and personal life. We upgrade the Labour Inspectors' Body to an Independent Administrative Authority and finally, we predict that during strikes there will be compulsory guaranteed service personnel to ensure that at least 1/3 of the service rules are provided to critical sectors such as health, transport, cleanliness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u41	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u42	Ladies and gentlemen, as both recent participation in public consultation on the bill and non-participation in Thursday's strike, citizens directly reject the wooden word, yellowing ideas and political bulkyness.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Maraveya, I will not make any comment. Finally, you said that five times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u44	I'll be done. By saying vulgarity, I mean the extremist characterisations, because the workers know the real market conditions and do not need to be described as paternalists. What they request is lawfulness, full pay for their work and better conditions. This is precisely what guarantees the new labour, progressive concept and integrated view of the labour market, based on strict state regulation. I dedicate this battle that I gave as rapporteur for the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen, to those who have had the honour of having at times been close to me as colleagues from the position of the employer or my fellow colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u45	All right, hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u46	They know me well and know that it is another struggle that I am giving in the right way to defend their working rights and the balance of their lives. That's why these people also honor me with their friendship. I keep talking to them with my voice and my example. It is time to coordinate with modern European social policy and the rapid changes brought about by the fourth industrial revolution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Maraveya, close, I said, finish!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u48	Give him time, Mr President! Now he's got to the point!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u49	He's just got to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u50	In expressing the great majority of Greek society, the New Democracy supports the government's work bill and reformist effort. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u51	So listen, until the Step is cleared, first, from today and tomorrow, two days before tomorrow, there is molecular control - I say it so that colleagues and workers can hear it, although they will have been informed - so whoever wants it, in the first place. Secondly, because it is 100% certain that no rapporteur will be left in 15 minutes, leave the voices, and there is no way I can blame the second or third. The rapporteurs must understand that there are two hundred Members written. Otherwise, there's no way I'll leave Maraveya nineteen minutes and cut yours at fifteen. Don't shout, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u52	You should give him more time!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u53	And having self-discipline, you don't have the floor. It's still going on, it's not interrupting the procedure. The rapporteur-General has the floor, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I think it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, from the speech - because I cannot say it - that the rapporteur of the New Democracy said that he did not have a single argument to support the bill. In the sixteenth minute he remembered that he should say a few words about the bill. Indicative, if necessary, of his awkwardness. What we have heard is an opposition to the opposition, slandering against the SYRIZA, and I would say, dear colleague of the Complex, that the party that has been charged with the closure of the ERT, with the dismissal of thousands of workers, when Mr Mitsotakis was Minister of Public Administration, has introduced availability and fired civil servants, is the last thing over here to come and become an honourer. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government has declared a lasting war on workers since the first moment after the 2019 elections. He abolished all positive arrangements of the SYRIZA government. And because Mr Maraveyas referred, while he was absent, to my colleague Efi Ahtsoglou, I must say that Efi Ahtsoglou as the Minister of Labour of the Government of SYRIZA was the Minister who, when we came out of the memoranda, managed to restore collective agreements, established a number of very positive contracts on employment rights, was the Minister who, together with the government of SYRIZA, abolished the shameful subordinate wage and increased the minimum wage. What, though, did you as a government? Immediately after the elections you came to release the redundancies, abolishing the good reason for dismissal, abolishing the protection of contract workers, dismissing the APRC and undermining the collective bargaining and contracts. And now, in conditions of pandemic, having used the pandemic itself to further deregulation the labour market, we have seen that you have brought severe wage cuts, a reduction in workers' purchasing power and a generalized job precariousness, because you have exploited precisely the pandemic in order to proceed with this plan of rapid and violent deregulation of the labour market. For this reason, I am presenting in the Minutes the report by the UNHCR on the dramatic impact on workers of the policy implemented by the New Democracy Government. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now with this bill - an abortion, with this reactionary counter-reforming, you come to make the final big attack, to give the final blow to the world of work. You are seeking to institutionalize and even enforce regulations which governments have not dared or been able to bring in. And you know, Minister, as much as you try to do with the constant television shows of monologues every day, as much as you try to do black-white, propaganda, misinformation, you are completely isolated and this has been shown in the House, but above all you are completely isolated in society. Workers are well aware of the cost of life, wages and rights of this bill. That is why they participated racingly and massively last Thursday in the general strike, which we had many years to see in Athens as such massage - perhaps nine years from the second memorandum on labour - but also in all major cities. And they reject your policy. At the same time, you have the majority of bodies across, and the bodies of small and medium-sized enterprises, not only of workers, as well as scientific bodies, such as the Athens Bar Association, which invites you to withdraw it as unacceptable. Of course, you also have an excellent attitude towards the strong communication of the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, which in short says that voting on this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is an institutional regression of the country which comes to broaden the already major and serious disparities at the legal and real level in the workplace. I make the statement from the Union of Judges and Prosecutors. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament is also a trick, Minister, for the bill, as it raises serious issues of incompatibility with the Constitution, which we will discuss later, but also a whole set of legislation. It is, then, a bill that the world realises that it affects the social majority. It affects all workers without social automation and the public and private sectors. It hits young people first and you condemn them in a future of precarious, cheap, elastic work without protection and without rights. But, Minister, you are also hurting the unemployed with this bill because through the neoliberal choice and strategy of intensification of cheap labour you are also reducing new jobs. With an initial assessment, because there will certainly be many studies with adverse results, it will mean a cost of forty thousand new jobs, which will be lost because of this cheap intensification. That is why I am tabling a very detailed study of the Institute for Alternative Policies, which presents the dramatic consequences of this bill for unemployment as well. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Marilissa Xeno-Giannakopoulos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But you are also hitting small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. The President of GATT told you, as when you undermine collective bargaining and contracts you create unfair competition in favour of major economic interests, and that is where you aim when you expand Sunday's work. The same is true of you, as the small and medium-sized enterprises themselves say, when you reduce the wages of workers, you reduce the demand and consumption that is largely directed at small and medium-sized enterprises. The truth, then, is that when you say that you are giving the workers power, because that is what you are constantly saying to us, in practice you are totally weakening them. Why can’t you give strength when you come to establish the individual contract and personalize working relationships. In fact, you have been demolishing a structure built with sacrifices, struggles, and a legal culture for labour law for over a hundred years. Power is given to workers, Minister, to social rights, to collective bargaining, to free trade, to protection of work. What can we expect, ladies and gentlemen? The Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, has repeatedly said that eight hours is outdated as a concept, of course, you are now coming to abolish it, and you are actually abolishing it, by establishing by means of the ten-hour individual contract, the ten-hour work with two hours unpaid work, and indeed, as you have sincerely confessed, workers will be paid for these two hours on a day off, which they will probably receive. Do you give the absolute management right and at the same time what your workers themselves ask is "But well off, will we pay for shopping in the supermarket and cover the bills of our home?" What's your answer, Minister? You can't answer that. All you do is misinformation and opposition to opposition. And it is not enough that you double the cheap overtime, putting at risk and the health and safety of workers, while you are welcomed that you are bringing an international - positive convention - on health and safety, when you know that all the studies on accidents at work are carried out at a shift ceremony, when it is over eight hours, as the World Health Organisation warns. And because you distort all words into the logic of communist propaganda and you think people don't understand why you underestimate it, you put the barbaric title "protective protection". It is clear that the title is "protection of employment". And you also put a subtitle 'protect against redundancies' and come in every way to widen the possibility of redundancies. On the one hand, there is a number of reasons why redundancies are not allowed, but, in a poor way, you put the worker on a legal footing with proof of redundancies and the employer being able to counteract them. You are coming in a way that has no precedent and you are abolishing the last protection of the worker, namely justice. Because today if there is a dismissal of illegal and abusive and is vindicated in court, there is a right to re-entry and all the wages lost with pride. You do not take the reintegration into practice here, and you say 'You will get a remuneration and if the employers can because of financial opportunities, we will see whether you will get it too'. The truth, then, is that you are not just releasing redundancies, which are also the extortion of compliance with the individual contract, but you are getting to the point of elasticating even part-time work. In other words, even in the part-time work of the EUR 400 involving women and young people, you are imposing the waste hours, i.e. two hours in the morning and bringing them back to work in the evening. You say - and that is your main argument - that you bring the digital working card. It's not negative. It's a positive digital working card. The question is: How effective can it be, Minister? First, when you remove all the rules of law, what will you protect with the digital card? Second, it's not panacea. Because the digital card needs to be checked if it is applied properly, and you are downgrading, you are effectively abolishing the OSCE and the Labour Inspectorate. In addition, you open up a large "window" of infringibility by allowing ERGAN to make retrospective corrections by employers. Where, of course, you are giving your roots of extremist and authoritarian neoliberalism is the part of unionism, strike and collective rights of workers. You say that you are modernising trade union law when you are actually abolishing the emblematic N.1264/82 by Andreas Papandreou, who was a law entitled "Democracy of the trade union movement" was the result of struggles and sacrifices of many decades from the Civil War and after the dictatorship. This is where I'd like to stand. Why are you doing this? And why are you saying that this is your proposal for the future? The reality is that you resurrect provisions of Law 330/1976 of the punctual memory of Laskaris. That's the reality. You consider the return to the most black and authoritarian period of your country and your party to be a jump in the future, when the late Laskaris from this Step abolished the struggle of classes and the exploitation of human beings. This is obviously your choice. But of course you have the democratic and social acquis of counter-population. That's the reality. And for Law 330 it had been ten days before BSE in 1976 had asked for the unions' immunity to be stopped. What does it remind us of? In order to dictate BSE and today's bill. Unfortunately, history repeats itself in a black way, but you are stigmatizing, Minister, and, unfortunately, it is a matter of you and the country at the moment. So you come here to bring a horrendous and unconstitutional blow - we will be talking later - because the manipulation of the unions is not modernisation. It is not modernisation when the trade unions are prosecuted and threatened for the first time after decades and the respective protection committee is abolished. It is not under any circumstances that modernising legislation on self-determination, which is a constitutional right, on the labour unions and on how to operate and, in particular, to impose electronic voting on strikes without any safeguards. And you know that very well, and the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament says that it is an open system for manipulation, both from employers and from the personal data of workers, and an autonomous provision is laid down to make it an illegal strike if the provisions you put forward concerning the possibility of electronic and remote voting on the issues of the strike are not complied with. The soul of collective movement is exactly the physical presence, it is the general assembly, it is the movement itself and the way it acts collectively, claim and negotiate. That's what you want to hit. At the same time, bring in a number of other arrangements. You're introducing the concept of psychological violence, a concept of vagueness with which, even if it's with a duke, a trade unionist at the entrance of a factory, when the strike takes place, you can blame him for psychological violence. In fact, instead of protecting, as the Constitution requires, the right to strike, you here are protecting the strike. That's the reality. And enter the provision, exterior and intimidating and dissuasive for workers, not to be traded with the well-known "civil compensation" of employers on these matters. And you're going further. There is a preventive ban on the right of strike, namely that secondary and tertiary unions cannot strike, for the same reason that for a primary union the strike was deemed illegal. While you know that today 90% of strikes are illegal, it will be extremely difficult to strike with this bill. You are also suspending the strike when there is a public dialogue. In essence, you are suspending the strike to act as a lever when negotiating to ensure workers' rights. Why are you doing all this? Why are you bringing such a bill that is currently affecting the world of work and the social majority? The answer is triple. First of all, because it is the subject of BSE, and it is the checks you serve second, as I said before, it is your heart to destroy the democratic and social acquis of post-population, as you did with the law on meetings and demonstrations, and with the law on universities. However, there is a more serious reason, more dangerously, that this bill, ladies and gentlemen, is the vehicle of a neoliberal extremist policy to turn Greece into a special economic zone within the European Union with cheap elastic work, without trade, without rights, without protection. Your pursuit is unacceptable and reactive, because there cannot be any relaunching of the economy and no sustainable recovery unless you support workers, incomes, their rights, collective autonomy and their negotiations. That is why this decision on the country is fatal, but it is at the same time absolutely reactive. We, ladies and gentlemen, are voting against this bill. We ask you, even now, to withdraw it. Above all, however, the Greek people itself are voting against it. The workers are also voting against it, something that they showed with the great strike Thursday. They have already voted against it and it is not legitimised in public opinion and conscience. It is a bill, which will in practice be cancelled by the labour movement. That's for sure. It is a bill that, when we have the people's mandate, we will officially abolish it in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u55	Clear the Step, please. The special speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr George Mulkiotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. In the committees, ladies and gentlemen, we have said that there was a staggering nervousness on the part of the government in relation to the bill under discussion. Today, after the rapporteur's position, the government's nervousness in relation to the bill is evident. She is obvious because she realizes that she has not convinced the world. She's very obvious, because the day before yesterday she saw that the world and society reacted. We have seen that the world has not given up, as the dominant narrative wants. Young people claim a life with prospects. Society is looking for something better, certainly a better future. We also note that it was the first day of a new dynamic. Ladies and gentlemen, the government majority with one mouth, with one voice - to say it - by reference to the draft legislation under discussion reproduces a non paper whose basic elements refer to a distorted reality. He is talking about protecting work, but unfortunately he is cut off from the day-to-day reality. He claims it is time to adopt practices in other European countries, when the countries of Europe are moving on to new and different reforms. I'll tell you something. "Great turbulence, wonderful state," a East leader said more than seventy years ago. With this in mind, therefore, the Mitsotakis Government, with the labour bill, claims to break down the old antiquated status of the labour market, which causes shocks, concerns, protests and therefore turmoil by creating, however, a wonderful situation is an opportunity to unleash something nice, that is, a world, in its view, with growth, prosperity, modernisation etc. It is, however, unknown if those who say it believe in it, in the context of a delusion that is swelling every day. What the citizens see and experience today, regardless of what the government thinks, is a great turbulence, but without a wonderful situation. On the contrary, yes. In short, opposition is reacting to the anti-government, literally, reforms that are being promoted. For a week, he raises key questions which remain unanswered, because the government is determined to change the working landscape at all costs in order to satisfy and fulfil promises and, of course, to satisfy the long-term wishes of BSE and, of course, other commitments. And the sad conclusion is - because it is regrettable - that we are, unfortunately, living in parallel worlds. What if the world, outside society, collapses, the government is fascinated by the changes these neoliberal policies have made, adopts them fully and, of course, scans them all. It is being made available for social dialogue, but also for serious arguments. It designs and consults itself only, without any plans to create conditions for decent work and healthy entrepreneurship, without any care for young people, intergenerational solidarity, but also the modern contract imposed by the conditions of the future, with an aggressive rhetoric, with monologies and certainly distortion of these data and the consequences of its legislation. Ladies and gentlemen, thirteen data are just a few features for the bill under discussion. Firstly, this legislation is disastrous, not only for the world of work, but also for growth itself. As all research has shown, growth based on a continuous reduction in labour costs, in addition to a obsolete and conservative model, is a failed productive and economic model. At the moment in our country, 39% of the labour force is being paid below the minimum wage and is being below the limits of absolute and relative poverty on the basis of international definitions. 17% works with extended hours, i.e. over forty-eight hours a week, when the corresponding European average is 8%, while 33% works on weekends with a European average of 20%. Moreover, only 20% of workers are covered by collective agreements, when the European recommendation in the Member States is for 70%. In this context, therefore, the government legislates the social and economic framework. This piece of legislation will therefore be judged by history, and society is already judging it. Secondly, the legislation leads to an increase in unemployment. The scientific studies show that potential losses will reach at least thirty-eight thousand full-time jobs, thereby raising the rate of unemployment by one unit. And we ask: does the Ministry think that this is a good policy for the country, which, at the very least, has the highest unemployment rate in Europe? Third theme: Legislation radically overthrows the concept of working hours and, obviously, leads to a loss of income. Overtime is abolished and the employer, in essence, will have a full right to regulate as he wishes in working time, that is, half the working life. Do you disagree? I don't think so. If you disagree, ask the supermarket workers today! - which this week are working from 7.00 a.m. to 22.30 a.m. Fourthly, this legislation embodies the country by increasing social inequalities. Fifthly, with individual negotiation against collective bargaining, the basic principles of labour law are overthrown. In fact, under the pretext of supposed individual freedom, the worker is treated as equal to the employer - and let us also know from the classic principles of labour law, taught in universities and developed precisely and without many courtesy - to regulate a completely unequal relationship between the definition of a strong employer and the definition of a powerless worker. This is how the labour law process develops. In other words, a new legal mechanism for the most powerful has been established in this bill. Sixth presumption: Changes the role of the State with regard to the protection of workers, as the APR is transformed into an independent authority. The government reveals itself and dismantles all the public administration's control mechanisms. With this provision, the finishing state of Gerapitri is beginning to plunge away. I would remind you of No 4622/2019, Article 111, for the ultimate state. The government then justified the downgrading of the AAR's special secretariat at a general address, saying in the explanatory statement that it was intended - you heard! - to strengthen administrative control bodies to carry out their tasks without political intervention. So the government comes in and undoes what Mr Gerapititi's final state of affairs had said two years ago. And what does it say? It's tearing out the hands. He's making Pontius Pilate. "I don't want to have anything to do with the labour relations and the supervision of the AAR." Why? Hear the excuse in the explanatory statement: Submission of the APRC to the service hierarchy of its Ministry significantly removes the presumption of credibility and objectivity and gives the impression that the auditing activity, to a large extent, is not dictated by the real needs for the control of compliance with labour and insurance legislation. Others, therefore, in October 2019 and others today on the same subject, for the EIA. So the government does not care that it violates the 81/1947 International Labour Convention, which we have ratified since 1955 as a country and is in danger of being condemned again by the International Labour Organisation in the event of appeals - as was the case in 1997 for the EIC when it was in the prefectural government and then, in compliance with the Greek State to the ILO, to the services of the Ministry of Labour. I am, of course, surprised that the Minister, as far as the APR is concerned, is creating an independent authority. He was responsible - I would remind you - for the responsibility, with the previous agency he had at the Ministry, for environmental inspectors. And environmental inspectors from a special secretariat were downgraded and served by the Ministry of the similar. They, however, have so far not become an independent authority. I don't know how the Minister judged. He didn't have time or no one asked or had another view. Seventh preamble: It commits not only this bill but also all subsequent ones, as it has set the arrangements of the bill as obligations to be fulfilled by the country as a matter of urgency so that the resources of the Recovery Fund can be released with pandemic. Eighth preamble: This legislation is unregulated in favour of employers, clearly disturbing social democracy. Collective rights, the exercise of trade liberties, the rights arising from collective bargaining are key mechanisms for democratisation in the country. The bill, however, thus returns to a competitive capitalism, which the state protects capital and the worker has to go through on his own. Ninth point: This legislation abolishes the insurance margins of Article 7 of Law No.3846/2010, but also of Article 42 of Law No.3986/2011 - and I mention them very specifically - the collective agreement with the operational or sectoral trade union organisation. The legislator of Law 3846/2010, PASOK, that is, in very difficult times, though lenders and BSE were pressing unbearablely, did not want the flexible working time to be attempted unilaterally by the employer, nor by an individual contract, because the worker's negotiating position is surely and always powerless. In this law, the worker is subject to the labour market. The reorganization of working time produces a pattern of employees constantly available, but also adaptive to any needs of the firm and its changes. Working time and leisure time are completely indiscriminate but, at the same time, permeable. The 11th preamble: Changes in working time arrangement, Sunday holidays, overtime etc. were not enough, it seems, to end the world of work and it was decided to give the charismatic shot by effectively abolishing the emblematic No.1264/1982. Thus, the collective autonomy of the trade unions and the right to trade union rights, as enshrined in the Constitution, are limited by regulations. However, the protection of trade unions is limited, too, to bureaucratic obstacles that will put formal obstacles to the process of collective bargaining and, in any case, make the strike, according to the bill, a letter without a recipient. Twelfth preamble: This legislation promotes misleading provisions. While we are talking, for example, about democracy at work, it greatly strengthens the management right. Secondly, while allegedly ratifying international health and safety conventions, it also introduces other provisions that abolish these rights or do not concern them. Can I give you a characteristic example? The ratification of the International Labour Organisation Convention against Sexual Harassment at Work - indeed, the bill - applies only to the private sector and we are talking about businesses of more than twenty people. Truly, in the rest of the business, in the under-20s, is there not such harassment? What position do we take and what does the government say about it? The same applies to paternity leave, the same applies to the six-month leave of the OAED, as defined in Article 142 of Law No.3655/2008 of the Petroleum Act, for workers with an indefinite or fixed term of service in the public or in the OTAs. It's not covered! That is why we have tabled an amendment to this effect. I hope the Ministry will take it into account. These cases are not covered. Thirteenth presumption: Reproducing the digital working card in an absolute tool for control and regulation of the labour market. Let me remind you, of course, here, to the Minister and to the majority, that this digital working card law was introduced by PASOK in 2011, when the New Democracy voted against it at that time. At the same time, the Qualified Opposition voted against. Ten years ago, he didn't know or he didn't want it. Today he wants to. Of course - without wanting to make the devil's plea - I hope and hope that the digital card will not have the fate of digital pensions, that is to say, what we say 'with a click', which pensioners are still waiting for. This is the reality, ladies and gentlemen, of the Coupling and it is a long way from your understanding of the needs of the world of work. It has been decided - I repeat - that the bill and has been rejected by Greek society. It will, of course, also be judged in practice later on, because the only criterion of truth is the act. And the truth is that with the arrangements you bring, the quality of life of the workers rather than improving, it will get worse. Their consequences will be a trick for those of the workers. And, of course, we are witnessing the extreme flexibility of work, the liberalisation of redundancies, the stigmatisation of collective bargaining and the abstraction of strike. In an alibi of the so-called modernization of legislation, the conquests of workers resulting from their claims and struggles are now being levelled. It is not a wooden word, the word 'equivalent'. They are literally leveled. We have made the remarks on several occasions in committee. The Minister has chosen to react spasmically, but without giving any substantial answers to the questions. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by saying this: it is clear that the New Democracy, through these unacceptable provisions which it proposes, is attempting, by serving its pre-election and post-election support interests, to change the working landscape dramatically. The government has now exceeded its limits of self - admiration and self - pity for its work. That is why with a great deal of impulse, but without mentioning today's reforms, it paves the way for increasing inequality and antisystemic beliefs, because cynicism and indifference about people's living conditions always have political consequences, and this government will find them in front of it. So the regulation of the bill is a socio-economic challenge, also with this working uncertainty, but also with income insecurity of what this will mean for our society. The Government's insistence on introducing a specific working, economic and insurance reality with more flexible working time, less income, but also a lower level of pensions will certainly expand the dismantling of labour relations. We now, as a Change Movement, commit ourselves to the Greek society and especially to the young people for whom the government with this legislation prescribes a grim, uglinessful future and drives them away from the place and thus further strengthen the Brain Drain that, when political connections allow it - and they will allow it - this monstrous project will be abolished immediately. It will be the first of these works and the days of the government. We owe this to young people, we owe it to our children, we owe it to society, and we commit ourselves to that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u57	Me too, Mr. Comrade. The special speaker will now be given the floor from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Christos Katsotis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. The incomplete, lying about the JRC's attack on the class union movement shows panic and fear in front of the indignation and anger of the majority of the workers for the billed abortion and the fights they strengthen. The rabies attack on the JRC is expected, because it is in the front line, because it informs and mobilizes the working class. We are not going to respond to the ridiculousness and slander of the Kassian type. We and the workers will continue with greater stubbornness. The glass will drink it to the end of the day. At the grand strike gatherings throughout Greece on June 10, the workers spoke and said that this bill is a roadmap for their lives and for their family's lives, it's for garbage. The great success of the strike, the anger that is raging, the decision to escalate the struggles terrified and frightened business groups, government and capital parties. Therefore, after the strike, well-paid tubers began to deceive and intensify the effort against workers by hitting class trade unions. We're telling you the workers won't back off. They will overcome every obstacle, they will continue to fight against the billing abortion to defend their lives and their children. Ladies and gentlemen, in these conditions of rapid progress in science and technology that take off labour productivity, which creates an unsatisfactory wealth from the labour force's labour force, modern and progressive is to satisfy demands, such as: stable daily working time by reducing working hours, seven hours, five hours, thirty-five hours, free collective bargaining without any involvement of the state, collective agreements with increases in wages and the protection of rights, the protection of the health and safety of workers with the responsibility of the state and of business groups, the safeguarding of the free and fair action of trade unions and trade unions as a whole against state industrial intervention and repression. Obstacle to satisfying all of this is capitalist growth, which is the only criterion of profit. This has served especially recently all the Memorandum Laws of all PASOK, New Democracy and SYRIZA Governments. This served the measures taken for the pandemic. This project serves the Pissaridis project, as well as the Recovery Fund. The bill is the first prerequisite for the disbursement of the Recovery Fund agreed by all the other powers to fund monopolistic and business groups, which will be paid by the working people. This bill is the first account. Each article gives off class hatred against workers' organization, races, their rights. Each article fulfils the demands of employers as far as they have not been satisfied. It hits the heart, the constant daily time, the eighth hour, the greatest conquerion of the working class. It is the result of classic hard conflicts that often resulted in a bloodbath of workers from capitalists' bracelets and the destructive mechanisms of his state, the police and the army. It is a monstrous bill, turns into working and living conditions of the nineteenth century, while the wealth created is unblemished and the productivity of work has taken off. It is a bill hostile, barbaric at the expense of life not only of the worker, but of the whole of his family. He puts a brothel in the life of millions of workers. How much they work, how much they are paid, how restful they will be determined by the individual agreement of each individual worker with the employer. In order to cover all of this, the Government has given rise to the ratification of the conventions, to the hundreds of ninety and others, to prevent and combat violence and harassment at the workplace that it allegedly ensures the right of every individual to a world of work without violence and harassment. The Minister wondered, "But what are you going to do in these 54 articles?" Really, Minister, isn't the blackmailing of the teleworking mother working with a waste of time in the morning, on the basis of the group's needs? Isn't it violence the dismissals of pregnant women who are under contract for a few months? Is it not violence forcing women on childbirth leave to attend online seminars only twenty days after birth? Isn't that violence when a commercial employee can't plan her life? When she's looking for a Sunday to find a young girl getting married on the basis of the schedule that she's given her the mall for the month? Isn't redundancies, hundreds of thousands of unemployed? Isn't it violence the non-payment of hired, gifts, licenses? There is no more hypocrisy than you claim when all governments have so far legislated the working jungle over time and with this bill the repetition of working time is generalised. It's the management right to take off. With the provisions of the bill, you have the employer himself to ensure, by hypocritically speaking, the conditions for preventing and combating violence. Violence is being exercised by the exploiter to the exploiter. Governments support, support exploiters with new weapons of violence and exploitation intensity. Working people's families are in front of new major overturns in the conditions of pay and work that will worsen their living conditions. The Government claims to introduce the best practices of the member countries of the European Union. Yes, these are the best practices: the intensity of workers' exploitation to increase the competitiveness of capital profitability. The bill overturns working time, the constant daily time, hits trade unions, abolishes trade union freedoms, legislates the break off working hours by increasing the daily working time immediately in half an hour, abolishes the eighth, legislates the tenth hour. The settlement of working time by PASOK law in 2011 maintained it by SYRIZA and extended it to hospital doctors with 12 hours and the employees of OSE with nine-hour hours is now being completed by New Democracy. A new provision stipulates that the arrangement will be determined by individual employee agreement - employer. It asserts the employer, weakens the worker further, cuts him off from the collective claim. Working time on the basis of the bill will be determined by the needs of the company, subject to the management right. If anyone so far worked as overtime at two hours to raise their wages, he will now be paid off or overtime in another period. The day before yesterday, Minister, I don't know if you saw it, outside the ministry, you were thrown 50 instead of 50 euros, which you're not buying with. You tell workers that you keep the eighth hour and the employers in the tenth hour. You're telling the truth to the employers. You are setting up parttime working with interrupted hours in the morning - afternoon and additional work and morning and afternoon. Mothers at the supermarket or the student you're supposed to be interested in combining professional and family life with work will be all day on the street. In the name of this facility, all twists were made, elastic forms of work were generalized. These are still invoking today. The overtime from three hours per week is five hours for the five-day and six hours for the six-day period at a fee of only 20% extra. Increase legal overtime to a hundred and fifty hours a year or three hours a day with an additional fee of 60% to 40%. So the daily working time becomes 12 hours. You are generalizing the work on Sundays, confusing the lives of workers who work seven days, but also of the self-employed who cannot stand and will be forced to close very quickly. You legalize teleworking, you establish remoteness throughout the 24 hours for the worker. You understand what conditions are created for the teleworker. You remove any stimulus to redundancies, the right to re-entry and to pay late payments. Even your own Member tells you that this is one of the unheard of, and yet you do. With an additional minor allowance, the employer will be relieved from the worker and from all other consequences. For all cases where workers are protected against redundancies, the burden of proof is laid down to be shared, but first the worker is called upon to prove that an unjust dismissal is possible. Make arrangements for their platforms, deliveries. But by the provisions of their employment it is defined as self-employment rather than as a dependent employment relationship with the result - you are moving the head, but that is the way - the workers are deprived of all those who have won the working class and still exist. You maintain the one-year trial period of two months that was to pay compensation in the event of dismissal and with a lot of hypocrisy you claim to abolish the distinction between employees and workers in the bill. In fact, the Prime Minister told us that he met a request for years of the JRC. But when the other one in one year is fired and is not entitled to compensation, and according to ELSTAT's figures, recruitment is the same as redundancies, then why? The bill strikes trade unions above all because in order to be able to pass all this, it requires a movement on the plaster. It interferes with their function. It gives weapons for greater and more effective intervention by employers and state. He's putting new obstacles to the right to strike. Persons' associations are strengthened and suspended in trade unions. A group of people that can be made with five members can sign a collective agreement, while when the workplace makes a meeting the job to decide for a strike should be 50% plus one. In other words, in a business of 20 people to be eleven, but with five he can sign what the employer wants. This is what you are doing with the bill, you are strengthening the weapons of the employer, the associations of people, as you did in 2013, where they entered before them to reduce their wages and labour rights horizontally. You create in the Ministry of Labour the mock-up mechanism, the General Register of Trade Unions for Workers. It is a mechanism that will be at the service of employers to be able to intervene and to be exempt at any time from anyone who raises a head and claims. You shield this mechanism with the mandatory provision of registration, otherwise it will not have legal personality, it will not be able to declare a strike, it will not have the right to intervene in the workplace, it will not be legitimate to sign collective agreements, it will not protect the trade unions. You think that's how you'll stop class struggle. There have also been others before you, Mr Hatzidakis, who have tried to abolish the class struggle by raising barriers but have not succeeded. Legislation on the compulsory adaptation of the statutes to the rules allowing remote participation and vote by hitting the trade union's livelihoods. Because that is what you are interested in, that there is no such general assembly, that there is a lively function where the workers present their views, their positions, they are dialogue, confrontation, conflict, and at the end they decide and try to implement this decision to claim what they decide. This is what you want to alter, check the decisions of the general assemblies and alter the association of powers with the electronic vote. If the employer can at any time tell the worker "see, now vote, make a like not on strike". "Move him because he's consensual," to be in the club. "Declar him because he's a good boy" to represent the employees in the federation or GFCM. This is the aim of all these adjustments you make to the bill. You limit the possibility of unions to inform workers. What do you think? It will determine where they will inform their unions of an agreement between employees and an employer of the place where the communication will be shared in the outdoors and in the areas where they will eat. Democracy stops at factory gates. So it restricts this possibility. On the grid of strike arrangements, which complements and strengthens the other, raises new parallel obstacles. It puts forward new difficulties in deciding to declare a strike. It provides, as we have said, for the remote participation and the electronic vote of 50% plus one of the financially active members. In other words, a person who does not take part, as we have said, in the assembly to listen, may but without knowing what has been done to vote electronically for the strike. With the argument of protecting work, you are protecting the strike and you are criminalizing the guarding of the strike. It is predicted that the strike is declared illegal in the event of the exercise of psychological violence. Like what can be termed as such? Can't the union's presence be characterized on the day of the strike outside the workplace with a duke calling on the workers to take part in the request strike one, two, three? Can it not be described as the communication which will call on the workers and which will be shared by union representatives? In this case, therefore, the strike will be declared illegal and the club's board of directors will have civil responsibility. The employer is going to appeal to the union to eliminate it financially. This is progress, this is modernising your bill. It prevents the proclamation of a strike by secondary and tertiary bodies in case the strike declared by the primary association has been unlawful. You want all over the place to shield the employer. It provides for the minimum guaranteed service in 1/3 of the service in sectors of general interest during the strike. So there's no strike at all. You just want a bracelet to be symbolic about the workers' strike. If a union is in the process of demanding a strike decision, then the employer may, as provided for in the bill, have recourse to the SDR for a dialogue. The bill says that in this case the strike is interrupted. So from a thousand sides here you're protecting the strike, you're hitting the strike. Repeal Article 15 of Law 1264/1982 on the protection of cooperatives. You say the trade unions have privileges. The privileges have been enjoyed by your own, those who have sat on the neck of the working class for years and through the logic of social society, compromise and subjection to this policy are backing it through. Such privileges do not have class trade unions persecuted every day. And now what are you bringing? In order to get through all this, you can make it even more difficult for anyone who comes in front of it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u59	Mr. Comrade, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are permanently permanently setting the minimum wage by the Minister and effectively abolishing collective agreements. Remove the APRD, create the Independent Labour Inspectorate, fully dependent on its capital and needs, which will effectively implement all the anti-virtual framework that has been legislated. The workers who have so far appealed to the Labour Inspectorate and who have found a point, are now going to the Tripartite Cooperation Institutions. The working class, gentlemen, will not compromise with modern slavery. He'll fight, he'll bleed, but in the end he'll win. This is what you fear and want to extend the life of this barbaric, the rotten exploitation system, shielding the dictatorship of capital, criminalizing the struggles. The working class will overcome any difficulty, any obstacle to its organization, with its struggles for its own needs. This is a one-way for the vast majority of the workers, the populaces, their children, who are crushing their rights, their needs and their dreams. In this way the JRC gives all its powers and calls on the workers, regardless of whether they agree with him, to join the struggle for the lives they deserve. We are voting against the bill and we ask that it be withdrawn even now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u61	Mrs Maria Athanasios will now be given the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the recent health crisis, but much more the financial crisis, have left their prints indelibly on the labour market in our country. The economic turbulence has exploded unemployment at very high levels, above 27%, and even today we have the highest rates of unemployment, 16%, with real unemployment estimated much higher. In young people and the long-term unemployed these rates are much larger, creating conditions of polarization between the layers of society. Unfortunately, the economic crisis that we experienced as a country led many Greeks to seek opportunities abroad and especially young people with degrees, while those who remained are not rewarded for their potential. Seeing in the title of this draft law the provision of equilibrium measures between professional and private life, we thought that the proposed arrangements would be of an improvement nature, that we would take a step forward. But, to our great surprise, we have seen, by reading the contents of the articles, that we are going a great deal of backwards and that, at the end of the day, the word of equilibrium should go into introductory terms so as to indicate your alleged and supposed intention. This is because the majority of the provisions of the present are inconsistent with the objectives of neither the Greek family nor the Greek economy and will create more problems for the proper functioning of the labour market. Following the mistaken choices of the total bans you have imposed to curb the pandemic and which are expected to bring many padlocks to the market, thus causing many people to unemployment to be particularly affected by our young people, you are bringing to the vote a draft law that, instead of healing and contributing to economic growth, will further affect the many Greek families, and once again we stress that the need to change the production model is imperative. Minister, it is tragic that the economic situation in which most Greek households have come after the ten-year economic crisis, which has hit most economic sectors and has led many young soccer Greeks on the road to immigration. The situation was attacked by the health crisis which came immediately afterwards without leaving a breath on the already affected, on the one hand, who expected some hope for recovery. You know, of course, that many businesses after your unnecessary lockdown have not yet been opened. You know, of course, that a large proportion of these businesses will never be reopened, and therefore many of our fellow citizens will end up former entrepreneurs and former workers. Consider how many families will stay - in quotes - 'on the road' and how many of them are at age just before retirement cannot be recruited because of their advanced age, nor can they buy insurance time that cannot afford to withstand the cost of buying. Inside this nightmare you found a reasonable opportunity to liberate first home auctions, although you gave nine months of extension to serve obviously 'day' interests, leaving our fellow citizens even more exposed. These include former entrepreneurs and former workers in the previous paragraph. Instead of protecting them and being charitable, instead of helping them out of debts, for which in many cases your own policies are responsible, you are, on the contrary, leaving the introductorys out of the phrase and giving this the literal meaning. You take their homes and leave them on the road. The extension or any kind of prolongation is not a solution. The Greek Solution has put forward proposals for you. Indeed, gentlemen, it puts us in a very great deal of trouble, yet we still find it suspicious that the timescale of the liberalisation of first home auctions is at hand. Even more suspicious ones make us feel that you have not been hit by the conditions of the pandemic, so that you can give a relief to the borrowers. None of this touched you. How did you lighten up and strengthen your business and family? Not at all. You are unsatisfactory in the process of demolition of the Greek middle class, which in one night is at risk of being without income and without a roof. The new bankruptcy law comes to seal your intentions to stay without shelter many of our fellow citizens and without work. It is expected that a bill will contain provisions that can be assessed as more or less favourable, as positive or negative. But this time you've overcome yourself. The Minister himself, in his speech at the second meeting in a reversal of his speech, asked the opposition with which wrath we will vote against the fifty-three of the thirty-three articles containing positive provisions. That is, Minister, only fifty and three of the thirty articles in your confession contain positive provisions. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] What are the provisions contained in the remaining sevens? Negative. You yourself drive our thoughts there. We are supplementing the question of the Minister with the result of the removal he has made. With what heart, then, as Greek citizens, to vote in favour of the other seventy articles which you yourself, Minister, excluded from being positive. And I explain: The new employment bill affects young people, because it comes to mortgage their future and condemning them to a constant job insecurity with reduced wages, with unstable hours and low ambitions, while at the same time giving no incentive to repatriate our children, who have been unsettled, most of them, against their will. It is worth mentioning that you are bringing the ratification of two international conventions and of a European directive along with the labour law, and you have incorporated them, you have put them in this bill as a front in order to have an excuse. You have done so dozens of times, including advantageous contracts for our country with provisions of bills that we are vertically opposed to the result, to be forced to vote against. Why are you bringing everything together? This draft law does not take into account the real needs of companies or the current needs of workers. It significantly reduces the organisation of the operation of the company and makes use of flexible and modern employment patterns in part and in such cases as are contrary to European and international standards, as well as to the practices of other developed countries. The bill seeks to ensure the maximum flexibility of the employer by abolishing the collective labour agreement and strengthening the individual at a time when unemployment is high and the worker's negotiating position is bad, as the representative of the ADED said the day before yesterday. It is a bill that leaves the overwhelmingly more dissatisfied, has many ambiguities and is now blatantly affected by collective agreements. It is, as has been said by the relevant bodies, the tomb of collectiveness and the strengthening of individuality, exposing the worker - family, parent, worker - free at the disposal of each employer. In particular, despite the assurances of the Minister for Labour to convince the opposition parties and the workers that eight hours are not abolished, it is certain that this will not apply in practice. The two hours of work, which will of course be voluntary under the threat of a possible dismissal, will reduce the worker's free time and employment with his family. When the weekend becomes five hours, even with a familiar will of the worker, who is supposed to have the same power as the employer, do you really believe that? - that really leads to a work relationship jungle. The worker will be a worker - a tyre who will not know the working hours of his work, which will cause him enormous confusion and a problem in his family planning. The Government is not prepared for real dialogue. She consults and legislates herself, without her interest in a wider social consensus. Do we really wonder how unemployment will be reduced and how employment conditions will be improved? The unemployment rate is particularly high, black work is uncontrolled, and job-related infringements are growing. Clearly the legislation to be passed contains positive elements. In particular, with regard to the ratification of the 190 Convention of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment at work, this is one of the general principles which concern the elimination of violence and harassment in the world of work, which each state must adopt. Clearly, it is a good thing that all forms of violence in the workplace and in the workplace are eliminated, and clearly it is a good thing that all appropriate measures are taken to eliminate all forms of violence. However, Article 6 of the Convention mentions more vulnerable groups or groups in precarious situations, which are disproportionately affected by violence and harassment in the world of work. We hope that you do not refer indirectly to illegal immigrants, who will be protected, while Greek birds have been driven abroad. We ask, Minister, for immediate clarification. With regard to Article 5 of Part Two, the wording on the prevention and prevention of violent behaviour by the employer is clearly a positive regulation, but there is a risk of vagueness by the administrative bodies. Let us not forget the positive provisions of Articles 34, such as extension of maternity leave, the adoption of Article 35, which provides for authorisation to submit to methods of medically assisted reproduction for working mothers subjected to medically assisted reproduction methods. This is a painful and special process, but also a very expensive one. Here the state should bear the costs to the Greek women, having a demographic problem, Minister. Let us not overlook Article 36 for the extension of special maternity protection to the adoption of a six-month leave following the birth leave and the mother that it adopts. However, it should be stressed that the negative elements of the legislation, which expose most of the working population, are overwhelmingly exaggerated. In particular, given our demographic issue, tell us how you promote the balance between working life and how you facilitate families, when Article 55 introduces flexible working hours, the implementation of 10 hours of work, and indeed overtime unpaid, keeping parents away from their children for most of the day? Did you create supportive structures so that children will not grow up alone or have computer games and television together? Or the existence of grandpa and grandma solved the matter? What if they don't exist? With such rewards, how will they pay an assistant? Here is the dilemma of regression for women: Work or motherhood? How do you really support the woman with the multiple roles in the family and most of her responsibilities, which she naturally assumes? So the demographic, at least the Greek, is not the imported one. On the contrary, as we have already pointed out, in relation to Article 57 on the provision of additional work by part-time workers, new data are primarily affecting our mothers and young people. What do you encourage our young people to return to our homeland? You are giving benefits to illegal immigrants for their smooth integration into our country. With the current provisions you create such conditions that promote equal opportunities in equality and tolerance for vulnerable groups. What actions have you taken to protect the Greek family for the equilibrium in the everyday life of its members? It is necessary to abolish the global originality of the unilaterally imposed by the overworking employer and to define as overtime the overtime fixed in order to ensure that overtime is done only exceptionally, when, in fact, there are exceptional, unforeseen and urgent needs rather than in order to circumvent the worker's working rights. It is imperative that this be exceeded as overtime. The same article refers to the additional work of parttime employees. This provision should be abolished for overtime overtime even with an increase of only 12%. In our country, where implied work in productive sectors is a typical phenomenon, especially in young people, this provision can have the exact opposite effects with dispersed working hours for low-wage workers. In addition, the increase in the overtime ceiling to a hundred fifty per year from one hundred twenty hours per year for services and ninety - six hours per year for industry does not move in the right direction. This provision does not help to reduce unemployment, but encourages businesses with existing staff to meet increased demand. Article 58: Remuneration overtime, elasticization of working time. Nor should it be unilaterally attempted by the employer, nor should it be left to the parties to the individual contract of employment and to the weak negotiating position of the worker. Article 65: Exemption from the obligation to provide employment following the forwarding of a complaint. It seeks to abolish the protectionist provisions of the Labour Law on redundancies and violates the worker's right to maintain his job. This provision facilitates redundancies and even at an extremely difficult time for the labour market and society, because of the pandemic crisis. Subsequently, how do you support families when under Article 63 and the exceptions to compulsory rest on Sundays and holidays, are you expanding the professional categories that can work on Sundays and other holidays? You put an indirect end to the traditional Sunday table and family life and coexistence. How far should our habits be altered? Imagine what would happen if Israel abolished Saturday’s holiday! It is also noteworthy that you prefer alternative ways of living beyond the traditional marriage, giving the same rights, if not more incentives, to people who choose the conveniences of a pact from the responsibilities of a lifelong marriage. After denying the responsibility for marriage, how does the state claim the benefits of family and family ties? Specifically, in Article 26, in the chapter incorporating Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament on the working and private life balance for parents and caregivers, a relative is also defined as a cohabitant with a cohabitation agreement. Why is the government assimilating spouses to members of a pact, a company in fact, which only claims benefits because they live together, refusing to assume further responsibilities and commit themselves to one another? Already, many consider marriage unnecessary, since ordinary partners have the same, if not more rights than married ones. You also facilitate, if not encourage, in this way to conclude virtual cohabitation agreements, since you provide as many privileges as, for example, permits, such as for the sake of a marriage permit, Article 39. Really, what wedding? The one who refuses the licence? Also facilities for partners with a cohabitation agreement. Also, what substantial protection do you give the parent worker, when you introduce facilitative parental leave, but which will be obtained provided that it will suit the company? In addition, how will the worker claim them knowing that by returning it can be placed in the same or equivalent position at best, as defined in Article 28? Answer us, Minister, how do you facilitate parents with children of LEI, when with Article 41 you are right to give them the possibility of reduced working hours on the one hand, but at the same time, you also anticipate the corresponding reduction in their wages? Have you considered the enormous difficulties, even of mere survival, which will come from these unexplained cuts, instead of particularly strengthening parents with young children? And I'm talking about material and moral support, which they need. Why you should know that the daily life of such a parent is so hard, without any break or rest, that few people can withstand. In addition, tell us which limits laid down in Articles 31, 67, 72 for the implementation of teleworking to ensure a time-limit which allows the closure of the computer and not endless hours of work from home. Ladies and gentlemen, measures such as those proposed, in the unclear and vague way that have been formulated, do not promote any equilibrium, unfortunately do not favour either the families or the workers and therefore do not lead to a substantial recovery, since it is directly integrated into social justice. Therefore, you do not seem to wish to invest in the social state. You do not have as your main aim the well-being of the individual and society. Even the health workers, the heroes of the pandemic, as you call them, are mocked by your Government. We read in REAL NEWS on 6-6-2021 that health care programmes will be carried out by the Ministry of Health through the NSRF of seven and a half million euros for stress management and rehabilitation and enhancement of doctors, nurses and workers in the NSH after the fifteen-month battle they fought because of the pandemic. They are programmes from which all your "lower" stakeholders will ultimately benefit. Instead, take care, at last, that their wages are again decent and equal to their long-term studies and their high level of fighting in our public hospitals. And be sure that as doctors and other healthcare personnel they have the knowledge to get to the specialist and manage their work anxiety, when and when they judge it themselves. Before you move on to the vote on this, it is appalling to most of it for society, a bill, to improve any contradictory provision contained in it, to lay down precise frameworks that guarantee equality and promote the interests of workers. Listen to the people who are protesting, because they feel unsafe in their everyday lives, seeing all that they thought had been overthrown in a moment. Above all, create the conditions for individual and work security in our country, for strengthening the Greek family and for the long-standing repatriation of our children from abroad, which the policies and hostile behavior of the state of the previous years led them to hostility. Don't repeat the mistakes of the past. The Greek Solution votes not at first. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Athanasios. Mr. Maria Apatzidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that there are people who are dependent on their wages. It is the phrase of the Prime Minister of Greece, at the beginning of November 2020. It refers to those who do not live from family property or politically relinquish the state and set up dynasties of power. It refers to the great, the vast majority of the Greek people, who are dependent on their wages. We have a rehab bill in front of us. Repeal of the Sunday holiday for more and more slaves. Installation of 10 hours of work. Overtime to death. Individual employment contracts. Compulsory working hours for parttime workers, as the employer wishes. Improve redundancies entitled 'Protection against redundancies', protection of the employer, obviously. Essentially dismantling the trade union which is the elementary defence of workers against the arbitrary and illiteracy of the employer, rather than what is being snatched by the DPRK and ONNED on what trade unions are. Obstruction of the strike, the last line of defence of workers, which constitutes an essential ban on the strike. What about the Constitution? Just a name on a square. Repeal of the Labour Inspectorate and conversion to an independent authority. And we all know what that means after a decade of monuments. More and more. There is so much to be said about, one to one, as we did in committee. We have before us the latest law of the previous memoranda and the first of the following. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not true that our bill goes back to the Middle Ages, that it sets up medieval labour relations. As shown by a series of studies by Juliet Sore, Gregory Clarke, Nora Richie, the working relationship in the Middle Ages was much better than the ones described today by Mr. Hatzidakis, Superman, Troika, the labour bill of eternal masticism. Our government is turning to the industrial revolution, when people were slaves in the production chain, before the blood races for elementary labour rights that are being abolished today. Of course, it seems from the title of the draft law - a mixer that puts together on the roadmap of labour sanctions and the incorporation of a directive, there are also positive elements in the mixer, for example, against domestic discrimination at work. In other words, Mr. Hatzidakis comes with carrots and whip. The problem is, the carrot is extremely small and the whip is really huge. Let us not worry that the government will be voting in favour of its carrots against civil discrimination and so on. But whips are the thing. The continuing undermining of any employment right, the continuing impairment of any power that has been left to the worker against his employer will continue for as long as the country is in the memorandum, forever, in the austerity without end, in prison - debt, to what we have called briefly, in short, 'debtorland'. So it was and will be as long as the country remains in its completely suicidal commitments, starting from the first memorandum and thanks to the grand exit from Mr. Tsipras' memorials in 2018, a row by 2060, as was the time limit before the pandemic that is still evolving emerges. In other words, before the pandemic, we knew that the signed memorandum will always mean a constant deterioration in the situation of workers and a number of related legislations, and how much more so now that we are still waiting for the account of a coronary that is not over. As much as Mr. Mitsotakis is trying to hide the coming underneath the carpet of midwife, who has succeeded authoritarianly, bribing journalism with the various lists of Petsa, the Civic Antipolitics as a Memorandum Partner and most of the journalism in discourse or governmental dominance, the whole weight of critical control of power has fallen into Elasson Anti-Policy, but we are lifting it up and lifting it up. The fact that the government is well aware of what it brings to the vote, that its MPs are aware of what will be co-responsible also appears to be the foreign and multiple defensive line chosen in the public debate. One, a New Democracy spokesman on the channels talks about a bill that just brings some minor changes. On the other hand, a representative of the New Democracy is on the canals and declares that we are finally demolishing a castle built by the Left for decades. Which one on the left? The New Democracy? PASOK? SYRIZA? LIAS? That is, the ones who ruled the country. On the other hand, another New Democracy MEP says the bill brings power to the worker. This absolute Babel, of course, is a different pluralist pluralism within the New Democracy party itself only happens when someone has their nest and knows it. And since we're talking about gilt nests, let's say this. The bill is based on a logic that the employer and the worker have equal bargaining power, so that they can make rational decisions between themselves for their common interest and benefit, with the State restriction being unnecessary. Good! In other words, a worker is also an adult who sits on a table and is equal. Perhaps - because I do not see the New Democracy MEP - this is true in cases of government MPs who, at the same time and at the same time, work in channels of a particular minority. They may find them there fine, fine with the employer. However, they are certainly not prevented by political disagreements. But this is just not happening in the real world. Of course, such a perception can only have it or anyone who has no idea about the world of work or who consciously and cynically takes the part of the job everywhere and always, so no matter why, on the spot, wants to give it a white cheque for any arbitraryness. So what do we have to do with it? With total ignorance and lack of contact with reality or conscious guilt and automation? The great achievement of this bill, the great achievement of the New Democracy is that both are happening at the same time. On the one hand, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is responsible for the bill. How irony! This is mostly anti-social cases. Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis, or Superman of the Troika. The issue is absolutely political and no personal. Unlike the vast majority of the Greek people, Mr Hatzidakis knows the world of work in the same way as we know countries and fantasies, reading a novel or watching a movie. Short CV of the Minister. Adult, IDU - IDU, New Democracy Civil Planning Secretariat, presiding ONL, immediately after a Member of the European Parliament, once again a Member of the European Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament, a Member of the European Parliament, a Minister, a new Minister, again Minister and now a Minister for Labour, to give us the results of his experience of how labour relations need to evolve in that country. These issues, as I have said before, are absolutely political issues and the Greek people must discuss them as such, which the Memorandum of SYRIZA has unfortunately thrown into your arms, so that you can today say that we are legislating things that we have promised beforehand. You may ask addicted to the tactics of the new two-party internet basements "and who are you to tell us on thirty-one that you have work experiences". I'm talking to you with work experience in the private sector as an employee. I am here to represent exactly this world, the world that struggles for a living. The world of work and OFS. I have not come to move the finger on the workers, having shifted one life from one side to the other has been unleashed political position. And I am well aware of my experience as a worker for eleven years in the private sector as to what the worker's negotiating power towards his employer is. That is exactly what the bill ignores both unreliable and deceived. I've heard "My Mary, if you don't like the terms, you can leave." It's the most common expression from employers' lips. "If you don't like it, they're waiting for a hundred others out there." And here there is another vulgarity of Maximos' papers to unfortunate government MPs, the terrible argument: but that is the reality. This is what happens anyway, some just refuse to see reality. Rather, the government has confused its role. The Government has, among other things, the constitutional obligation and responsibility to safeguard a number of guidelines of the Constitution on labour, on freedom of trade, on insurance, and so on. When these basic rights are challenged by some, the work of the government and the state is to preserve them, to defend them, and not to make their cancellation a law of the state. If that's the case, let's go legislate. Because here, behind the scorching, we see the effective cancellation. The role and task of the government is not to formalise and institutionalise arbitrary, unless we have understood something wrong. So, if, like, the Greek mafia has successes, and she's doing well, will we recognize her as permanent and bring a bill on that? But I forgot, here we have the Minister, Mr Chrysochide, on the days of which almost every day there are shots at clearing the basement's accounts on streets and squares. We're back on the subject. On the one hand, the authors of the draft law do indeed have the same relationship with the world of work and the conditions that I have with the latest developments in nuclear physics. None. On the other hand, there's a vulgar. We all know that there are interests in politics, in the sense that any political act that produces any change is in the interest of someone and against the interests of others, by definition. Today, few people want to serve the interests of the Greek people, the vast majority of them, the working, but also the unemployed people, the people who suffer the austerity in their lives and are today strung against Elassonian opposition, because, against what the scroller of the Minister of Labour and Anti-Social Affairs brings, they are not enough, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the good and left-wing intentions if you have already given the memorial credentials that give birth and will unfortunately give birth to such bills. This, however, which we denounce as Mera25 as the country's toxic and parasitic oligarchy, also has interests to serve and happily, for her and unfortunately, for all of us, it has found a particularly good political staff, from the divestment of the country, the Greek and casinos, the general sales to the last stripping of the worker, against the ambiguity of arbitraryness, these interests must become laws of the Greek state. And so we come to today. In a bill submitted, as it is also presented because of obvious ignorance about the world of work and because of obvious dolphins to serve toxic, parasitic oligarchy, for which the working people are a consumable host. A poisonous bill with various carrots for garnish and a youth at the altar, whether it has set bows abroad or is about to put it on. However, I am sure that there are some Members of the government with patriotic feelings, people who do not want to be co-responsible at the ditching of every next generation, who do not want to be co-responsible for the young people of this country, even more workers than they are after a decade of memorial service, who realize that toys with terms of work, such as attempting to abolish the strikes, the minimal defence of the worker in violent arbitrariness, the substantial disappearance of Sunday holidays, and so on, are going to make the lives of the majority, especially of young people. I am sure that the number of Members who are aware of a number of issues is sufficient to ensure that this bill by Mr Hatzidakis does not collect the required majority, does not become a state law. But, even if it is not enough for the fate of this place to avoid it, let them know, at least, that on the next day of the bill, young citizens may no longer have employment rights, but they will have memory and electoral rights. However, we also have the new Greek immigrants abroad who are now unable to come back. Anyone who does not have the sensitivity to the future of this country in order to mobilise, at least, let him have the electoral fear in his region. Let them, at least, be afraid of their next meeting with the metropolitan of their constituency, since they are effectively abolishing their vote on Sunday's holiday. That's something. Whatever's for the best! Whatever it is not to be a law of the state. The last nail in the work coffin. Colleagues of the New Democracy, I urge you not to be co-responsible. Don't be accomplices! You do not owe the future of the country and your political future to either the heir of a political dynasty or the Minister for Labour with the zero marks. If you cooperate with the request, the Greek people will never forget it. I remind you, after eleven years of desert and disrepute, your resignation has ruled for a short time from 2004 to 2009. Then you got 18% and then they had to tighten up the memoirs to see God face again. And yes, there will be new memos coming back after the pandemic, but now you've got better competitors in the Civic Anti-Civilisation. They apply them more quickly, more efficiently and with better marketing. Fellows of the New Democracy, do not choose to return to oblivion forever. It's up to you to save yourself. Vote against this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, as a citizen from the world of paid employment, I can assure you that this bill must die and if it is voted on by the government, the people must pay it off on a permanent day off on a permanent basis, let the representatives of the parliamentary majority not be afraid of it. You can go collect olives or have more time with your family. Is that not what Mr Hatzidakis suggests to young people in a pan-Hellenic and television broadcast? But I forgot, telling the truth is populism. We're from another class, Mr. Hatzidakis. I am voting against your bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have heard, unconstitutional objections have been raised both by SYRIZA and by the Communist Party of Greece. As is well known, one of the objectors will speak as sayings. They have said, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou from SYRIZA and Mr Giokas from the Communist Party of Greece. Is Mr. Bugas gonna be?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u66	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u67	Good. Members will then speak, if they so wish, and the Minister will be closed. Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Hatzidakis' bill is anti-government, authoritarian, anti-democratic and grossly unconstitutional. There are many provisions - we have tabled our memorandum with the objection of unconstitutionalism - which violate the Constitution. Because the Constitution under Article 22 explicitly provides that work is a right and is protected by the state. The same article and paragraph 2 by law defines the general terms of employment supplemented by collective agreements after free negotiations. Trade union freedom and the right to strike are fundamental rights of workers protected by Article 23(1) of the Constitution. What violates and what provisions of this anti - law bill? First of all, Article 58 establishes the individual employment contract and so collective agreements are excluded and undermined. In addition, Article 68 introduces a negative presumption as regards workers on the platforms in relation to wage-earners. They are arrangements that violate both the principle of the effective negotiation of equality laid down in Article 4(1) of the Constitution and Article 5(1) of the Constitution which protects the freedom of contracts, because there is, of course, no equivalence in the negotiation with an individual contract between the worker and the employer. All these arrangements exclude the collective agreement of employment. Therefore, Article 22(2) of the Constitution, which refers precisely to the safeguarding of collective autonomy, is grossly infringed. Second point. Article 66, which is supposed to be protection against redundancies, is the article which effectively abolishes the law of the complaint. All those provisions that protected the worker from abuse and unlawful redundancies are limited. In other words, since it would be entitled by the court, it could be re-entered and receive late payment. Here we have a clear violation of Articles 26 of the Constitution and 20 of the Constitution as regards the principle of separation of functions, i.e. in relation to the involvement of the legislator in judicial power, because the legislator intervenes in the judiciary and the right to legal protection. Furthermore, the same article on the release of redundancies provides that a request containing an additional compensation cannot be cumulated to recognise the invalidity of the complaint and the occurrence of the legal consequences of invalidity if the two claims are based on the same historical and legal basis. It is a point which the report by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament points out, namely that the prohibition on cumulation of supplementary claims, which are not contradictory, of which the main concerns the recognition of the nullity of the termination of the contract of employment, is incompatible with the right to legal protection in respect of the main request. So we have a violation of Article 20 of the Constitution. We are going to Articles 82 and 83 and the compulsory registration of workers' unions in the famous General Register of Trade Unions. This is where the core of rights is affected. Mr President, I ask for your understanding, because there are too many of them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u69	I'm not interrupting you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u70	Thank you. Here, ladies and gentlemen, the core of the rights that protect the Constitution is affected in Articles 22(2) and 23(1) and (2). It is a question of State intervention in the process of establishing a trade union organisation and of laying down the conditions for the practice of trade union activity which jeopardises the existence of the trade union organisation itself. Articles 86 and 87, which introduces electronic remote voting as an obligation for associations. The statutes of unions, ladies and gentlemen, relate to an expression of autonomy, which is guaranteed both by the general right of the Constitution, the right of association, which is Article 12, and by the freedom of trade, Article 23(1), much more so that the report of the Scientific Committee of the Parliament itself states that there is no guarantee of the secrecy of the vote, the possibility - it says in the report of the Committee - of employers to intervene and, of course, to pressure the personal data of workers. The core of the trade union freedom is the internal autonomy of trade unions and the right to self-employed persons, which is being violated here. At the core, too, of the trade union freedom is the free formation of a collective will of members of a general assembly through the physical presence and the live consultation, as is the case in Parliament, which is being violated here. There is also a separate reason, in addition to all others, for a strike to be declared illegal. Article 88(10). This article abolishes the protection of protected trade unionists against dismissal and abolishes the protection committee concerned. There is an infringement of Article 23 of the Constitution to defend trade union freedom. And now we're going to the clearest violation of everyone. Articles 91, 93, 94 and 95, which actually make the right to strike a blank letter. Here we have a violation of the hard core of the rights of the Constitution, Article 23(2), which protects the right to strike. And here too, it is being violated by procedural reasons for a strike to be declared illegal, by the obligation of the trade unions to strike, when the Constitution puts a presumption in favour of labour, of course, and not in favour of the strike, when we have the exercise, according to the provisions, of psychological violence, which we have shown before all the speakers of the opposition, because it is a concept of general and vague, which in fact comes to frustrate and provoke persecution against the trade unions, the introduction of exterminated civil liability for compensation for the trade unions and the members of the administration. We have a suspension of the right to strike, if there is a negotiation, but, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of the constitutional right is that the strike is a lever for the negotiations. At the same time, we have also for the first time a preventative strike ban, as it is forbidden for secondary and tertiary unions to declare a strike for the same reasons or similar primary strikes, i.e. a primary union, which was declared illegal. I am going to read because I think it is worth it, because we are really on the hard core of rights, what the Union of Judges and Prosecutors says: Articles 91, 93 and 95 put even more burdens and legislative restrictions on the constitutional right to strike, which is now empty in content, since the existing restrictions - without this bill that no longer leaves any margin, I add - 90% of the strikes do not meet the strict requirements of the law. Articles 96, 98 and 99 infringe Article 22(2) of the collective autonomy. The new regulation leads to the sole jurisdiction of the Court of First Instance a number of issues which may arise on the part of both workers and employers and, until the final decision has been adopted, negotiations are frozen and collective labour contracts are suspended. So we have here a complete violation of Article 22(2) of the Constitution for collective autonomy. The same article provides that if the terms of a previous collective agreement have not been codified, they do not apply. This is, as we all understand, a complete violation of collective autonomy and collective bargaining. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding, with the articles from 122 to 125 concerning the conversion of the EGF, the abolition of the EGF into an independent authority. Here we have a substantial dismantling of the EIC. And I would like to point out that under Article 22(1) of the Constitution, the State has a direct responsibility to protect the right to work. And where the Constitution recognises responsibility to the State in order to protect a constitutional right, it cannot transfer that competence, in fact, to waive that responsibility without having a constitutional procedure in place. In other words, in order to do this, as was done for the Personal Data Protection Authority, I would remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that there was a revision of the Constitution in 2001 in order to get rid of this obligation that it had to protect the right to personal data. Since work, according to the Constitution and Article 22, is an obligation of the state, it is a right that is protected, it cannot, by simple legislative provision of the House, establish such an independent authority. Furthermore - and I am closing down with this - the country's international obligations, namely Article 4(1) of the International Labour Convention 81, which clearly states that the Labour Inspectorate must be under the supervision and control of a central authority. And I would like to remind you of the story that when the present prefectures were founded in our country in the 1990s and then the transfer of responsibility was carried over to the prefecture, there was then an appeal to the International Labour Organisation, who was entitled to the GSEE and there was legislation in which they returned to the Labour Inspectorate. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons, and for this number of flagrant violations of the Constitution, we consider the bill to be unconstitutional, and we call for the objection of unconstitutionality to be accepted and, in total, voted against. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, too. On behalf of the Communist Party, Mr Giokas will support the objection of unconstitutionality. I would only ask the parliamentary representatives of the parties who objected not to repeat the arguments that have already been put forward in order to obtain time. Here, Mr. Gioka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u72	It is such your insistence that you serve the requirements of capital and the directions of the European Union for the smuggling of labour rights that you do not hesitate to make ragged papers on the record even of your Constitution, proving in the end - and we say that not for you, we say it for the workers, for the people who are watching, for the direction to be taken by the struggle and the struggle of today - that even the positive wordings there are in an urban Constitution are nothing but declarations that can be thrown into the basket of the useless to serve the needs of this rotten exploitation system. That's what you do today with this bill. The bill is brutally violating Article 22(2) of the Constitution, which enshrines collective autonomy and collective bargaining and Article 23(1) and (2) which ensures trade union freedom and the right to strike, a right that has already been undermined over all these years by all governments, with the result that nine out of ten strikes are declared illegal and abusive. The arrangements of the bill constitute a single set that adds new major, huge obstacles to the exercise of the trade union rights provided for in Articles 22 and 23 of the Constitution, alongside those already in existence by the legislation of the former governments of New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA. I remind you of the laws on the abolition of collective agreements, the 2012 ministerial decision that made it the responsibility of the Minister of Labour to define the minimum wage - a ministerial decision of 2012 that became the law of SYRIZA - and also the SYRIZA strike law on the strike in primary unions. The new obstacles posed by the actual criminalisation of the strike, by the Electronic Register of Trade Unions, by the persecution of trade union officials of a double nature, by the persecution of either the dismissal for a major reason - as you say - or in the form of civil liability, if these workers are going to defend the decision on a strike, by suspending the negotiations, by bringing an action against an arbitration decision, by preventing the strike, i.e. by abolishing the possibility for secondary or higher institutions to support the decision to strike a primary organisation, by the staff of a minimum guaranteed presence and by the individual agreement on working hours, all of this and many others are weakening to the disappearance of the workers' negotiating position - even the one that existed and was conquered with Mr. 12641882 and transform the relationship between an employer and an employer into a mere private difference. This is the great incision that is taking place today in Labour Law. We are no longer talking about collective bargaining, as guaranteed by Article 22, we are talking about a fixed game with all weapons on the part of the employer, only - balances in favour of employers, 'Korea I win, you lose'. In particular, Article 83 on the registration of trade unions: the registration of trade unions in the Electronic Register is a prerequisite for exercising constitutional rights, such as collective bargaining, the signing of a collective agreement, the declaration of strike. Despite the fact that today there is strict judicial control of the trade union movement by the creation of trade unions, from the operation of the antiquities, despite the fact that there is the internal control of the organs of the trade union movement itself by their own members, you also add the register, an extensive electronic file of trade unions and trade unions in the hands of the State and the employer, and that is what you consider as a precondition for the exercise of constitutionally guaranteed rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude. What does that mean? It means that a company of anonymous shareholders and public limited shares will be able to take whatever measures it wants against workers, but a worker who wants to resist these measures must be kept on the record of life. That's what you're doing! Electronic voting undermines the living process and the functioning of general meetings. The general assemblies of trade unions are organs, they are collective bodies, they are not platforms and social media, Minister. It's not that kind of thing. They are instruments where workers participate collectively, collectively, decide, collectively confront and make their decisions. In the SYRIZA Struggle Law you therefore add electronic voting, which means a constitutionally guaranteed right to be called into question even for technical reasons. At a legitimate general meeting, where the decision is taken in the quorum, a secret ballot shall take place, the decision may be held only by the absence of the network’s failure. Protection of the right to work: by means of the new regulation, the trade union organization which declares a strike must protect the right of workers who do not participate in the strike, that is to say, the strike and provide it with no hindrance and, in particular, without the exercise of physical and psychological violence. Under this arrangement, the trade union organization becomes accountable for acts by third parties and even provocatives, with the consequences of the strike right being catastrophic. Insert objective responsibility. And what other bill did you do this to? You did it in the convention for meetings. That is, pioneer workers, trade unions will be dragged into the courts, morally and economically exterminated because they have entered before to safeguard their right to strike. Articles 94 and 95: Exercise of the right to strike as long as negotiations and public dialogue are in progress. While with Article 95 for security staff and minimum guaranteed service staff you are actually turning strikes into a symbolic act for these sites, you are even violating Article 23 of the Constitution for these enterprises - a negative provision in the Constitution - which says that restrictions cannot reach the end of the right to strike or prevent their legitimate exercise. By Articles 96 to 99, legal matters may arise for arbitral decisions and the validity of signed collective labour agreements may be suspended. In other words, there is a flagrant violation of Article 22(2) which protects collective autonomy as it deprives workers of collective regulation of the conditions of pay and work. I conclude with Articles 59 and 63, settlement and exceptions of compulsory rest on Sundays and holiday days. Article 22 of the Constitution stipulates that the general terms of employment supplemented by collective agreements concluded with free negotiations are laid down by law. Now next to the minimum wage - already laid down by a decision of the Minister of Labour - and the issues of working hours and working time will be excluded from collective bargaining and collective agreements. And what will still be left to define collective bargaining and collective agreements, when the two main issues, minimum wages and working hours can be determined either by decision of the Minister or by an individual contract? I conclude by saying: these days there have been great reactions - and rightly so - for a conference, Minister, for a conference of darkness, various traders in assisted reproduction, supposedly on the issue of infertility with a guest of half the Ministerial Council, various celebrities, grandparents and so on. So how is family life, motherhood, children who are supposed to protect Article 21 of the Constitution when the limits between family and working life are abolished when free time is abolished, even when flexible part-time work is elastic and when Sunday holidays are abolished? What does that prove? They prove not only the anti-government nature of the bill - that is for granted and they recognize it - but they demonstrate the hypocrisy of your democracy that we are talking about a raw, cynical and uncovered dictatorship of capital. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u73	Thank you too, Mr. Gioka. On behalf of the ombudsmen, please beg Mr. Bougas from New Democracy to take the time for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it tends to become a parliamentary custom to plead on the part of the Opposition of anti-constitutionalism before discussing important bills. And it is a parliamentary custom because - I think - none of the parties, which have put forward objections to anti-constitutionalism, have been able to defend their objections. After all, the Scientific Service of the Parliament in a report of fifty-nine pages doesn't glimpse about the unconstitutionality of any of the provisions of the bill. As for the remarks made by the Union of Judges and Prosecutors, I think they are more political than scientific. Mr President, I will need more time than five minutes, because I have to respond to the objections of unconstitutionalism as a whole. So, as I begin to reply to the specific articles that are supposed to be unconstitutional in the bill, I must, ladies and gentlemen, remind you of a constitutional principle, the principle of the formal equivalence of constitutional provisions. This means that no constitutional good has taken precedence over another constitutional good. Although the strike is protected, work is also protected. Freedom of trade is protected, but the development of personality and economic life is also protected. This should not be forgotten and you should be aware of the systematic interpretation of the provisions of the Constitution when we talk about constitutionality or otherwise. I am now starting to answer one in the articles. Article 83 raises the objection of anti-constitutionality because it cannot, in the view of the Opposition, be conditional on the exercise of trade union rights by the registration in the general register. However, ladies and gentlemen, you are forgetting that under existing law, Law No 1264/1982, trade unions are to be registered in the book of the union. Why is that happening? Because it is a prerequisite for the trade unions to have legal personality in accordance with Article 83. So what do we replace? Substituting the first instance book to the general register. Consider: Something like that doesn't work with GEMH? Does anyone claim there is a problem of constitutionality in the provision, which provides for companies to be registered in the GFCM in order to acquire legal personality? And, of course, updating the data is a process that needs to be done for workers, for the state, for the trade unions, for a clear picture of the members and the mode of operation. The protection of trade unions is a basic obligation for the state, and this obligation is in keeping with the provision on which you object to unconstitutionality. I come to Articles 86 and 87 to provide for the possibility of participation in the general meeting at a distance. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, if you read this provision carefully, the workers of divorcing bodies are entitled, that is to say, either to participate in a physical presence or to choose their remote participation in the vote or in the process of the general assembly. So freedom is granted to the worker. He chooses. He has the right to either take part in person or vote remotely. What does the union have to do? The self-evident thing is to ensure that, in the event of remote participation, the ballot is inconsistent. In other words, the association is responsible, as must be done, for ensuring the greatest possible participation of its members, and this participation is without physical or psychological violence, which, unfortunately, is happening. In the debate, specific examples have been mentioned in the committee, but I do not want to take up time to repeat them. We are going to Article 53 to ban psychological violence on those who wish to work. The opposition focuses on paragraph 1 of Article 93, assuming that it is too much and unconstitutional to ban psychological violence against workers who want to work because - I have heard speakers claim - the notion of psychological violence cannot be determined. So if the members of the administration of a union tell the worker who wants to work: "You'll see what happens to you. We'll show you. You'll find it in front of you what you do, it's a "grey zone" during the counterpopulation and...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u75	When the employer says so, isn't it violence? Then it's love?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u76	Please don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u77	You, ladies and gentlemen, are undermining your argument. Don't do that! You are undermining your own argument. Listen to the reasoning, as I have heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u78	The sayings have been heard, the opposite and the parliamentary representatives will be heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u79	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the concept of psychological violence is a concept that is rightly not defined in law, but is left to the case law of the courts and there is a dubious case law of the Greek courts on the concept of psychological violence. It is therefore left to the courts to determine. Also, if you look at the relevant case law, you will see the legal variability, regarding simple inducement, intense inducement or psychological violence. So this, in our legal world, in the law of Greek, has already been clarified. Moreover, this provision of the draft law, which you refer to, is essentially in line with the content and spirit of Article 22(1), which establishes the right to work. I would remind you of the provision: 'Work is a right and is protected by the State'. It also responds to the provision of Article 5(1) and it must be remembered every time you object to anti-constitutionalism. "Everyone has the right to freely develop his or her personality and to participate in the country's social, economic and political life." So he has the right and the one you call "worker" to work. Smugglers, ladies and gentlemen of the Left, are the ones who are paid to strike, not those who exercise their right to work. You should finally clarify the terms and define them conceptually.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u80	Sophia big.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u81	When the coaches come with the strikers, don't they get paid?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u82	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u83	It is very interesting to dialogue with the Left on these concepts, but unfortunately, time is vague. You also say that the provision in Article 95 is unconstitutional, when a primary business or sectoral trade union organisation declares a strike, this strike is judged by a court ruling illegally and after that, the secondary or higher organization comes to "decide", reopening the same day, at the same time, the strike. What does the Opposition tell us about her objection? It tells us that by this provision we are restricting - as a matter of fact - the right of a secondary or higher trade union organisation to declare a strike. It is not possible - it says - to limit this right because of formal omissions. "Typically" omissions are based on two essential conditions for proclamation of the strike. One condition is that the strike is not declared by the general assembly as required by law, or by the majority of the employees and that the deadline laid down by law is not complied with. These are characterised as typical conditions. If colleagues were to bother to look at the caselaw of the courts before they testify to their objection, they would find that the courts consider these conditions to be public policy rules, i.e. rules and principles of moral political and state-of-the-art governing the country's livelihood. I have, Mr President - and I will table it in the Minutes - two recent rulings by Greek courts. It is the 892/2019 of the Court of Appeal of Thessaloniki and the 258 of the Court of Appeal of Piraeus. I make these two decisions in the Minutes, because they are safe, that is, they are not formal conditions, but they are conditions - I repeat - in public order. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Bougas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If anyone wanted to come closer to constitutionality, ladies and gentlemen, the current regulation, which enables the secondary or tertiary organization to adopt and reintroduce a strike with the one recommended by the bill, would say that problematic and unconstitutional provisions are probably the current provision, because a secondary or tertiary trade union organisation is allowed to abolish, in essence, a court ruling which has been issued. In other words, the legal consequences of a judicial decision with the involvement of trade unions are overthrown. Mr President, on Article 95, on the minimum guaranteed service, it is suggested that the setting of a minimum guaranteed service, in essence, abolishes the right to strike. But let's see what Article 23 of the Constitution says? It says that the right to strike civil servants and staff of any type of public or public service undertakings which are essential to the basic needs of the social group is subject to the specific limitations laid down by the law. In other words, the common legislature is left to impose restrictions on the non-use of the right to strike. The draft law, therefore, stipulates, on the basis of this constitutional provision, that the provision of 1/3 provided service should be ensured when it comes to serving basic needs of the social system. This percentage may be reduced according to a ministerial decision. This is a percentage which, in common experience, ensures an elementary service to the basic needs of the social system, but without effectively abolishing the right to strike. And here, what is the legislator actually doing? It comes to create a balance between the exercise of the right and the abuse of the right. It cannot - and cannot - by the constitutional requirement of Article 25 - be a right, such as that of the strike, to turn against the social system as a whole in general and to ensure that the minimum conditions for the functioning of social and economic life are not guaranteed. You should once get rid of these stereotypes. Finally, Mr President, I come to articles 102 et seq. of the bill. Opposition raises with objections of unconstitutionality that the provisions on the independence of the Labour Inspectorate are in breach of Article 22 of the Constitution. This objection does not have the slightest legal basis. It is based on the erroneous view that the independent authorities, without legal personality such as the ADI or the National Transparency Authority, do not constitute a State, are not public. This, ladies and gentlemen, has already been answered by a 2014 SYRIZA law. I remind you it's L.4270/2014, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u84	Look at it a little...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u85	I'm sorry. I'll take it back. It has therefore been answered by law. It's not SYRIZA's. But, ladies and gentlemen, you have allowed this law to come into force as long as you govern. So you cannot complain, for you too are responsible for omission. Therefore, to return to what I was saying, it is Law 4270/2014, which defines the public sector in Article 14(1), stating that central administration or public state includes the Presidency of the Republic, ministries and decentralised administrations, as well as independent authorities which do not have legal personality, such as the principle established by the draft law. After all, this principle before the courts, since it has no legal personality, should you be aware that it is represented and represented by the Legal Board of the State. Therefore, there is nothing wrong with this provision. There is the provision of the law, which I mentioned before, which stipulates that it is a state. So we have no constitutional opposition, as you have shown it. There is a recent decision - because I always want to have references to case law when I speak of objections of unconstitutionality - of the plenary session of the Council of State. It's number one. 698/2020 which says exactly what I just said. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Bougas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Finally, Mr President, because I want to respond to the objections of Article 66 of the SYRIZA, we are told that it is unconstitutional because there is no possibility of cumulation of the request for the annulment of the complaint with the request for the payment of the wages provided for, in the cases provided for by the law, in order not to repeat them. Here, there is absolutely no unconstitutionality. For the completeness - I repeat - of the position and the answer, I must also mention the reservation of the Scientific Office of the Parliament. However, the Scientific Service does not refer to unconstitutionality. He's probably talking about the procedural correctness of the application. Let's see things technically, so we can answer and if there's any unconstitutionalism. What can a worker do? A worker can bring an action to the court. And what can he say about his lawsuit? He may claim either that he has been fired for the reasons that so far apply and that he has been re-elected or, in addition, that: "If the court acknowledges that I have not been fired for the reasons I am referring to the main basis of the action, it may be recognised that I was fired on grounds relating to the provisions of the draft law referred to in Article 66. For this reason, I ask that three late pay be paid for." But that is quite legitimate. The worker himself has made his choice. And here too, subsidiarity is not forbidden. Subsidiarity is only forbidden when we have the same historical and legal basis for treatment. Therefore, not only is there no problem of unconstitutionality, but I would say that the provision of Article 66 is legally correct because it provides for the rights of the plaintiff and the defendant in such a way that they are considered to be procedurally correct. Unfortunately, time does not allow me more to develop arguments for the constitutionality of the provisions. In conclusion, however, I would like to say, ladies and gentlemen, that you cannot hide behind allegedly unconstitutional objections to the bill. You are obliged to take a clear position on the substance of the provisions. You're not judged by state-owned union here. You are judged by the workers with their real needs and they also judge you... [[Noise in the Chamber]] ...and society. You'll answer to her! [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr President, I would ask that the objections to anti-constitutionalism put forward by SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece be rejected as unfounded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much. Parliamentary representatives will now be speaking. We'll start at the smaller party and go to the biggest. But if a parliamentarian is in a hurry, it can be proposed. But we are used to going from the smaller parties to the larger ones. The show, of course, changes. Of course. It's not forbidden. Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u87	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, in our opinion, there is no doubt that the abolition of Sunday holidays for ever more and more branches... Second, you'll tell me this. So let's take things in turn. The provisions of the bill you bring to the vote, Mr Hatzidakis, today - and not you - the government 'Metsotakis Kyriakos S.A.' brings it - are, in our opinion, being circumvented, directly, securely, the country's Constitution as regards individual contracts of employment, which are something unprecedented for all of Europe, as regards the rights of trade union freedom and strike, which are being circumvented and the strike becomes such a difficult thing to reach the limits of the impossibility, as regards the abolition of the Labour Inspectorate through its conversion to a so-called independent authority, such an independent authority that all of its board will be designated by executives of your ministries, as regards the provisions relating to the divided compulsory working hours for parttime workers as well as whenever their employer so wishs, in a vast part of your bill. Look, Mr President, with regard to the objections to the unconstitutionalism of the Communist Party of Greece and SYRIZA, we have to say: it is clear that the whole of this bill is based on a fundamental, in our view, completely ideological position, a position, in fact, promoted as inexistently, the famous position in favour of competitiveness. Competitiveness is everything for the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy. First of all, this is a concept which, of course, wants capital, that is, the interests of the employer - and we must not be misunderstood, not of any kind, but of any kind of employer, not of the micromagazer, but of the large - to be respected and preceded by the interests of the workers. The well-being of capital, that is, takes precedence over the well-being of people. This is, in one word, your infamous competitiveness. This is what, Mr President, we believe, further strengthens the New Democracy of Mr Mitsotakis with this bill. It breaks down labour rights on the basis of alleged competitiveness, the employer gains huge and much more rights than workers whose rights are being curtailed. The right to strike is enshrined, so work is liquidated and no constitutional requirements are finally abolished. Mr President, therefore, we as a PART25 are voting in favour of all objections to unconstitutionalism. However, we want to remind the late honourers of constitutional legitimacy - I am not hiding behind my finger, I mean the Civic Anti-Civilisation, which, incidentally, has been the government of the third and fourth Memorandum - as we vote for your proposal on unconstitutionalism, the following: dear ex-constitutional partners, the ideological dogma of competitiveness that is today stumbling our Constitution, is not coming now, nor was it born yesterday with this draft law, but it runs every word of the memorials that have been voted on since 2010 until today, to be explained. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr Gregoriadis, and respect for the time. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, an ancient saying is simply a gart of the truth. I mean, you don't have to say a lot of things about obvious things. They don't need words, words, words, or eating our time in here. And because we respect the procedure and because we will close here three days, I will be very brief, Mr President. Who are the eyewitnesses? First of all, this is a bill of abortion. There is no doubt about that. You know, Mr Hatzidakis, when a doctor ended their creation - you may have seen the work, read the book, I don't know - Frankenstein said, "I created a monster". This really is a bill - monster, with various pieces right and left, and the result is monstrous. I'm afraid we won't see in practice, in its application. I won't go into details. I will only say one thing about the New Democracy, because that is what has been touched very much - and your voters must hear it - your party's DNA, because, Minister, we are all talking about it. A lot of devices, everything. One thing, however: This is the first time since the New Democracy was paid, since the Liberal Party of New Democracy has abolished collective agreements. This is a huge issue and conflicts with your ideology in general. Let's go down. Secondly, it is a matter of extreme political exploitation by the parties on the left. You know, we feel at times that in society there are some issues for which a party is agitated. You think others don't have the right to talk about them. That's a left matter. What's here? That's right. There's no right, left issues. There's a logic. And when we are invading political logic, we should at some point agree on the parties. Question: What will the Greek solution do to the opposition to anti-constitutionalism of the Communist Party and SYRIZA? I am sure - and we're sure, because you proved it in practice - that, on the four occasions that the Greek solution of unconstitutionalism, despite the fact that you agreed, you did not vote in favour. Hey, don't hurt anything if you come with us! As if you go with logic sometimes, you'll get something. When are we going to overcome these political and ideological strangles? We will be saying 'yes' and this time. And sometimes we've said. And we have the political bravery and the courage to admit it. We will say 'yes'. But when we objected to an unconstitutional objection to the ratification of the Agreement with Italy to establish an EEZ, a reduced influence on our country, you said not all parties. When we objected to anti-constitutionalism for the Agreement with Egypt, which apply the same - reduced influence on our country - you said no. When we objected to anti-constitutionalism against the bankruptcy law, which would throw Greeks out of their homes, and there you said no, while it is reasonable and reasonable what we say. And logical and plausible! You said no. Why? But don't slid behind the Greek Solution. We are neither sliding nor anything. We're sane. And when we made a statement the day before yesterday about anti-constitutionalism against the digital certificate, the Greeks' file, while most of you agreed, you said no again. Well, we can prove to you that we don't have that kind of hindrance. We'll call 'yes' here. But there's got to be a look at it in SYRIZA. That's not what it's called. It should be called "political bipolar syndrome". Look at it a little, 'cause you're forgetting something. I'm not a doctor. Our doctor's there. But I interpret it as political bipolar syndrome. You have ruled. You forget it. You're in a verdict of politics. In other words, in things that you may have voted on yourself, you are now opposed. Listen. Decide. Whether you are workers or are with the employer. Either you're with industrialists or you're with the workers. You're either with the Palestinian handkerchief or you're with the Americans. Or do you have a specific course, for example in the course of the Polytechnic which ends up with the American embassy or ends up in the office of the American embassy. Decide. But since you've ruled and the story first time left will change it all, I'll fix it all, I'll tear it all apart, I'll fix it all there is no longer, so you have to decide. And one last thing. You are a Qualified Opposition. The JRC has its MPs, our MPs. You are Dedicated Opposition. So since you raise this issue so high, so hard, Mr Hatzidakis brings such a bad bill - we do not have the right under Parliament's Rules of Procedure, do it - put a motion of censure against the Minister. And fatten it? Ask for elections. We're asking for elections now! Ask for elections and tell the world here, the Greek citizens to vote, approve the bill yes or no? This is how things are done, not just fireworks, and not just communications policy to tell the essence, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr President. Although we're pitiful and you know that, because we know what happens to the objection of unconstitutionality, we didn't regret it. The conversation was revealing and I wish the workers could see it. Why, what will they understand on the basis of what the rapporteur of the New Democracy said? For the others, I have to say. They will understand that everything that has been regulated over thirty years and more concerning workers' rights is all unconstitutional. Everything was unconstitutional and covering strikes from labour centres and federations and what you said. And constitutional are the new ones. We don't have any illusions. A civil constitution is, of the bourgeoisie, so it guarantees the interests and dictatorship of capital. We never hid that. It's so revealing not only today, all the discussion that's been going on this time is making an eye and people will judge, as they judge from their lives. We also know that whatever the working class and the populace distracts them with hard struggles and bloodys and not to open up the booklets that shot them and killed them like mice when they started and asked for the eighth hour, that they were thrown out of the windows when they disagreed, that they had Long and Theodorou to control the trade union movement. These things youth knows. Did they make it? Oh, no. Did Laskaris, who was the one who said raw that class struggle with Law 330 is being abolished by the most reactionary laws? Oh, no. Life goes on. Secondly, by listening to the argument from the Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy all this time, we have learned nothing else. The BSE crisis has been saying it a thousand eight hundred years now, i.e. I say it too much. Parliamentary Representative of the Association of Greek Industries and employers' organizations, that was the speech. These are said, take them, at the very latest, that the Greek economy and the "poor" shipowners, industrialists, bankers, etc., are destroyed by labour conquests. I'm humiliated! Aren't you embarrassed? With the euro 300 the other guy works at 400, 500 and it's the unions and the workers who are trying to win something that they're running from morning to night, and the others are having a party one night of a million? Isn't that right? Like this. Now you're saying it's the state trade unions' fault, you go to your people. And not only to trade unionists and state-owned professionals who have inside the state, because you blame us for having, but we get eight hundred of our MPs and trade unions. And the army of all the public that you and the others who have ruled pays him the Greek people and pays him badly. Therefore, do not talk about state trade unionists, talk and look at yourself in the mirror for employers’ unionists. Thirdly, it's so raw what you're saying, so cynical that they're incredibly literally. It says the equivalence of rights. That's what the Constitution says. What does that mean? First of all, is there equivalence in life? Is the individual worker you are sending him massively to the employer, and is the industrialist, the banker, the employer? I am not talking about young people, about those who hold 60% of GDP. Oh, no. It's unequal. Who are you defending? It is alleged that these rights are being violated. Good mercy! Mercy that the trade unions and the worker violate the rights of those who suck his blood and who live from it, live from unpaid work. Where does he live from, from his intelligence? Secondly, there cannot be a register of workers. Isn't there today? Isn't he being filed with the courts? Aren't they controlled under the law? What do you want? Name, last name, coronary paper, everything in the ministry register and free to see the employer to know who's organized, who's not. Total freckles. Let me tell you one more thing. Are the shares in the public limited companies all or are they also anonymous about class? Why don't you take them all out to know who's got what and where he got it from? That's where you hide them, isn't it? Whilst workers are being sent north to the employer. Thirdly, I would like some time, Mr President. Psychological violence. Let me tell you now, let me talk more openly. The conquests and rights were not made with flowers, they were made with hard struggles, very hard struggles. And I should also like to address some who are improper. The pioneers fought and the workers followed, but what others won it, and those who were across the street, I'm not saying about the others who are terrified that they are begging for PAME to go outside to find a pretext to strike, because the employer will take them down the next day. Where do you live? Are you going to the factories? You're going to the businessmen. Go see what's going on inside the workplace. Isn't there a psychological violence of the employer? What are you talking about? How many incidents do we have from complaints? Infinitely. Why don't you determine her and punish them? What do you want to do? You want to castrate the trade union movement. Another issue to see the double standards. He says that if the workers' centre declares a strike for a decision that was deemed illegal, it cannot do so. Firstly, in order to legally speak the decision of the labour centre has not been judged by the court, it has been judged by the primary court. But secondly, tell us now when a worker gets fired and goes to court and wins, what happens? You're obliging him to take him back? Oh, no. What are you doing here? Legislative regulation. I mean, she's an eye. You're making a law so that he can't get away with it and if he's dangerous - dangerous to him - and if he's trying to give him something more and get up to leave. That's what you're doing. In other words, you empower this barbarity and then you speak of the same rights. I could say more, but I will go with the crown, Article 22, which is the wording, because the substance is quite different. The general terms of work are defined. Excuse me, are the minimum wages general working conditions and collective agreements, conquests, unhealthy, etc., is the general one? Oh, no. That's what's going on with the collective agreements. In fact, the liberals, the end of hypocrisy, “the man of hypocrisy, the secretary, and Pharisees,” says they are determined by collective labour conventions in the Constitution, concluded with free negotiations. Isn't that what he says? Why does the Minister define the minimum wage? The one that's stuck? Does it break or not the wording of the Constitution? Or have you transferred him to the general terms of work, too? And there's too much else. I shall conclude, Mr President. Are you undermining collective agreements with individual contract or not undermining collective agreements? When you build a group of people, which is the courier with five people that the employer puts on and sign the collective agreement and they commit to the rest of us, what does that do? Doesn't it abolish collective agreements? And the wickedness of the strike. They've all been said and they've become a leaf and a feather. It says, "when it turns against society as a whole," it is the poem. Well, what do you think is a strike? You're going to strike when the employer doesn't have a job? Here there is a hard struggle, opposing interests. You're going to corner him when he's stuck with the employer and the state-employer. But I'm asking you, did any patient ever stay out when he's on strike? Who's cutting the power, PPC? Are the strikers cutting it or do you, that people don't have to pay PPC? Let me say a lot more. You say a command, the seafarers, the teachers, the teachers and the staff were required. When it was and is still the pandemic, why didn't you check private clinics? This has nothing to do with the social group that you were throwing people out of the ITH and dying and the private people from there suffocate and have treasured? So I am ending and thank you, Mr President, and I say that this debate and the policy are revealing to you too. The Brutsi Act became the New Democracy - SYRIZA Act, for it is not a matter of people. You didn't keep him? What are you yelling at? What do you say it's unconstitutional? If you say you had to have the memorials, you went to Ithaca and said we came out of the memorials. And when we tabled an amendment to abolish this operative provision, you did not accept it. Why? Uh, why each one of them is placed. In the words sometimes you are in opposition with the working class and in the government you serve the interests of capital at times.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr Scandalidis has the floor. Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know what you're feeling, but if my friend Thanasis talks, he's dragging you into other thoughts, younger.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u94	It's the lost conscience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u95	Now not to tell you about the employers' dictatorship and the dictatorship of the proletariat and confrontation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u96	Say it. Why don't you say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u97	No, no. I do not want to confront the Communist Party. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said from the outset, and we will do so again on the three-day day of Parliament's work that this bill is neither short-term nor ideologically and politically innocent. It is a targeted work-place intervention, a raw and uncovered attack by the government on the level of labour rights. It is the culmination of the dramatic change in the labour market towards absolute flexibility, the reduction of remuneration, the liberalisation of redundancies, the weakening of collective bargaining and the limitation of the right to trade and strike. It's awkward, Minister, what you're doing with this bill. Through its articles and regulations you are achieving a serial violation of constitutional rights guaranteed and institutionalised in a favoured Western democracy such as democracy in Greece of Postmopolitanism. You are not just changing the emblematic n.1264, which the whole House now remembers with nostalgia of the first government of real change, but you expose him. It is not a continuity and improvement on the basis of modern developments that require changes in trade union law, but you are actually breaking it down, you get it back. Inside, then, from the draft law - I will say a few words about the spirit of the Constitution that is being violated, and the letter I will say afterwards - you are putting a crucial blow to the right to work and to employment which is no longer a choice for the citizen, but for the employer when he can take it away from him at any time and for any arbitrary reason. It is a key blow to the right to collective claim and representation of workers when you remove any possibility of collective bargaining. It is a major blow even to the right of free time management when the organisation of work depends exclusively on the wishes and interests of the company. You are insulting him in other words the right to dignity, decent living and that is criminal and it is in the spirit of the Constitution entirely unconstitutional. I am not a constitutionalist, perhaps I can't say it as one who deals with it would - thank God we had and we have many of them in the House. But also in terms of the strict letter of the Constitution many provisions of the draft law conflict with the country's charter, other directly and other borderlines. In particular, they are not in direct contrast with the social right to work as guaranteed and protected under Article 22 of the Constitution. Our own Constitution, namely, includes work in the hard core of social rights, obliging the state to constantly ensure that the employment conditions of the citizens are created. By speeding up only some of the constitutionally unacceptable arrangements in the draft, I say firstly, by abolishing the protectionist provisions of labour law on redundancies, both Article 22 on labour and Article 25 on the principle of proportionality. It is quite obvious that the provisions of Article 66 for dismissal by the Scientific Office of the Parliament itself in its report expresses serious doubts as to whether the social right to the dismissal is adequately protected in this respect, as laid down in Article 22(1) of the Constitution. Secondly, by means of the provisions on collective agreements and the proposed reduction of collective bargaining, the collective autonomy enshrined in Article 22 of the Constitution is affected, collective autonomy is being abolished, since the freezing of negotiations for a long period of self-evidently removes all possibilities for drawing up collective regulations, leaving unregulated terms of pay and work. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall end in two minutes. Thirdly, this is also the case with the restrictions introduced in the strike which essentially make the right guaranteed by Article 23(2) inactive, but also with the excessive restrictions on the exercise of the constitutional freedom guaranteed by the Constitution in effect. Procedural obstacles to the right of collective bargaining, strikes and trade union activity in general may lead not only to restrictions but also to the dismantling of the right to collective bargaining, the strike. Finally, even the conversion of the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority is inconsistent with Article 22 of the Constitution as the state seems to be dismantling its fundamental responsibilities for the protection of workers and the legitimate good of work. Here on the grounds that it does not have a legal form, I must say that the issue of control in general in economic, production, social function, control mechanisms is a matter of the hard core of the state, the narrow public sector for this and the Labour Inspectorate is essentially a service of the Ministry of Labour. Instead of strengthening the service, you are evacuating the responsibility of your own administration to control the workplace. That, in my opinion, is not correct in constitutional terms. We are therefore talking about a serial anti-constitutionality of the draft law and obvious opposition to the letter and spirit of the relevant constitutional arrangements. We, as our rapporteur said, again call for the withdrawal of Articles 55 to 125 of the draft law and the safeguarding of the right to work, as the Constitution demands and imposes, and we are obviously voting in favour of the objection of unconstitutionality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, Parliamentary Representative from SYRIZA, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. I have heard the representative of the New Democracy say that today's debate is taking place in the context of a parliamentary custom. I do not consider it any worse than this, especially when anyone is aware of the remarks that have been made about this draft law by the Scientific Council of Parliament and the Association of Prosecutors. I think you were told very clearly. This isn't about it. These are provisions contained in this draft law, which are grossly unconstitutional. I think, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you cannot approach the Constitution and the constitutional framework on the basis of the short-term majority. The Constitution through its provisions captures correlations, perceptions, social struggles and cannot be dealt with every time on the basis of a majority, such as any law. So you come here with the specific provisions and intervene in the core of the trade union freedoms guaranteed by the Constitution. Yes or no? When introducing the concept of a proactive strike ban what does that mean? What is it? When, for the first time in the face of the constitutionally guaranteed concept of collective bargaining, you introduce the individual contract is or is it not purely unconstitutional? Where and where do you come from and interfere with the unions' self-defence? What is your understanding of unions, social struggles, the autonomy that should characterize them? And you resort to easy terms, such as workers' and state-owned union. Who? You who have always supported this practice through your practices and your own forces, and only after 1974, we had cartoons of autonomous social processes and trade union practices. Yes or no? You come and dismantle the Labour Inspectorate when work protection is one of the first tasks imposed by the Constitution on the state. How will there be protection on the part of the State, the Ministry in the field of work without weapons, without arms? Through the creation of an independent, known as the principle? Ladies and gentlemen, you are aware that our country has signed international labour conventions which precisely provide for the existence, operation, upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate, a job inspectorate that you have certainly put in the refrigerator. You did so before 2015 and made sure you did it all the time, abolishing it as a special secretariat and now with the very imaginative scenario of independence. Ladies and gentlemen, yesterday the Greek society saw images from the past again in front of it. Through this infertility conference case, we saw again anachronistic stereotypes, darkening perceptions. We have seen the reproduction of standards that want the woman in particular roles, by attacking her right to self-determination, in her choices. Be careful, everyone who has criticised will have to watch today's debate, because how hypocritical it is to talk about a different role for the woman and introduce over here arrangements, such as the wasted working hours, which makes workers' lives elastic. What right, what are we talking about in relation to new couples giving birth to childbirth, fertilizing when in their lives they have been doomed to work for ten hours with two hours unpaid for five months, for six months? You are literally going to overthrow a very great conquest of labour movements and struggles from previous centuries, eight hours of work, eight hours of rest, eight hours of free time. That's where these provisions turn us. I want to say from the Step of the House, looking towards Greek society and also to colleagues of the Anti-Population, this: If there were no SYRIZA government, the pandemic would not have been EUR 534 what workers were taking on suspension but it would have been EUR 450. This is what you conceive of and level it through a criticism that does not understand what specific achievements mean in given conditions, such as the choice to increase by 11% the minimum wage, to abolish the underpaid wage. We would still be the only country in Europe that we would be with 2014 wages together with Latvia and Bulgaria, if there were not the compromised SYRIZA that brought back the collective negotiations and two hundred and two thousand people who saw an increase in their incomes, which protected contract workers by specific provisions as far as the association allowed it. Yeah, it wasn't much of a step, but don't underestimate it. If we really are in this debate on the same side, then let us see each through its differentity its contribution and the need to create a front that against this neoliberal anti-social Armageddon will set up an impediment. It's easy to review from the safe. You recognise very well and I could bring you examples of dozens of regulations that were in place on the SYRIZA Government that were recognised by the workers themselves. Have you heard of the law on legal proceedings for workers in local government? Over twenty-five thousand contractors have solved the hostage problem on the basis of this provision. Have you heard of the retrospective provision of personal protective equipment to the contractors in the cleanliness that Mr. Brutsis did not give them and we gave them? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Don't underestimate them by talking about Memorandum Governments. We are aware of our limitations, our efforts, our defeat, our successes, but we know well what our historic duty is, and that is what we are calling on you to join together. From there on, people judge and make their decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr. Skourlet. The Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, Mr Yiannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u101	Ladies and gentlemen, I am succeeding in the step by Mr Skourletis, who just before he gave me the feeling that he is ready for the revolution of the proletariat. Only he's a little late...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u102	Don't be afraid!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u103	... because he passed by a Minister of Labour, he disguised everything he said during the election period until 2014 and changed completely. Before I enter the essence of my position on the issue of unconstitutionalism, I would remind Mr Skourletis - because SYRIZA is trying to do it candy and repeat it - that the increase in the minimum wage was not done in some arbitrary way of deciding by SYRIZA, it was done with v. 4173 of Brutsis, as the JRC quite rightly says, a law for which SYRIZA left the House and pledged that the next day he will be abolished by a law and an article. And not only, ladies and gentlemen, it has not been abolished, but it is a law that today, having listened to Kostis Hatzidakis in committee, confirms that it comes to be implemented throughout Europe, the law that we have pioneering in Greece, because the minimum wage is not determined in line with the will but on the basis of the reverences of the economy, which was fully implemented by SYRIZA. And on that basis, the increase we welcome has been made. And this law will be re-evaluated every year on the basis of the potential of economic durability and growth in the pace of the economy, in order to give the workers a corresponding increase in wages. And this law is, Mr Skourletis, which gave the increase in workers, which we welcomed at that time. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a tradition in the Greek Parliament, when and whenever a working bill comes, to raise the swords of war. But in what direction? On the one hand, when the Left brings working law, it consecrates him, because it's on the left side, so a premier is something very good. On the other hand, when and whenever the side of the New Democracy dares, which I am going to talk about, bring employment law - which is not the first time, Mr Hatzidakis, we have repeatedly brought laws, namely Law No 4172, which I said before, Law No 44093, where we abolished the good reason for dismissal and many other laws - a storm of war arises. Why? Because there is a well-established concept - which you believe is your privileged place in society - that in this way in the field of labour, working debate, you have the authentic right to say that you are the charitable ones. You're making a big mistake. Personally, I do not abuse your intention. You have the right to believe it and you do it well. We do not, however, grant a single millimetre of our main position that, in sensitivity, who is in favour of workers, you do not outweigh it. It is your right with your own perspective, with your own tools to see what is good for the workers. Ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population, this faction I have been serving since a young child, New Democracy, in its ideological arsenal since the day that was founded by the National Chief of Constantine Karamanlis, and all the leaders who served it, has always a basic principle, that it was created, in order to serve man, the worker, the retired person. And to make this ideological commitment to inventing tools, through which wealth is created in society, to increase the standard of living of workers. That is why, over time, we are obliged to move forward as a party, whenever we govern, not to stay behind committed to anachronistic principles and ideologies and values, but to pave the way forward for the future, to adapt our position for the good of the workers and the people, on the basis of the new social and economic reality. Because it's been proven that when you're inactive, when you don't change, at the end of the process, you hurt the worker. And we are the party that has the courage to open roads and adapt to the new reality, as it is shaped globally. And we have proved it that we have political bravery and courage against the unarmed cries and slogans, when such a debate is held in the House, to move forward. And to see the examples now. In this Chamber, in the capacity of the Minister in previous years or simply the Member, how many times have I heard in the New Democracy bills that the collective labour agreements are being abolished next day, that the next day we will be liberating redundancies and we will have thousands of redundancies, that the labour market will collapse next day, that the EDP control mechanism will not be abolished, that the next day we will have a collapse of labour rights? How many times have we told other bills? What happened in practice? None of this. The arguments put forward today by SYRIZA are arguments that have been repeated in the past and the whole side of the Left over time. And what finally happened? They've been disproved. Were the collective agreements abolished? Of course not. Historian founding father L.1876/1990 remains unchanged and is the core of our perception. Or on the question of unemployment, you had announced that unemployment would be evacuated by the law of abolishing the good reason for dismissal, which we brought in September 2019 and which we were right to do, because otherwise it would bring about an increase in unemployment. You have anticipated an increase in unemployment and unemployment despite the crisis, with the measures we have taken in favour of workers, has been reduced and is continuing to fall. So, in essence, this whole argument, which you put to you over time, is actually annulled. Say no new argument! Now the Minister of Labour is accused of the bill and in total the government is unconstitutional and anti-constitutional. I therefore confirm that the right to work remains unchanged, as is the right to strike. The core of the right to strike is not affected anywhere. For us, strike is a sacred right. We're just changing the framework so that they can stop through this... there's been catastrophes. You told us it was unconstitutional to vote for all the workers. Really? Is it not an extension to democracy that, since we have the technological potential, we give all the workers the right to decide on this very serious, fundamental issue of their work, whether they can have children or whether they want them? Is it wrong to vote for all the workers or few for that right? So, a constitutional or non-constitutional? It is a Constitution for most of the people to vote more democratically. You're talking about collective agreements. Where did you see that collective agreements are dismantling? The collective agreements - I said before - Law 1876/1990 remains an unaltered and stable pillar of our country's labour law. Is teleworking undisturbed, ladies and gentlemen? Well, SYRIZA doesn't know what position he'll get in the end. On the side of the JRC, however, I have heard that she is mostly anti-Semitism. Who? Progress? Can we close our eyes in the future? Teleworking, in fact, was not a field in which we had been able to see it coming. It emerged through the crisis. Will we close our eyes to a reality that comes from the future, to the teleworking that came to stay? Because teleworking, in the end, is a new working framework, which has emerged in the crisis, will be implemented and implemented throughout the world. What do we do? We are bringing in an institutional framework. And I told the committee that during 2020 I adopted many of Mrs Ahtsoglu's proposals, which are integrated into the teleworking bill. We added others to the European experience in which teleworking was already being applied and the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, put the right to withdraw from electronic work. Is it bad, unconstitutional and anti-constitutional to build an electronic platform called GEMISE? It was applied and passed by the law of 2019. There was a very strong criticism at the time and now we have to conclude with our current legislative intervention. Is it unconstitutional and anti-constitutional to know who state interlocutors are and who represent workers and employers? Because you forget that. Because employers' organizations are also reacting to the creation of GEMO. It is undemocratic, unconstitutional, that it is anti-constitutional to know with clear rules and transparency who we will be dealing with as a state over time, and who are the workers representing them and the employers' organisations? Really? It is constitutional and philosophical to stop seals - unions and seals - trade unions. Is it unconstitutional and anti-constitutional that we are adopting European directives on violence, sexual harassment, the fourteen days that we are giving and above the European directive, to harmonise working and family life? Are these unconstitutional and anti-constitutional? Clearly not. They're charitable and constitutional. Is the health and safety that we bring with it unconstitutional and anti-constitutional? Clearly not. And we are one of the first European countries to adopt all these three directives very quickly and automatically. He's in favor of the workers. Is the issue of 'ERGANI II' unconstitutional, namely digital hours? I heard just before I saw him, Mr. Skourletis, say about the dissolution of the RCF and that he no longer has any tools. Really? Where did you get that? Was there more powerful tools than 'ERGANI I', which enabled the electronic recording of redundancies and reduced undeclared work from 42.3% to 4% today? It decreased from 42.3% in February 2013 to 4%. Did it happen? It was done with 'ERGANI I' and the EUR 10 500, the very strict fine for which you denounced me at the time and we maintain it in strict rules. And here comes 'ERGANI II', which digitizes the working hours, and here is a misinterpretation that colleagues do not know about, to say it: it is not the proposal of the GSP to 'ERGAN II'. The worker's card was GSY's proposal in 2011, which was not adopted and now adopted, because "ERGANI II", digital hours, is the innovation that does not exist throughout Europe, as the recording of the digital hour will not be limited to a computerized environment of the company, but will be aware of the Ministry of Labour. And the APRC auditors now with the five hundred laptops, which they took a month ago, will be able to know and have each company's profile and profile, who work and how many hours accurately. Are there more powerful tools for protecting workers in the APRC?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u104	Finish it, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u105	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in this House will be of interest. I believe that in the end, calm voices will prevail, calm thinking, because I believe that everyone - well-meaningly thinking - wants the good and the labour market and the business and the work place. Because, as has been said quite rightly, there can be no workers without businesses but also businesses without workers. The New Democracy, over time and constant, is a people's party that stands next to the workers who want to make progress, improve living standards, good quality jobs and well-paid jobs. Just us the tools we use are tools that open the way in the future.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u106	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u107	We do not close our eyes to the new social and economic reality, but every time we adapt so that we are together with the modern world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. The Minister for Labour, Mr. Kostis Hatzidakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u109	Mr President, does the Minister make his normal speech or speak of constitutionality?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u110	On constitutionality. It's always like that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u111	No, that's not always the case, that's why I'm asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u112	No provision is made, Mr Skourletis, there is no provision. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u113	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, as we speak, Mr Brutsi has had a point earlier, who pointed out that you have been accusing him for so long that he has abolished collective agreements, that he has slaughtered the workers and that he has destroyed the country in general. If you were right then, what do you repeat the same? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, of course, it is well known that you have, as we do, an abstention to the truth, which would also claim a global record.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u114	You're over it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u115	If you went to a final, you'd get over Chichipa with the corresponding liar in the world. You could earn the lie tournament. In any case, it would also be right to observe - I have at least sat down and counted the articles - that although you do not agree - curiously, I will then explain - with the provision for the Labour Inspectorate, you agree with the eighty-five of the nineteen articles of the Constitution. I'm excluding the JRC. I have sat down and counted one - one of the articles that did not accept any criticism. If I had included the APRD, we would have reached nine out of a hundred twenty - nine articles. That is why you broke your clothes into the bill that for the first time provides for a paternity leave for fourteen days, for the bill which provides for parental leave paid by the OAED for both parents - for the first time in the history of the country! - for a bill which provides for concrete measures on violence and sexual harassment at the workplace, for the bill governing the rights of trade unions, but also for the rights and health and safety of workers in delinquents, for the bill which comes and regulates the issues of teleworking - and, indeed, Greece becomes a third country after France and Spain regulating in this bill the right to decouple workers - for the bill which comes and equates the workers up with all the other employees, for the bill that makes a key section - this is the main part of this bill - the introduction of the digital card, which is the basic tool to control the time, the working hours, all the individual working relationships within the firm. This bill is to be won because you obviously do not care about the bill, but the desperation you have from the polls, because as long as the months pass and as long as the time passes with Mr.Mitsotakis, instead of minimizing the gap between the New Democracy and all of you - particularly SYRIZA - the gap is growing. This is your concern and not your concern for the workers!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u116	What do polls say about the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u117	Don't interrupt! Nobody interrupted you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u118	I would add, therefore, that I am going further than that, to say that you are making all your arguments to consider the bill as unconstitutional. Your right! We're all judging. I shall therefore reply from now on as soon as possible to these disagreements on unconstitutionalism. Article 95: Strike cover previously declared illegal, coverage by a secondary club, the Labour Center, say. What happened on the subway recently illegally declared the strike of one of the nine metro clubs that broke down the traffic in Athens and then came the Labour Center on the same day and covered the same strike. Why are these strikes illegally declared? You've already been explained by Mr. Buga. Because in principle they have not been declared by a general meeting, as should be said, or because the deadlines are not complied with. Is it reasonable to cover the strike in such a case? Is that what you're supporting? Is that what you're supporting? You are inviting the articles of the Constitution to protect the strike, indeed, but you see half the articles of the Constitution. You haven't seen Article 25(3) that talks about the abuse of a right, say. Is this or isn't this abusive right exercise? Or you have not seen Article 25(1) on the principle of proportionality, which you have invoked, but you have invoked it where it suits you. Let's go to Article 93: Psychological violence, in case there's a strike going on. Refer to Article 23 of the Constitution. Indeed, Article 23 speaks of protecting the strike within the framework of the law. The law defines these frameworks in accordance with the same article. There is also another article that you mentioned on several occasions, Article 22 - I will come back to Article 22 after - on the Labour Inspectorate, which says - you said it - that work is also a right protected by the State. You see only the right to strike, but you don't see the right to work. Only those who strike have rights, but they do not - in your view - have - those who want to work. In fact, that's a concept too. Also, the JRC, referring to psychological violence, says 'but are you referring only to workers and trade unions?' Where did you see it? Read Article 4 of the bill, which speaks of labour violence, and which is obviously also mentioned to employers. We are not only looking at the phenomenon of violence and psychological violence when it comes to trade unionists. We are also dealing with it when it comes to employers, because we are a large folk party, which believes that there must be a balance between the two sides. As it has already been noted, there can be no company-free workers as well as companies with tiles workers. And that's the philosophy of this bill. I am going further to Article 22 on the Labour Inspectorate, which you have remembered in the Labour Inspectorate, and you say here the job is a right protected by the State. Previously, it wasn't, at 102 is. And what's bothering you? That we are doing an independent administrative authority such as the AIA which will do the checks. Instead of the Ministry doing the same to them, and finally the Minister himself. Question: I'm sorry, Mr. Bugas read the law before. The ADP today, which is an administrative authority without legal personality, as it says in legal law, is not a state? What is it, Mr. Pittsilis? Is it something that's not at the edge of the Greek area? Isn't it a state authority? So, how many more political hypocrisy and how much passion? But I have another question to ask. You two and a half months each day have not spent a day, you say I have the galleys, the rollers, that I want to destroy my workers with my hands, etc. Excuse me, did you realize what you were saying all this time together? That you trust me with the galleys and the rollers to protect the workers more than a Pickley number two. That's your counterpopulation. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Noise in the Chamber]] Opposition, whatever. Untrue Opposition, just to say something. Let's go further. Article 86, 87. Responsibilities for participation in the general meeting at a distance. We say that, apart from those who are present at the general meeting, others who do not have the opportunity for them to be present, to vote at a distance. What's bothering you? Do you want to have a limited area of democracy? Don't you want there to be a greater representativeness? What's bothering you? What we anticipate is the possibility of this from the side. The trade unions will also ensure that everything is done in a normal and legal way. We trust the trade unions. Didn't you trust them that they can organise a vote properly or your vision is to perpetuate? What we lived last year at the GFCM Congress with the phenomena of violence and beatings. Is that your progressive policy? She? Or are you technicians - I don't know what to assume - and you're afraid of electronic votes anymore?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u119	Make special police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u120	I'm on my way. GFCF, the new register for both labour organisations and employers' organizations. What about it? It replaces something that exists today and that is the book of the Court of First Instance which records the organisations. So what do you want? You want us to remain in the systems of past procedures and not move on to an electronic modernisation. With the same logic, as has already been said, not to do GEMI, the General Commercial Register, the Electronics for Business, but to stay on paper and bureaucracy. I note that there is a very important progressive perception from the point of view of counter-population and on this issue. I'm going further. We're going to fire protection. Ladies and gentlemen, I could tell you that the consequences are not set out in the Constitution. Netly speaking, but in Article 180 of the Civil Code. We can disagree on the substance and then we will be happy to hear the debate on the articles and to see in detail what this article provides and to enlighten each other's side, but it is not a constitutional matter. I cannot, however, tell you that, in this case, you are once again applauding and denounced, and you see that the government, in any event, has once again destroyed the workers, there are six cases added to the list already in existence in relation to the voidity of dismissal, including six cases where the father is, until every child of six months. So far, that was not predictable. There was no father's protection and, for the first time, provision was made for protection of the worker for the exercise of the right, even by workers from the left side, who considered it a progressive move on the part of the government. Are you going to have the truthfulness to recognize them? One will come out of the opposition in this Chamber to say, in any case, yes, you did but they are few. No, I don't know how to characterize it. And likewise, you have a similar idea in Article 58 in relation to the arrangement of the working time that you have made with candy. I am not going to make a full analysis that applies throughout Europe, that it has been in force in Greece for thirty years now, that they signed contracts on both your days, I will only say two three things. One is that the individual contracts that we are introducing for working time are valid as I have shown in the committee - I have shown the relevant website of the European Union - are valid for the majority of the Member States of the European Union and for the majority of Greece is drafted. In addition, within these states that apply these rules it is Spain and Portugal, where the socialists are ruling on the left to be co-government. See what your comrades are doing at last in Spain and Portugal. I would also add that the individual contract for which you are currently making this acute criticism for us was first introduced by you to settle working time. I have here Directive 1158 that we are incorporating into national law today. It was signed on SYRIZA at European level on 20 June 2019, Article 9. Member States shall take the necessary measures to ensure that workers with children up to a certain age who are at least eight years old and carers are entitled to request flexible working arrangements for care purposes. Isn't this an individual contract? What is it? So all employees and children will be gathered and asked for a collective agreement? Surely all the employees have the same number of children, have their children been born on the same day, do they have the same needs as a family? Hey, for Christ's sake! I don't know who God you believe, but there had to be an elementary restraint or an individual contract introduced by SYRIZA and today he bails against himself. That's what this is about. What do you mind about the individual contract? It is well to be for workers with children up to eight years old, but not to be workers with older children or not to be workers who are not married. Is that what you've been making all these complaints about for two and a half months? Also, one more question. It disturbs you with an individual contract of employment when it's for the arrangement. In the overtime that has been in place for decades, how is this going on in the country? Is it going on with individual contracts too? Isn't that where the employer at overtime is stronger? Suddenly overtime, is it going to be equal to the worker? How many more political hypocrisy and lies? How much political hypocrisy and lies! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I've seen such phenomena in Greece too, but such a lie, such hypocrisy, so much take news as in this bill I've really never seen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u121	Minister, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u122	I shall conclude, Mr President, with one final comment again on trade union matters. Protection of the trade union dismissal. The trade union had a stronger dismissal protection regime so far than pregnant women. Does it bother you that we bring them to the same level? Up to now, the trade unionist could not have ratified labour law if he had been involved in violence against his colleague or even if he had been involved in the event of sexual harassment. Do you want trade union immunity in the event of sexual harassment? And then did you teach us about these issues before? [[Noise from the wings of SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece]] It's a very specific question. And here we go with arguments, we won't go with slogans. The House is a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u123	Lignade ask.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u124	If you're indiscreet, if you're gamblers, look at yourself!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u125	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u126	Shame on you! Ask Mr. Georgiadis, the Prime Minister's advisor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u127	Look at how you're organized at these gatherings and then come and do lessons.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u128	Lie! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u129	Please, Mr President, you will be given the opportunity to reply to your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u130	Because by raising a question of constitutionality, you are actually covering trade unionists who are raped against their colleagues or who are sexually harassed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u131	We know who's sexually harassed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u132	Lie, Mr. Hatzidakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u133	Please. He has a right, and the Minister has a right to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u134	I will conclude with just one comment on the strikes in the public interest. In the public interest, why do we have one-third of the service run? In the common interest, therefore, Article 23 provides that the strike is subject to specific restrictions of the law regulating it. That is what we do, and we say, as is happening in countries such as Belgium, France, Spain, Australia, Canada, one third of the service, because these strikes are directed against governments or employers, they are not directed against society. We would honestly expect that, with what has been done on various strikes, on the coastline, on the metro, you have learned and wanted us to follow the path of European countries. But you repeat the well-known motto that the law is the right of the worker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u135	That's right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u136	All right, let's take it, then. But if we accept it, you too must accept that the law is the right thing for the student who wants to test and operate the metro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u137	You vote and delete them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u138	Open the universities. You shut the universities down!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u139	Law is the right person who wants to buy drugs. The law is the right of the disabled to be served. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You're the ones with the workers. We're with society. You're the one with the delay. We are with Europe. You guys are with the reaction. We're making progress. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u140	There is no need for tension, there will be an opportunity for everyone to respond. Okay, positions are, political positions are, you don't need a reaction. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate has been concluded in accordance with Article 100 of the two objections to anti-constitutionalism. We shall proceed with what has been established by the Conference of Presidents and by practice in the light of the special circumstances we cannot have the quorum that we need. Therefore, we will go with the principle of declared. So the parliamentary representatives should vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u141	Let's get up, Mr. President. When did it change?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u142	It's the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u143	Please don't interrupt. Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u144	We support all objections, both to the Communist Party and to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u146	Explains.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Paphis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u148	Explains.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u149	Mr. Scandalidis has said in favour. Mr. Skourletis is in favor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u150	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u151	There is no justification for the vote. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Mr. Skourletis, you're an old parliamentarian, you've exhausted the subject...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u152	A suffocation again, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u153	No explanation of vote, no precedent will be created. You're in favor. Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u154	Opposed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u155	So, according to the principle of declared, the objection of unconstitutionality is rejected. We are entering the list of speakers. Mrs Theodora Bakoyannis, first speaker, has the floor. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] I would remind you that the parliamentary representatives can, after three - four speakers, take the floor and speak whenever they judge, if they say so to the Bureau.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u156	Mr President, will you give me the floor to say something now before Mrs Bakoyannis gets the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u157	Don't complain unfairly. We are applying the Rules of Procedure and what has been decided by Parliament at all previous meetings. Mrs Bakoyannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been following in the public debate for days the debate and the arguments of the Opposition on the draft law of the Ministry of Labour, and I must sincerely confess my apologies and confusingness. Mr Hatzidakis brings a well thought out European bill, which after almost forty years - in some cases, half a century - updates the labour legislation of that country, with the aim not only of increasing competitiveness but also social cohesion and equality. It goes without saying that opposition will deny it. It is also very reasonable that opposition will try to present its arguments. But I wonder - and I tell you quite frankly - about the level of the arguments. I heard before my friend, Costas Scandalidis, saying he's nostalgic about Law 1264 of 1982. Our youths are nostalgic, Mr. Scandalides, but in 1982 and 2021 they have a huge difference. We cannot stick to the 1982 argument. We cannot stick to the 1982 argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u159	I said that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u160	Let me finish. You'll have the floor on staff after and you can say whatever you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u161	Don't twist what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u162	And unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, that is what you are doing today in this House. You were stuck in a point of order yesterday, as if you had not followed any of what has been done over the last forty years and, in any case, over the last ten years in the world. Refusal everything and you have - and you will allow me here to say that this right you do not have - the opportunity to present from the beginning until the end lies. And I'm telling you, honestly. It is abolished eight hours. I listened to it on television by at least four colleagues, saying very seriously that it was abolished in the eighth hour. How is it possible to abolish the eighth hour, ladies and gentlemen, which, in my view, is completely unnecessary - the bill repeats that there is? You were against a sterile rhetoric, as if you really could not have any additional arguments today, which might actually improve a bill that comes to Parliament, because, as you know, there is no perfect law. Instead, you are arguing in a way that really reminds and confirms how far away from society you are today, how far away from the workers you are, how far from all those who are fully aware of what is going on in this society and in what conditions they are working today. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no doubt that the biggest problem in the country today is 'black' work - you know that very well - or those workers who are forced to work over eight hours with undeclared and unpaid overtime. So the digital working card is coming and I have not heard one from you say that this is a huge intersection. The digital working card when it is completed - and it will take its time - will really be to ensure for the worker and for his overtime, giving him the real power to resist any potential bad employer. The bill strengthens the labour inspection. For me the biggest problem in Greece has always been the control mechanisms. The control mechanisms have certainly suffered in your day too - I do not want to remember various misery that has occurred - but also in our day. Work inspection had weaknesses. Today comes a new proposal, a proposal which takes out the inspection of labour from the Minister's narrow hug. Mr Hatzidakis said so very well, and it is clear that you trust the Minister of Labour in New Democracy much more than a possible independent authority. But the aim of this independent authority, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely to strengthen the control mechanisms, to remove them from any influence, political, party or rhysphetological, so that Greece can finally obtain proper control mechanisms, because without proper control mechanisms whatever law and to vote, the most perfect law to vote, since there is no control mechanism, will not be able to implement it properly and will not be able to protect the worker properly. I am not going to talk about all of what you know very well and which makes it seem to me that you have not found a good reason to say, to protect their paternity, to modernise the sexual harassment phenomena in the workplace, for the licenses given, for teleworking which is really in Greece today, which, for the first time, is protected with the most modern European framework by giving the worker the right to disconnect. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Some of you, perhaps not all, know what teleworking will mean. You know what the worker's gonna say and bother him at 22:00, at 23:00 and at 12:00 at night. This is an unprecedented right given to the workers today and I think we should at least recognize it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I shall end right away. I would like to say a few words on the subject of the vote on the general meetings. Ladies and gentlemen, in 1982, when Mr Scandalidis was nostalgic, I was a unionist at the Ministry of Coordination. New Democracy then had the shocking 12% rate and PASOK has always had about 80%. We were - to describe it otherwise - a sad, sad minority. However, since we had a "caffe" opposition we decided at the general meeting of the officials of the Ministry of Coordination to take the general meeting. And how did we get her? Following an old and good method of the Communist Party, we started talking about proceedings from 3:00 p.m. to 3:00 p.m. At some point everyone else was bored...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u163	The JRC has never done it. Other things you remember!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u164	I'm sorry! Okay, wrong! In any case, we took the general assembly because others were exterminated and gone. These are his logic yesterday, ladies and gentlemen. The fact that today in the Council of Europe we can vote on the judges of the European Court of Justice by electronic vote from Greece and the others on the spot, those who had the right to go to Strasbourg show precisely that you are not giving a worker the right today to vote in his general assembly is a thought that reflects the day before yesterday, not yesterday! Greece, ladies and gentlemen, will move forward. Workers will increase their income as soon as the country is developed and their rights with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, you have no doubt that they will be fully protected. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u165	Thank you too, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u166	Madam President, may I ask Mrs Bakoyannis a question? Can you accept it, Mrs. Bakoyannis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u167	I am delighted, Mr President. If the President permits that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u168	Here, Mr President, I would ask you to be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u169	No misuse of time! Mrs Bakoyannis, because you have referred to the control mechanisms that are a very crucial issue, and we are obviously talking about the control mechanisms relating to work and rights at work, you have regard to the standard report of the EIA and the control mechanisms on the specific issues that we are discussing today, which have resulted in a series of controls and in a series of fines and in a series of institutions, which were the first measures of your Government. Do you know that? In an officer's way, you spoke about athleticism that was nowadays wrong on the basis of the evidence, fines and efforts made. There was a very important effort. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u170	Please, Mrs. Bakoyannis, will you answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u171	Mr President, if you were satisfied with the way the Labour Inspectorate worked on your days, it is your right. I was neither today nor yesterday, nor was I fully satisfied with it. I think the control mechanism needs to be improved. That is what I think, Mr President. If you were happy with the way it worked on your day, I respect it, but I do not agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u172	Thank you very much. Mr Katrugalos has the floor now from SYRIZA and I would ask that we keep colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u173	Ladies and gentlemen, the dear Mrs Bakoyannis joking, of course, has invoked Mr Scandalidis as a nostalgic in the 1980s. In fact, nostalgics of this decade are Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Mitsotakis, for they almost restore the provisions of the classic anti-virtual laws of Mrs. Thatcher, the Employment Acts of 1980 and 1982. And it is precisely because the aim of these two, in my opinion, is extreme neoliberal policies to cover this reality, that is why they went on to join this bill and a large number of positive national obligations either from international conventions or from European directives. But do I want to be specific did Thatcher seek counter-reformation or counter-revolution? To break trade unionism, collective bargaining, with a short-term objective to be able to promote a particularly extensive privatisation programme, but also with a strategic aim to undermine the power of collectively organised work. We have in mind when we talk about Thatcher, especially the great miners' strike. But that's not where this arsenal was used. There the right to be violated was the sacred civil right to property. The strike broke when the miners' solidarity fund was seized by particularly difficult procedures. Even the most heroic striker cannot continue to strike when he has no money for rent or milk for his child. On the contrary, the anti-operative arsenal was used mainly against the private sector, not the public sector. Where am I referring to, and what are the thatstoric regulations which are repeated in themselves in the anti-virtual, neoliberal, more promoted and the most extreme dreams of the International Monetary Fund? Psychological violence: In Employment acts it is considered that there is proven and self-justifiable psychological violence when there is a concentration of solidarity outside a strike area, in which more than six workers are involved. The seventh is the psychological violence the union exerts on those who are supposed to want to work. Here, Mr Hatzidakis directly adopted the version of the right to work, not as the Constitution wants - the right to have done a job - but as a right against the strike. Mrs Thatcher continued and Mr Hatzidakis adopted. (I should say Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Mitsotakis): When there is similar psychological violence or in any case where the syndicate regulation of these anti-operatorial laws has a civil responsibility towards the boss. He'll pay compensation for the union to the employer. And the obligation to compensate is extended by Mr Hatzidakis and by the members of the club strikers, not only in his administration. It goes a step further than Mrs Thatcher, in other words, Mr Hatzidakis. Third counter-reformation: Mrs Thatcher forbid any secondary strike, any strike of solidarity which can declare a national-wide union in a workplace without a syndicate. This provision was strategically exploited by Murdoch to dismantle collective representation in the press. What did he do? It created virtual companies where there was no syndicate, because in reality these companies were shelled in which they were "loaned" workers and when the national syndicate declared a strike in these virtual companies to cover the workers, the strike was declared illegal. Despite massive participation in the strike, despite the demonstrations by thousands of people of solidarity in London, the compensation procedure was initiated against the association, in favour of the employer since this strike had been declared illegal, as a secondary strike. I could go on. However, it is clear that it is a copy of extreme neoliberal regulations that this bill is in a phase that the flow of history is moving in the opposite direction. In the same "Mecka of capitalism", where Reagan after Thatcher completed the neoliberal reform, now, President Biden turns in a different direction, from multinational taxation, the minimum global tax, to other measures. This trend obviously does not want New Democracy to follow it, because its ideological model remains, at least in its neoliberal wing, Thatcher and Reagan, in direct contrast to the ideological stigma of the founder of the New Democracy. The strategic aim of the New Democracy is proportionate, although not entirely the same as that of Thatcher. Thatcher wanted to dismantle a very well-organised trade union movement and to a large extent succeeded. 80% of the workers were trade unioned when Thatcher came to power and therefore it was covered by the respective collective labour agreements, and now the corresponding figure is less than 20%. The New Democracy does not have a similar movement in Greece, because with very important responsibilities of the leadership of GSEU, to a very large extent, workers do not currently have the trade union representation that suits them. The New Democracy is strategically trying to prevent the revival of the trade union movement, with the provisions of the bill. But why would it fail? We have two main differences with the Great Britain. The first is that we have a formal constitution and provisions which guarantee both the right to strike and the right to collective representation at all levels. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But there is a second one - and I shall end with that, Madam President - a difference. The new workers, the so-called 'third way', announced by Mr Blair, Mr Schröder, Mr Simitis, have maintained these anti-military and anti-communal arrangements. That's why Mrs. Thatcher, not joking, said her biggest achievement was Tony Blair. We will abolish these provisions. And when I talk and use this first plural person, I don't mean only SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u174	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u175	You took advantage of this bill, thinking you're strategically going to end the world of work. But inadvertently, you have assembled the progressive forces of this place, despite their considerable differences. And you have just ensured in this way that this bill will end with your Government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u176	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u177	And the minimum programming basis for the next progressive government will be precisely the abolition of these unacceptable anti-revolutionary anti-revolutionary provisions. So you offered a service. Thank you very much, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would ask you, ladies and gentlemen, to keep our time precisely because there are two hundred thirteen Members who have to speak. If there's any misuse of time from each of us, we'll never finish. So please be consistent in your time. Mr Ioannis Bougas has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in our Labour Law we have three basic principles of constitutional law, in fact, marginalization: the anthropocentric nature of labour law, the so-called 'protective' principle and, finally, the combination of freedom and equality. These axes certainly dominate both the ordinary legislator and govern the draft law under discussion. The opposition considered the job to be a privileged area of confrontation with the government. All SYRIZA's senior party was consumed in an unprecedented campaign of disinformation. They said - and they continue to say - a manifest lies about the provisions of the draft law. The result is poor. They have not succeeded in persuading workers and society. On the contrary, they once again showed that they do not care for the interests of many anonymous people of the labour. They only care about the preservation of what the Minister described in two words as a 'employer union' correctly. The government wins in society. It will also win in Parliament and this battle. With arguments we demonstrate that the draft law under discussion modernises in many areas our labour legislation, in line with the Constitution and international treaties. The debate on unconstitutionality was absolutely revealing. First of all, on issues that need to be brought into line with European legislation, but also best practice, Greece as a favoured European state, with titanic efforts, leaves behind the unprecedented consequences of the pandemic and returns to developmental orbit. In this context, the Government is determined to redefinite relations between workers and businesses, with a view to equality and justice. The provisions to be adopted shall lay down the rights and obligations of both sides for workers and employers. A balance is achieved between guaranteeing the rights of workers, on the one hand, and providing the framework for the proper functioning and development of the undertaking, on the other. The main aim of the draft law is to prevent any abuse on either side, whether from workers or from employers. In this effort, Opposition opposes denial and obsession in maintaining a morbid reality, it raises comico-tragic claims allegedly abolition of the eighth hour, although there are clear and unequivocal predictions, both in the draft law itself and in the European Social Charter. The draft law, in accordance with the directive 1158 signed by the SYRIZA and incorporating, enables the worker, on his own initiative, to request the settlement of working time. SYRIZA speakers have said that it is our commitment to abolishing the bill. You will not abolish it, ladies and gentlemen, even if you have had the opportunity to come to power. You will not abolish it, because you have committed yourself, with the directive that I have mentioned and voted for, to the maintenance and adoption of these provisions. So don't mislead the citizens. Nothing will be abolished, even if you had a chance to do it. The regulation of working time is not a new one. It has been in force for about thirty years. It has also been implemented and applied in the days of SYRIZA to OTE, Alpha Bank, "PAPASTRATO", "HBI", as well as in the hotel sector. Oppositely, opposition attempts to cause confusion between settling working time and overtime. In the case of settlement, the worker continues to work for forty hours a week in total, within the reference period defined by the legislation or in smaller reference periods, which are usually identified between an employee and an employer. In the case of overtime, however, the worker is working for more than one hour, but he receives more money at the expense of his leisure time. Businesses and employees, depending on their possibilities, wishes and needs, may reach similar agreements, whether for overtime or for flexible working time arrangement, and may also, of course, remain strictly in the eighth hour, which is still the legal basis. For the first time, OAED covers parental leave for two months for both father and mother. For the first time, a paternity leave of 14 days is introduced, from two days that are today. Truly, what will you tell the fathers who are additionally protected for six months from the birth of their child if you do not vote on the relevant provisions? The digital card is, in fact, a revolution at work. It shall guarantee and ensure the rights of the worker, the hours, the overtime and any work arrangement. The worker has the right to disconnect so that the employer does not bother him outside his working hours. This regulation on the decoupling of the digital card places our country in the European lead. The protection of the worker shall be strengthened and there shall be new grounds for invalidity. The right to strike cannot be directed against society as a whole, nor can it be accepted that citizens suffer excessive deprivation and dangers. The provisions of the draft law seek to protect the social system, on the one hand, from strikes in socially advantageous enterprises with the obligation to provide a guaranteed service to 1/3 of the ordinary and, on the other, from the possible reopening of a strike which has been declared illegal by justice. In addition, the arrangements for the remote exercise of rights and registration of organisations serve transparency in trade unions, so that minority groups cannot take decisions in the absence of workers. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is a major and necessary step towards rationalising, modernising and reforming labour law, further protection of workers, restoring injustices and innovative arrangements. Work is now at the centre of rapid social, economic, technological and other developments. The new forms of work, the cash economies and the global health threat form an ever-changing working landscape. Opposition insists and remains entrenched in micro-political attitudes and is limited to old-fashioned slogans. Society and government listen to reality, face things with realism. I urge you to vote in favour of the draft law under discussion. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u180	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, for keeping time. I Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Constantinople, now has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I go to Stepma, there were two different theoretical representatives, Mrs Bakoyannis and Mr Katrugalos, expressing two different political views. What did Mrs Bakoyannis say about n.1264? He said he had to change and that Mr. Scandalides wanted and revolved in 1982. No, ladies and gentlemen. We look back on our positives and have learned from our negatives and said Mr Scandalidis that this law needs improvements but not abolition. And why not dismantle? Because they are governed by something different politically. We understand that you are against what we are politically expressing. What are we expressing? That society, what you are saying today as an expression, work, business is made up of individuals, unlike us, who believe in the business, in any manifestation of life, that it expresses collectives. Let's think of facing the pandemic individually and not collectively! But now we're going to the other thing. So what did Mrs. Bakoyannis say? He said that about the digital paper, which she didn't vote for when she came. And you didn't vote for it. Welcome! What did Mr. Katrugalos say, who criticizes you for two things? His political conception was this: The smallest one made him pay EFKA as a tax, that is, it dismantled the medium-sized business! The smallest, not the big one! Coke didn't destroy her! The FBI did that. Second, what did he say? For GSEE leaderships and that of course there are problems. And that is why he is opposed to New Democracy, considering that the laws are for trade unionists and not for workers. So he said about the leaderships, and I wonder at the same time about this, seeing Mr. Fotopoulos the trade unionist PPC, along with Mr. Tsipras: But do they think that the world does not understand, that we deceive one place? He's like Simo Kedicoglou. We're talking about the "Samarovenezellos" and we got the fireman and we made him the first executive. Hey, geez! And we're going to the next thing. Let us go see a few points which are there and which I think are very important, and that is what concerns all of us. Because if not all of us, he can't move forward. Minister, when we all agree - and I do not see anyone here from island Greece or anything else - that, first of all, seasonal work is 50% official and 50% informal, overtime has something to do with the businessman and the worker. You solve that? Are you motivating somewhere that the businessman will also give the money and the employee will not want to get informal money so that everyone can report them properly, declare overtime and go to the digital card? Of course not. What liberals are you? What did you guys do now? I'll tell you what. It is precisely the opposite that you have done, the 'Cooperation' programme. Do you know what you were doing with the 'Cosmos - WORK' programme, Minister? Listen to what motive you're giving. You're telling one that he's being paid eight hours, but he'll be working four hours. A business that needs twenty employees, it's going to take forty. And you're liberal! But let us see where we are today after two years of governance of the New Democracy. The official rate of unemployment in the country is the second highest in the Eurozone, after Spain. The country has the third largest population of non-active economic citizens. Women, young people up to twenty-four years old and men over the age of fifty are obviously excluded. But let's go to see for the first time, what Eurostat says, where there was another concept in theory. He said, therefore, that we are in the highest position of the European Union as regards full-time weekly working. So what the New Democracy is coming to legislate today was done in practice five years ago! Ladies and gentlemen, for the next period of time for the workers - those who are following us, if they are following us, if they are following this confrontation, or simply saying that there is a conflict without them, because the act is completely different from what we are voting on - we must think and decide, even the New Democracy that will probably not believe it, that collective agreements with rules must be activated again. This is something that should be supported by a majority vote next time, so that we can go to the new era and to the new transition. And because you say about countries that have conservative governments, that's what they do in Finland, but Finland... [[This is where the closing bell of the speaking time of the Vice-President is ringing.]] I don't have time, and I don't want to get over time. So what do we want? And basically what are you doing with this arrangement? I will tell you something about the substance of your policy, Mr Hatzidakis. Settings work as a stimulus to create new jobs. I will not tell you what I could do from my political point of view, to argue. It is mainly a stimulus for businesses for new jobs. Everyone tells you. Like the confrontation - I do not have the time and I will end with it - to become the Labour Inspectorate 'Pichilis', I do not know who wants it and who does not, i.e. whether it is for business or not. It is a more general conversation that needs to be done on how the AIA operates, if we are interested in operating in this way. Thank you very much. I want to be consistent with my time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, ladies and gentlemen, I address to all the Members of this House who are currently here, but above all to you dear Members of the New Democracy. You know, if the elections were today, you would really manage to lose them. And it's unprecedented! Yes, I understand your surprise because all the galops, all the polls of the parasitic polls, give you thirteen to fourteen points ahead. If we remove parasites and how dependent they are on you, that is, four units, you go to eight to nine points ahead. And now you say: Well, a crazy Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 is coming up to tell us that if the elections were held today, what were we missing? You'd lose 'em! I swear to you. Watch what I mean. If they were yesterday, Sunday, you'd earn them, not with thirteen units, but with seven to eight points. There's your real difference. If they were on Thursday, you'd still earn them by seven to eight points. But if Mr. Mitsotakis dared to have an election Monday, Tuesday and Fourth of this week, you would lose the election. And you know why I'm telling you? I tell you all and you above all, Minister. Because you really have this cut and your alienation from large strata - not all - of your Greek society has done - and I do not say it politically and popularly - to a large extent live in your world. Indeed, he does not have a very important opposition. I don't want to criticize him. It's his position, it's not the ability. People are better than us. However, no particular opposition can be exercised. What do they say? What are the contracts signed by them? What do they say? That their third-fourth Memorandum, which expires in 2060, is exclusively applicable; The argument is tight. How can you defend what they don't defend with anything? But don't cut off, because I can assure you that if the elections were held today, tomorrow, you'd lose them. You're so mad at the average worker out there. Some don't even know details, they're not even sure you're as wrong as the whole Opposition tells them, but they're furious with you. They're angry. So if the elections were today, you'd lose them. We will therefore have to discuss the next three days and now and the next three days. We are right to debate and we shall vote unjustly. Why? Because the Greek people have already voted against, Mr Hatzidakis, your draft law. He has voted against it, and I tell you on the grounds of knowledge and goodwill. It has been voted against by 60% of your voters. They have the idea that it is diluent and destructive, decaying for whatever unit of work relationship and normality has been left at the place. I really intended, Minister, to invoke the bodies that rarely agree. You know, many times a lot of institutions oppose the government. But here we are dealing with an unprecedented consensus. In the two years that I am a Member of Parliament and I participate in several committees, because you know that we small parties are involved in many, I have not been able to see such a consensus of institutions. I intended to invoke the bodies, then I intended to invoke the Scientific Committee of Parliament, which every time you bring a bill invoke it, but it can't be a la carte. After you have invoked it every time and say, 'Nuck children, it is not unconstitutional, it would have been said by the Scientific Committee of the Parliament,' now that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament is screaming three days that it is all unconstitutional, why do you not do so in constitutional terms? Why don't you change the provisions that run counter to the Greek Constitution? Apart from the Committee on the Rules of Procedure, I intended to invoke common sense. I intended to invoke what one can and cannot imagine. Finally, I plead nothing in front of this House of the Greeks, except my experience last Wednesday in the course of Athens, both by PAME and GSEU - this "protestor" GSEU, this "capitalist" GSEU - as well as by the Athens Labour Center. On this path, whoever went and wasn't in his office the cabinet or the parliamentary in here, and made the effort to go, like me, to tell you the truth, we Merra25 in the Constitution had the least of the world of all. I'm not saying it to knit my party's obedience. I say it because I was there. And whoever was there knows your bill has been voted down. Since you've been ruled, we've never had again how many tens of thousands of people on the streets. We haven't had that many tens of thousands before. Even if Wednesday next - the previous one was the flagship gathering - you make it a law of the state and insist, on paper, Mr Hatzidakis, as your mining remains on paper. If I'm not mistaken, you've happened to be Minister there again, as you change ministries. They were left on paper because they did not interest anyone, neither the Aegean nor the fish nor the Greeks, nor the Israelis, nor the Turks, nor the Cypriots. And Mr. Chrysochoid's university police left on paper again. It's voted. We voted here and we were screaming 'don't do it, it's unacceptable'. Eventually life itself rejects them. So some very - very parasitic bills that you want to pass, which at the same time happens - coincidence is - to be entirely symbolic, these few cases, such as asylum, even if you manage to pass through the House, know that the Greek people are not going through anything, by nothing. Now let's talk seriously. First of all, Mr. Hatzidakis, let me tell you that I'm taking you out of the frame. That is to say, your targeting has bothered me as well at the level of moral and human level - a minister is poorly targeted - but I am mostly politically disturbed. Because the reality is that you are systematically targeted by everyone, even by the friendly media, for just one reason, because - forgive me the expression - you are in a way the "shoulder" of the case. I know, it's a market look. Let me say it differently. You are the one in front of hiding “Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.”. I also say that in the light of the fact that it is a matter of knowledge. I know well. You can't be the Minister Ballaire. Where there is a terrible difficult mission, inhumane for Greek interests, inhumane for the Greek people, Kyriakos Mitsotakis finds you, "takes you", puts you in the right place, to be instead of him in his place. So away from us at Mera25. We do not have them with any Kostis Hatzidakis, we have them with what “Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.” represents. I come to your argument now, my Minister, Mr Mitsotakis' argument, that if I am not mistaken and correct me, you are here to tell me that I am wrong or that I am right. You say you want to regulate a situation. The situation, you say, which we have described as a fisherman is a situation that has prevailed for many years. So who's doing eight hours? The eighth is practically abrogated. So who employees manage to have collective agreements? The vast majority have been unable to have collective agreements for ten years. Your argument, then, if I'm well aware, is that in fact we are the Utopian obsessive leftmen who see seaweeds as silk ribbons and imagine a working environment perfectly, while reality has passed us, has robbed us, has any working rights of people disappeared and what are you coming to do? You are simply coming to put a order in the chaos of anti-government legislation that already exists or of anti-government legislation - better - which is already deeply focused on the labour market around us. I am telling you directly, Minister: who is to blame? I agree. That's exactly the situation. It's so disgusting that the workers laugh at us when we tell them that the target must be at the transient hour. They say 'good, sit down and leave at sixty-hours, and we're talking about it for the thirty-five hours'. I ask you directly: is it me, Claus Gregoriadis, because of Mera25, is it the abstract, cursed, abstract five-month negotiation of Varoufakis? Or is it because of the memorial policies and what we followed as Brussels captives for ten years? Mr Hatzidakis, it is still not personal, but you were the Minister of Government Samaras, the Minister of Development, as your first time here in this present government. I was in my house. Not long - to play at the theater at that time. In any case, I could not influence what has been said in any way. However, those of you who have ruled, Mr Samaras, Mr George Papandreou before you, the various governments - zombies who had no logic, no parliamentary support - had legalised them by the people with elections, by the various Pirates, with stories of bitter media, of the various retired people of the Ice Bay, etc., who were called to rule in the position of politicians, another anomaly, you have ruled over the years that all the jobs have disappeared. And you know? It is most blurred and challenging to look at a people in the eyes and to say to him "for ten years, one of PASOK, one of the New Democracy and one of SYRIZA's New Democracy, we have disappeared all your work rights and now why are you protesting that we are coming to put a state stack on the state that this will be institutional now, will all your work rights disappear?" But because, Mr. Hatzidakis, it's a huge difference between having rights in the zuca in an awkward situation. Another abnormal effect is to lose some rights. And everyone expects to be restored sometime at last with the help of God and Panagia, the abnormal situation, so that we can reach the normal normal state that was before. When a government comes, Mr. Hatzidakis, and says, "You know what? It has become a land of midwife, there is no eight hours, there are no collective agreements, and I do not want to be blind, I will vote to no longer have collective contracts, I will vote for individual contracts, I will say that Gregoriadis and Niarchos are equal when they negotiate for a place that other five hundred Gregorides are outside and kick Gregoriadis down to take the place, eat some bread and their children." You will thus institutionalise legalization. And be careful. Let me give you an example of this, Mr Hatzidakis. If every night a Besigoth gang was invading your home and convicted you when it wasn't for the tenants, and for months you've been trying to put up with this gang action, not to enter your house today, not to enter your house tomorrow and not to make it, failed, what would you do? Would you legislate on the legitimacy of the gang's invasion, so you wouldn't be fooling yourself? Mr. Hatzidakis, Mr. Mitsotakis, this is your argument, that it is a gang that steals from us ten years, has put our hands in the pockets, in the pants, in the brain, through our clothes. And because it has become a situation after ten years, the right thing is not to be mocked, the right thing is to say that the Greek Parliament is voting to steal us dead, not until 2060 that ends the SYRIZA memorandum. I say that's not the case. Because it is another thing that the middle-aged worker enters the window and another thing rounds up in the living room and the Prime Minister is not to be blushed by shame. Now, logic, of course, leads all the forces of the place to restore normality. What we all want here is to have collective agreements - commemorating, everyone has said so - and it is not going to continue this chaos. Watch out now! Let us look at the big picture and I will be done soon, Madam President, I will not be far away. The big picture is, I think, enlightening about what this particular heavy and inhuman, anti-human bill means. So look, two minutes with me, the big picture. You've been running for two years. Do you know what you've done these two years you've been ruling? You have dived out in every way the wealth of people, residents and the public wealth of this country. How'd you do that? By divestments of the Greek type. Here, Latsis, loan of 7 billion, put 2 billion in your pocket and proceed with the Greek people's money. So with the Greek, which will also bring casinos everywhere. And that's money from the pockets of Greek taxpayers going out, because casino owners are out. Also, with hydrocarbons extracts in the Aegean Sea, in Ionian Sea, in Crete, with gold mining in Skouria Halkidiki. Public wealth, leaving outside again. We would get 18 million in four years of the hydrocarbons that, thank God, were never mined! That was your deal! billions took three Dutch and a U.S. multinational! So you dive me in the way I told you, like in Skouries. Parasitic multinationals get all that money! And I come to the plan "HRAKLIS" and the detoxification of the banks with the red loans of the fucarades, taken by the "HRAKLIS", take the foreign funds, the "paracious" funds at the price of 4% of their actual objective value, which you have already dramatically increased! 4%! If they sell it 5%, they get a profit! But, because you're already afraid that these predators will not be able to sell it at 5% of the objective value, what are you doing? You guarantee them 12 billion euros of the Greek people that if they don't get their money, you will give them it! Also, a new bankruptcy code, where everyone can get the home of a poor man whose memorials have "skided" him - I'm sorry again for the market expression - and he cannot pay off a loan that has been made from EUR 50,000 in two years, except for him! Only yourself with your Policy Code is forbidden to reclaim the verb of his home at the price that will get him the "rapid" fund. You prefer to take the house of Mr. - Georges the "parallel" fund, rather than Mr. - Georges hold it! You don't give him the same money! So I say that all of this could find a legalisation, an excuse in the minds of some if they were to compete - the famous word 'competitive' - in the Greek economy. Go away, Almond, don't! All international models say - something you know better than me, because you're neoliberal, I'm a marxist - that, unfortunately, there's no growth when you rip, when you rip, when you can serve, when you squeeze out the workers' oil. And there is no growth for certain reasons. Be careful, Mr. Hatzidakis: I'm not confusing profitability. Profitability on the government's "parasitarian friends" will even be huge profitability. Development in the companies won't exist! Do you know why? Why do you know what they're doing with the money you've given them so many years with seas and other ways all of this, whether it's the National Bank, whether it's Alpha Bank or Eurobank? They take 2 billion, 4 billion, I do not remember how much, as Alpha Bank has just taken from you, and they spend it in the beam, so that their bank does not go bankrupt for a millennium time. So what are they doing? They go immediately to the Athens Stock Exchange, which does not exist, is "appropriate", and they buy their own shares. They buy their own shares, because if the stock price rises, the parasitic bonus that you're sponsoring will increase, it will go 2 million this semester! They don't care if the bank flies again, since you're going to go state-owned it again, to give it back to them then a alleged privatization at 10% of the value you bought it. And I close, Madam President, from this point of view. So no development is going to come, according to Henry Ford, who was a few-farmer but not a parasitic oligarch. You know, he's the one who even today his family makes Ford. First of all, at this point, I would also like to reply to the question of the Communist Party of Greece about what is the difference between parasitic and other oligarchy, since, as you say, the oligarchy is the same. Oh, no! The normal oligarch gets "seawater", gets subsidies from the Greek state, gets everything, our money, and with it he produces something and sells it bitterly. The "parasitarian gets all this, increases his bonus in the way I described a minute ago and produces nothing! Most of the parasitics in Greece have left nothing! Henry Ford, however, produced the famous "Model T". And you know what he said? He said this in his famous saying that he has survived for two centuries now: If the latter, the poorest, the lowest paid worker of my industry, is unable to buy with his own savings "Model T", then in the long term it is fatal to go bankrupt, to go bankrupt. This is why this model, the famous model of competitiveness, is not functional. No competitiveness! Profitability is boosting! And I close, Madam President, with that phrase. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, is not going to be passed. However, I am not tempted to borrow the words of my friend and comrade, Mrs Apazidos, and to tell you that the bill should not be passed at all. However, we warn you that if it is voted, this government will be repaid by the Greek people on a permanent day off forever. Just like you give them the day off to pay off their overtime, so they will give you the day off from the country's political life! However, dear and dear friends of the New Democracy, do not be intimidated by this possibility, as when you take your permanent day off, you will have all the time to go well, nice to gather the olives in your village or have, you will judge it, much more and interesting and pleasant time with your families and children! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Simopoulos has the floor from New Democracy. Here, Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, others have attempted to put New Democracy in a time of history. The New Democracy has been present here for almost fifty years. For two years, both within and outside Parliament, we have been in the same spectators' work. How do the plot of the project take place? On the one hand, we have a government that brings bills on the axes of logic and regularity, and on the other, we have the opposition to lift the banners or say it saracanica, without being a Saraksanus, the flambours within Parliament and on the sidewalk with protesters who are most professional trade unions or who belong to the hard partisan core. Citizens do not follow, whether in university asylum or in limiting demonstrations depending on their volume, in the creation of undergraduate sections of foreign languages at universities or in the abolition of the process of dismissal until today's working bill. We also observe the JRC and its associates at SYRIZA screaming for a junta, for an anti-democratic catastrophe and for the democratic acquis and the manipulation of unions. We heard before, maybe I didn't hear well or maybe Mr. Katrugalos wanted to say something else about counter-revolutionary moves. You said so, Mr. Catrugale, toward the end. Society of course monitors and, above all, feels its results. He knows that it is not normal to paralyse the country by an organised minority of trade unions in the utilities. It is not normal to block a ship with three hundred passengers from a handful, too, trade unionists. It is not normal for the GSC's regular conference to be convened. That is why society responds positively when legislation makes the minimum level of 33% of workers, when strikes are made in public utilities. People want to have light, they want to have urban transport, they want to move, because they live from work and not from benefits. Also normality is when there is civil responsibility for those who block the right to work and when the digital recording of trade unions is introduced. It is not normal for a strike to be declared illegal and then re-appointed by the secondary body. For this, there is a reaction from those who think that they have taken on the defence of workers, as well as the environment. But, as in the environment, in the rights of workers, your government is politicizing you, ladies and gentlemen, of counter-population. Because what else can be the charitable provisions on paternity leave, parental leave to be paid by the OAS, the possibility of disconnecting the worker when working by teleconferencing and the measures on sexual harassment at work? Such measures are also the licensee, the ban on the dismissal of fathers, the equilibrium of compensation and the dismissal of employees and workers, and, of course, the protection of young people working in the distribution of food. I now come to the question of the adjustment of working time, the head of the anti-population spear. You are relying on the employer's genuinely privileged position towards the worker. But is this something not happening today? Is there, today, a framework of protection particularly in the medium and small enterprises, where there are no operational or sectoral contracts? Oh, no. Unprotected is the worker from the so-called bad employer. And this bill comes to protect it with the digital card that will be connected to the "ERGANI II" system in real time, but also with the upgraded Labour Inspectorate, which is also made an Independent Authority. Ladies and gentlemen, it can be the right thing to do, but there is also the employer and, of course, society. This is not, therefore, a bill which makes employment relations more flexible and does not relate to the overtime arrangement, which is increasing to the European Union's average. All of its arrangements are reasonable and are in line with normality. Those workers who want to live from their work will embrace it. Unemployment is already falling. New and well-paid jobs are being created. The economy is already moving in the field of investment and construction in a very positive direction. Big international players take their place. In spite of the cries, then, of those who have not understood that in Greece for decades of bad rust, the country has been moving on. And, of course, we all understand who I mean 'bad rust'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Now Mr. Famelos has the floor from SYRIZA for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, you will allow me to begin by saying good strength and good success to our children who are giving their examinations today, because they must overcome all the obstacles of a difficult year, but also the obstacles which Mr Mitsotakis and Mrs Keramea have put in the way of limiting importers. And I am talking about the regulation that Mr Mitsotakis refused, in violation of the Rules of Procedure, to come here to discuss, as he did three times, which was repeated on Friday last Friday when he did not come here to place for the New Democracy loans that increased EUR 120 million during his Presidency. I have to say, Madam President, that it was an extreme incident that the President of SYRIZA's impoverished Alexis Tsipras had. It is a slap in democracy, because in the end Parliament's rules apply only when they are of interest to the New Democracy. When they don't care about her, so much worse about the rules. The fact that Mr Mitsotakis has not come to Parliament shows that he had nothing to say about either the children and their struggle or the debts of the New Democracy and their evacuation. However, it is so negative that the impact of the Hatzidakis bill, which I am not allowed to discuss any more on these major issues of undemocratic violations that the New Democracy and the Greek Parliament are making. The Mitsotakis government over the last two years has declared the war both to workers and to society as a whole. It deepens the crisis, reduces incomes, creates precariousness and unemployment. The Hatzidakis anti-democratic bill is the leading proof of the anti-popular and anti-democratic identity of the New Democracy and restores the faculty of liberal politicians. Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Mitsotakis want to bring the final blow to the world of work. It is worse than the memorandum and at the same time it affects both small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and the world of trade. This is the New Democracy, memorials for all, limitations for all and a few friends who speak directly with the system of power to settle. At the same time, we have an increase in unfinished pensions. It is a shame, Mr Hatzidakis, that hundreds of thousands of pensioners are faced with the range of poverty today. At the same time, seizures go on, because not even the vehicle that protects vulnerable households in the Banking Code has been built, while the working population of the country is constantly falling, the number of people employed and we are falling under working conditions, in employment, in hours, in wages, under and out of many Balkan countries. But what's this bill doing? First of all, it abolishes the eighth hour, imposes the ten-hour reduction in pay, since they are not paid overtime. The working hours in the tenth hour are arranged by an individual contract, leaving the worker vulnerable and unprotected, which is also noted by the Scientific Service of the Parliament. We are practically driving in a week of fifty hours of work and, indeed, it is something that will be allowed for months. It's a motto in the bill. Instead of going to Europe of innovation, taking advantage of science, new technologies, in order to make use of young Greeks and Greek scientists, we are going backwards. It also imposes the waste working hours even on parttime. It calls for the low pay to be paid to overtime, cheap overtime by doubling them, and finally leads to employment in 12 hours. Is this your vision, Mr. Hatzidakis, for young children, for young people and young scientists and scientists? So, finally, we reach 12 hours of work, with a reduction in pay and a reduction in recruitment, as it tends to tire them out - based on the needs of the labour force alone. I would say, in fact, not all employers, but the great and best friends of the system of power. But so, you intensify 'brain', you discourage young people from investing in our country to claim knowledge. In addition, the bill extends Sunday work, but also the forced leave to the detriment of the worker. It destroys collective agreements and leads to uncontrolled redundancies, since even the entitled worker will not return to work. It does not protect the worker from unfair, by decision of the court, redundancies and carries out an unprecedented attack on trade union rights, freedoms and the right to strike. It demonstrates, in particular, the arrangements against trade unions, unions and strikes, how far-right the policy of both the Minister of Labour and Mr Mitsotakis is. Mr Hatzidakis aims - and he states - at the intimidation of trade unionists and workers, because he also carries them civil responsibilities. A total of Chapter D is tragic. That's what the House's Scientific Service says. I think that's worth making it clear. The Scientific Service of the Parliament, on the system for regulating working time, on individual agreements and on four-day work and on civil liability in trade unionism, is clearly against the bill. But I would like to respond to a dilemma that Mr Hatzidakis has often put forward. Is it, uh, the bill in line with the needs of the workers? I wonder, Mr Hatzidakis, will the abolition of the Sunday holiday give the workers quality and quality of family life? Mr Hatzidakis, will the waste hours in part-time work give workers a job or a quality of pay? Mr. Hatzidakis, is working hours 7: 00 at dawn, with 22:30 at night in supermarkets? For these are the arrangements of your government. If Mr Hatzidakis wants to help the mother, then he will now - and we vote together - give her a three-hour vote, as is the case in Europe, or give her fewer working hours, give the workers, the young family, to meet the needs of family life. So, if you want, here and now, we will enhance the problem of demographics, we will overthrow sub-natality and social insecurity and not the darkening conferences with strange economics from behind that half the Ministerial Council participates and has not given up the cancellation of the conference. Nobody can help, ladies and gentlemen, his family if he works fifty hours a week, no family, no sick. Because we heard vulgar arguments here in the House from Members of the New Democracy who even questioned sick leave. It is clear that the New Democracy leads us far behind the ERA of '50 and '60. A century ago these issues were resolved. But if you want to make it clear how much Mr. Hatzidakis supports the workers, I will remind you of the PPC bill. Mr. Hatzidakis recommended in the autumn of 2019 the abolition of the SAEP, in order to enter with ruffles and from the back of workers, the abolition of collective agreements for young workers in PPC to take the lowest, while the "blue" children have reached a point of voting overtones of 350,000 euros. And I say, Mr Hatzidakis: why don't you give your Blue strains to PPC as bonuses? Why, Mr Hatzidakis, would you allow with a temper at the expense of consumers to take over the "blue" children, while consumers, workers, households pay 20% more energy because of you, while the Greek industry denounces that there is manipulation of energy prices? Your choices, Mr. Hatzidakis, are to pay expensive households to settle a few "blue" children while selling with your own options and the gas network and the medium voltage network. You have given the "ELELANDS" to the Latsis Group, because that is your policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u188	You have to close down, Mr. Comrade. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u189	As you can see - and I close, Madam President - there is no benefit to the workers, the Greek society from this policy. It is also the solution and the elasticity of the work that the employers have been asking for. The overtime is not asked by the worker, the employer asks them, and the Mitsotakis Government does not have any rules in Greece, nor quality work, and will have good wages, and will not have any controls. So you are also at stake in the health and safety of work, which is a major element in progress. Just say it - and this is what I am closing, Madam President. There are no economies that have been upgraded when work has been downgraded, when wages have been downgraded, when working conditions have deteriorated. This is a sub-development sample. You are not allowed to turn Greece into the middle ages of work. We cannot go back to the 21st century in Greece, when workers worked night and night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u191	That is why a progressive government is required to overthrow these regulations if, despite all the shame that you have voted on at the end of the debate. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u192	Thank you too, Mr Colleague, but you have delayed me too. Mr Rusopoulos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, by attending the meeting in committee on television, of course, from my computer, and this morning I have the impression that aggressive determinations have gone far enough and that oblivion has spared too many things. Top example and I think it was the top moment of Kostis Hatzidakis' speech, the reference to Directive 1158 of 20 June 2019. He said that this directive, which SYRIZA brought in, and could leave it for a month after the New Democracy government came to us - it was obvious - and to load it on us, made an adjustment of the working hours for certain categories, flexibly flexibly, which the Qualifying Opposition currently accuses the government of bringing all the private sector and, above all, there - to remind everyone - where there are no collective unions. We all know - and we have at least four major businesses - that there is an hour arrangement, that is, one can work ten hours a day four days a week and sit down three days a week, be on Monday by Thursday, Friday, Saturday, Saturday, Sunday, I rest and this is happening to OTE, Alpha Bank, HBH and the company 'PAPASTRATO', which just last week took credit as the best company in various areas, and the behaviour towards its employees and the bonuses that it gives to both the quality of its work, from international houses and also from Greeks for precisely these achievements. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to remind you that it was the Antonis Samaras government which imposed a very high fine, with Giannis Vrutsi, then Minister, EUR 10 500 if my memory is not cheating on me, for those who violate the legislation on insurance funds, the insurance of workers. Kostis Hatzidakis comes today and puts a corresponding fine too high for those who violate rules set by the bill. For example, if someone from the Labour Inspectorate hired an employer to violate the overtime rule, then it would oblige him to pay 80% more for overtime. Now it will have to pay 120% extra per hour overtime and 10,500 euros fine. If this is not in favour of the worker, then of course I am not going to convince you of anything else. It is not easy, surely it is not easy to convince me that it is not a positive measure of parental leave, which, for the first time, is introduced in our homeland, of 14 days and of four months total in the first two years when a young father has a child. That is to say, it is equal to society and the father when it comes to the rights he has and the obligations he has, so the rights and obligations of his wife and his wife when a child is born. I cannot be convinced that he cannot consent to what is coming for the first time and impose, because the rules of recent times, that is, society, international society, sexual harassment have changed and have rightly changed. And that is respect for the worker, the working woman and the working man. The workers' equation has also been consistently demanded by the JRC for decades. The formation of the trade unions becomes much simpler, much easier. And of course here I understand that we have the great controversy with the JRC, with SYRIZA and, more generally, with the opposition. I'll give you a small example of my experience. I close forty years of cash in August, as we say. My fund is the journalists' fund. I kept getting invitations to the general conventions. The first invitation came, a general meeting in this month, required 75% of the employees. Second, new: the presence of 50%, 35%. We reached a point where of almost five thousand journalists at that time - I do not know how many people are now in the U.S.S.A. - appeared around a hundred and fifty with two hundred in the Constitutional Association room and decided on the rest. And I am going to the essential point, which is about the electronic vote. Ladies and gentlemen, we all have an electronic card and we vote here many times. Of course you'll tell me we're present. It happened with the pandemic that we had to vote and while we were away from here. But we have typical examples. I recently read an article in Andreas Drymiotis' Sunday "Kathimerini", which says in October 2019 the US defence ministry signed a 10 billion-billion-dollar contract with "MICROSOFT" to store in the "slee" in the cloud. That is the most confidential information the American Pentagon puts it in the "slee". BP, a big company, does the same in December 2019. Two elections have already been held in Estonia, where people vote electronically, from a distance, and this has attracted a huge proportion of young people to participate in the elections, while they did not go to the polls before. I am not going to expand, there are other examples. I will close with a reference to what Giorgos Katrugalos mentioned earlier as psychological violence, said from the side of Thanassis Paphie, if I remember well. There is here a controversy between the collective and the individual, and the government does not want this bill, nor does it bring this controversy. We do not compare the individual to collectively. In other words, the individual message that began on the phone of someone or someone in Egypt led to Tahrir Square millions of people, who then led to the fall of regimes that have been dictating the way they troubled citizens for years. We have examples in the modern world where individualism can become very easily collective. Do we have psychological pressure on the workers? Of course we have, of course, and there's been psychological pressure. Alas. Who can't admit that? We have the possibility now, there is this technology that some of you denounce the possibility of this psychological pressure being reversed and posted online, publicized information, knowledge and ability through this individual to prevail if not collective, but at least to attract the individual more people from the initial unit that started the race. It's not the squirrel on the plain, it's not Marinos Antypapas alone anymore. There are many who can come to this process, strengthen this policy, strengthen the political rights that are made collectively and which remain collectively and are not abolished by this law. So the approach to ignore the factor of what power a person has in my opinion in this time is completely wrong. Once, ladies and gentlemen, the message was starting with a transmitter, it was power, it was the employer and it went to a receiver. The 1980s, to which Mr Katrugalos referred with Thatcher, was about that or just that and with the classic media, Mr. Today the message has multiple recipients and mainly multipliers. Capacities and forces are very different than they were in the past. Let us not underestimate the individual and his potential. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u194	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Marinos from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Madam President. Thousands of strikers, thousands of protesters condemned and demanded the withdrawal of the government abortion. They conflicted with employers' terrorism, the falsehoods of government officials, but also the dishonesty that the bill gets improvements, that the strikes have no meaning. Break your face, gentlemen of the government. You called the seamen's strike illegal and had 100% success, with the great support of the crew. Today we denounce that the Shipowners' Union has tabled insurance measures again. But you should know, Mr Hatzidakis, that these forms of repression and violence have been tackled for decades by the naval movement. The strike, the strike gatherings, the mass demonstrations of the PAMM make you whine. Sacrifice, heroism in hundreds of workplaces. And you haven't seen anything yet. Promote the overturns of the century to load this capitalist crisis on the workers, to give the billions of the Recovery Fund, the memorial to the entrepreneurs of the green and digital economy that you all praise. Employees draw conclusions. All parties, other than the JRC, agree to set up working time that is a operating mechanism to increase intensification, flexibility and unpaid work. All parties, except the JRC, support the so-called 'best practices', the reactionary overthrows of the European Union that opened the way to settlement with thirteen hours of work a day, separated working time into active and inactive, extended flexible forms of employment. The Government of New Democracy steps in the anti-corruption framework passed by PASOK and maintains SYRIZA who imposed a law for a 12-hour work on hospital doctors. Together you voted for the Memorandum, many anti-corruption measures, together you abolished the collective bargaining and made the minimum wage at EUR 650 mixed. That's why we tell SYRIZA to leave these opportunistic moves on progressive, etc. President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: One government worse than that, in order to serve the strategy of capital, by shaping the working jungle that gave birth to this monstrosity, Mr Hatzidakis, which abolishes the eighth hour, fixed daily working time and imposes ten hours' work with two hours of unpaid overtime - that's what you forget to say in your places - with air reward unpaid off, when the agency likes it. You are stealing the labour force, seeking to seduce workers with the so-called individual agreements, which are at the core of reactionary changes. You legalize employers' extortion. At only two hours of work, three hours are needed for the reproduction of the labour force, the others are worthy, capitalist gain. That's what you want to increase. Count the hours of work referred to in Article 57: We have eight hours plus one hour cheap overtime, plus three hours overtime, twelve hours a day and half an hour's break, which you do not count as working time, exterior work at work or by teleworking at home and on the other part working hours for workers to be all day in the service of their operators. This barbarism will be recorded by the so-called 'vote card'. In the 21st century where technology allows for a great reduction in working time, you turn the workers to the beginning of the twentieth century. This is capitalism: sunlight work, exploitation, unemployment, accidents, redundancies. Remove Sunday's holiday, overcoming workers and self-employed, generalizing SYRIZA's legislation, which established thirty-two business Sundays for commerce. You're elasticating parents' lives. The so-called balance of family and professional life is a vehicle for reactionary measures. Class hatred takes off at the strike and trade union activity, which is treated as criminal acts. You are making use of the law of SYRIZA that imposes 50% participation of financially well-integrated members for a strike decision. Use the remote vote to dismantle the collective processes, the general assemblies of unions. You're putting the trade unions together, you're trying to terrorize yourself with the threat of civil liability. You have come to prevent the strike right of secondary or tertiary trade unions from being prevented if the strike of a union is unlawful. Hundreds of thousands of unemployed are tortured and you remember the right to work to support the strike! Your abortion provides for a 1/3 of workers working in utilities beyond security personnel. You want to block the claiming struggle, but you're off night. You're with the workers, Mr. Hatzidakis, on the same boat. What you are shaking is the massive class struggle against anti-Flemish politics, monopolies and capitalism for labour-people needs. Your nerve won't save you. The government has declared war on the workers and will be devastated like previous governments. The working class will throw the abortion into the trash, will strengthen the struggle for seven hours, five days, thirty-five hours, collective labour contracts, increases in wages, abolition of the anti-corruption measures of the New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA. It will go to the counterattack to overthrow the power of capital to abolish the exploitation of human beings. That's progress. This serves people's needs and this is your nightmare. Workers will not be slaves in the 21st century! Everybody in the race! The new strike mobilization on Wednesday! The class struggle shows the way and will give the final answer. The JRC is in the front line with many thousands of workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Mr Stamenitis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have started the debate in plenary today on updating and changing the labour legislation, which many have been raped to reject before they even read it, thus proving once again the size of their hypocrisy and of the isopidemic rhetoric that they have chosen to follow. These are elements of the counter-population that we see today unfolding in an attempt to create impressions, but which also falls into the void. And it falls into the void, because very simply the bill of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is undoubtedly an incision to our country's labour and restores injustices, resolves old issues and tackles today's real problems for the workers, especially for women and young people, as we have repeatedly pointed out. In addition to this, it creates a favourable framework and participates decisively in the achievement of the basic objective of this government and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the creation of a productive Greece, which is moving in the future with an optimism, leaving behind the pathogens and burdens that still held it static. This is also achieved by harmonising the labour law framework with socio-economic and technological developments. The Government of New Democracy and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs implement a large and necessary reform in the field of labour. We have in front of us a legislative initiative, with basic principles strengthening the worker's position, flexibility and increasing the competitiveness of Greek businesses. Because we have heard too much over recent years, it is necessary to emphasise once again that today's bill is mainly about strengthening the position of workers. Because, ladies and gentlemen, it is aid when we legislate forecasts to combat undeclared work by applying the digital card. We have said this in an election that our main objective is to ensure that labour legislation is respected through the use of e-government and new systems, always for the protection of the world of work. It is support for workers when we legislate on changes that ensure transparency and efficiency in controls, which will result in the upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate to an independent administrative authority. Apparently, you have allergy to the independent authorities. You like the party state. It is also a support for workers to be able to adjust working time, which offers other people the choice of planning family and personal obligations. The eighth hour is not going to happen, nor is there any of these things going to happen that you're saying these days. Also, the bill comes with a social person. It extends benefits and facilities through authorisations for parents and caregivers, while measures are taken to effectively address violence and harassment at work. It also incorporates a number of regulations, which the rapporteur of the New Democracy has analysed in detail, and I am referring to briefly. These are regulations concerning health and safety at work, the creation of a framework for protecting trade union rights for workers on digital platforms, the equilibrium of the compensation of workers with those of employees, teleworking, strengthening the authorised overtime on the European average and extending the protection of workers against vacant redundancies. They are all regulations that modernise the legislative framework while adopting good European practices. Unfortunately, however, for the country, opposition cannot follow Greece's attempt to transform. It cannot understand the changes that are taking place globally and the new challenges that are being opened before us, and therefore it is unable to participate in the dialogue on the country's development the next day, the modernisation of structures and the final passage in the future. You question, ladies and gentlemen, any change. You are against every reform initiative. You constantly question the government's ability to implement what is legislating, achieving and achieving the objectives. But every time you fall out. Every time, the reality comes and disobeys you. For example, success in the large vaccination operation. You thought it was unlikely to reach the twenty-five thousand vaccinations a day and today more than a hundred thousand fellow citizens are vaccinated every day. You were ironic about the digital pension “ITLAS” that starts and works. On Thursday's application, the old-age farmer, in July, payment. You do the same in work, you get trapped in your contradictions. You don't know where to agree and where to disagree. You come without suggestions, only with a denouncing speech on hollows, rollers, galley workers and other such anachronistics, but society does not embrace them, nor does it even listen to them. You bet on the reactions, but you were disappointed, no matter what you say here today, by the results of the participation. Again, the acquaintances went down the road to claim stagnation and regression. We saw it in Pella, thirty people in the mobilizations. So big reactions! We're not talking about participation rates. Mr Hatzidakis asked you the questions quite rightly, and I put them to you today. Would you stand against parental leave arrangements? Will you vote against the arrangements for the workers or for teleworking? Are you against the privileges and facilities to workers in delivers and couriers? Will you vote against the fines of EUR 10,500 to circumvent the overtime law? I suspect, ladies and gentlemen, that something else you will find these three days so that you do not answer these questions. Ladies and gentlemen, we have said that the current government has brought together a number of bills which implement one - one of its election commitments and implement the programme that it has presented to Greek citizens by election, and for which they have chosen it as government rather than you. We believe that no time should be wasted to implement all these necessary changes, not least. We have proved this and with the fact that pandemic was not an alibi for delays or retreats from positions, but much more an opportunity to 'run' more quickly for what needs to be done. The Prime Minister and the government are determined to put Greece on the European road, to transform Greece into a modern country that is a leading country and does not follow developments. In this direction, they do not hesitate to take decisions, to move on to reforms and, above all, to collide with old and worn-out. And this legislative initiative is part of this effort, which will be justified by its implementation, by changing the landscape to work. That is why I invite you to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u198	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr. Igoumenides has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill that came today for a vote in this House does not surprise me. Because this in its place is the anti-democratic, authoritarian, anti-corporate face of the Government of New Democracy, as we have known it and from everything it has legislated so far. First of all, it is the ultimate state, behind fat and large words, that is the ultimate control by the staff of Mr Mitsotakis of neo-algal services, such as the National Intelligence Service, the General Secretariats of the Ministries, the ERT. Let us then see and live a bar of anti-democratic regulation and in some cases non-transparent funding aimed at controlling the country's systemic media. The costs of universities, not education or research, have been increased between now and the year 2000. After all, you have made sure that twenty-five thousand less are involved. And if you think, because there is no collective expression, that parents are not concerned with this thing, I will tell you, Minister and Madam Secretary, by paraphrasing the well-known song "This people, my Ministers, do not know much". Let you rest in that you do not see organized collective resistance. I am not surprised at this bill because there was a precursor to the Pissaridis report. What I have as a question is this. In a world, around the world, in the consciousness of Greek society today pandemic puts aside neoliberal logic. How, while this is the case as a whole, does the Government of New Democracy come and restore the political logic of the memoranda and the troika in terms of work, by further contraction of labour rights and the elasticization of labour relations? I would say that the New Democracy Government, not only, does not create imperialities in the social consequences of the multiple crisis that we are experiencing, but is equally accelerating the social catastrophe. You know, I watched closely the speeches of colleagues who preceded all parties. I see the New Democracy colleagues standing in some pieces of the puzzle, in some parts of the overall picture. And the fact is that the government in this bill brought the ratification of international conventions, brought the digital card. Yeah, accepting it's a positive arrangement. However, these pieces of the puzzle do not capture the overall picture. And here's the thing. I hope that such parallel monologues will not continue. I believe that all opposition parties should also respond to what the New Democracy colleagues have to say. But I would like to stand not in the puzzle pieces, but in the overall picture. He said the colleague who spoke before me that SYRIZA cannot monitor Greece's transformation effort. We barely disagree in the overall picture. In our challenges, the Left, the democratic party, responds with the promotion of another productive model which not only recognises the role of work, which will make it a driver for growth. What's your proposal? What's your vision? Reductions in wages, reductions in pensions, and where we're not reduced by workers, redundancies. We experienced this during the memorial period at the time when for you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, and if we had no troika, we had to invent. And so where we see and see destruction of productive powers, deregulation of work, impoverishment of society. You have seen and seen an investment magnet, economic recovery conditions, side losses. That is why Greece is not surprised that you have reached 30% with your governance and handling of unemployment, 60% of youth unemployment, in this huge poverty of the whole social groups. The second thing we disagree about is that, gentlemen of the New Democracy, we for Greece for our future starting point consider building a stable framework for labour relations. We consider the starting point to strengthen the negotiating power and the availability of workers' incomes. We want a framework of working rights that is strong so that every worker can feel safe and really productive. You want the deregulation of labour rights because, entangled in your ideas, you believe that cheap labour power is a proponent growth force. We want a strong social state. You want a lesser state. We knew it, both the workers and the entire Greek society in how you dealt with the public health system and public education. We want a better future for the youth of our country, which will slowly take the fate of the country into their hands. The disgrace of underprivileged wages, the awkwardness of unemployment for young people, the fact that your Party is watching the departure of young people abroad show what you want for the new generation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall close, Madam President, and thank you. I ask for your tolerance for ten seconds. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, concerns every citizen, every worker, either the private or the public sector, who is concerned about every unemployed person and every young person. In our view, industrial relations and the protection of the work of society as a whole are a matter of racing. In these struggles, be sure that the Left, the democratic party, will be in the front line. The deregulations promoted by the New Democracy are deeply unpopular and deeply anti-antagonistic. Be sure, they will be abolished as soon as a progressive government is allowed to restore society and the place in a direction of social cohesion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u200	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, decent work should be at the core of global national and local strategies aimed at economic and social development. But what is happening today to modern Greek reality? Is anyone interested in the survival of the modern Greek family being plagued by the continuing crises or the situation of the unemployed who daily feel the humiliation of the state who, instead of providing them with a job, leads to literal impoverishment? Do you really know what the cost of a family's fixed costs is for the absolutely necessary? Greece, according to a recent report from the European Trade Union Confederation prepared by a group of researchers and universities, is in the last place among the other European Union countries in the decent labour index. Furthermore, our country in 2019 was backed up by the level at which it was in 2010 in terms of ranking based on the index for decent work and sustainable development. The need for survival forces many people to accept job proposals that do not recognise and respect their rights and instead of their personality being underestimated and insulted. This is a dead end and you are unfortunately very far from each Greek and every Greek woman to be able to understand their difficult everyday life. Instead of actually taking into account the current work problems, you are looking at setting up another beginning, overlooking the Constitution itself. And all this because? But, of course, to appoint a few more of your "blue" children. No one's complaining. Instead of actually taking into account today's work problems, you are looking at setting up another independent authority, overlooking the Constitution itself. And all this because? But, of course, to appoint a few more of your "blue" children. No one's complaining. We have gone to the independent authorities, but no one thinks about the pocket of the Greek households, which is empty, if it has not already been completely emptyd from their multitude. And as if not all of this were enough for the Independent Authority or Labour Inspectorate, you give a special bonus bonus scheme to be set within the budget limits of the Labour Inspectorate staff, in the context of his evaluation. Opportunity and dignity have made wings. Tell us how the Labour Inspectorate will check the legality of the employment of third-country workers. It's not specified anywhere. The employer is also given the opportunity to refuse parental leave in the event that the proper functioning of the undertaking is seriously disturbed. Do you think that's how parental leave is guaranteed? There is also an attempt to balance marriage with the cohabitation pact with regard to marriage leave, with which we of course disagree. We also asked during the meetings of the committee, but without a reply, whether legal persons in the associations of persons to whom you refer, which can exercise in the name of the person affected by these provisions before the competent administrative or judicial authorities, will also be NGOs. In this bill too, the authorisations given to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs are almost impressive. And we are impressively saying, because it gives rise to a great deal of impression and even more questionableness, the fact that he can determine the serious medical reasons for granting permission. In Greece, over the last few years, working conditions have been more similar to the Middle Ages, and with this draft law, they have been sinking even further over the ages of working acquired, such as the actual abolition of the eighth hour - it is the first time that contracts have been abolished - and, of course, the hostage status of workers, when you talk about additional work, which can be provided if the worker agrees and working hours which are not continuing with the agreed working hours on the same day. And all this in fear of dismissal. You say that the annually entitled licence must be exhausted until the first quarter of the following calendar year. In other words, in 15 months' time instead of 12 months in order to eliminate the normal licence. With what reason? We also clearly disagree with the dismissal of the obligation to work, following the pronouncing of a complaint, as it is essentially a matter of prosecuting. According to the annual report of the National Institute of Labour and Human Resources for 2020, the impact on Greece due to the coronary is seen in all statistical measurements. The decline in employment both in the increase of redundancies and in the reduction of recruitment appears to be characteristic. The fact is that in March 2020 there was a negative private sector employee balance of 40 thousand nine hundred three jobs, while in the corresponding month of the previous year the balance was positive by forty-three thousand three hundred and seventy-three. This month, in other words, more than eighty thousand jobs were lost. You bring the digital working card without counting the smaller businesses. Will they afford the cost of applying it? Are you interested? Obviously not. Another major wound which we should point out at every opportunity is that our young people, over six hundred thousand, left abroad in the years of the crisis and the memoranda, to find jobs in countries outside Greece and ask for incentives and opportunities to return to our country. We must give it to them. We, in the Greek Solution, believe that in this dreadful work scene that has been formed, your responsibilities are borne solely by you, because you are outside the reality, outside and far away from it. Enterprises are slowing down and on the labour market employment is falling and unemployment is escalating. With this bill, instead of giving a breath to employers and workers, you put another nipple in the neck. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, my colleague. Now Mrs Pipilis from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u203	Ladies and gentlemen, the time is exactly 15.25 seconds on June 14, 2021, and because almost the whole of the Anti-Population in here has remained in ideas beyond things, to let them know that, apart from the rustled and cosmopolitan union, which in their own ideology remains as the driving lever, everything worldwide has changed. I'll tell you slowly so you don't suffer any shocks. I don't know: You have heard that electronic computers, internet, Google, have been invented by teleconferencing platforms, electronic voting and orders in commerce. Even the evil for some sprayed cell phones, this evil can lead a worker, a free trader, if necessary, or an employee to communicate and act as a normal worker for a while. For all of us who have a full picture of what is happening in the global community, we who experience the usefulness of technology, which above all facilitates professional and modern social activity, Kostis Hatzidakis' work bill, with the election signature and stamp of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, always opens up exactly the modernisation of labour law in Greece, according to the regulations that our association with the European Union wants, they like - they do not like some. So I repeat this. Now the time is 15.29' and I stress it, because almost overwhelming and total opposition is trying to convince us with the working bill that the time is three o'clock at midnight. I mean, we call it self-evident. The majority of society now know about writing and reading, and it is very disgraceful that the arguments from all the wards that are reacting, who consider that they are still officials in the Tsausscu regime in Romania, who, in order to complete the wage, could not speak, go out and beg on the main avenues, things that we lived not us, but recorded history. They've changed the data. Workers aren't sheep. They know very well from the outset what this bill is, hence it seemed - to stress this - in their own reactions that have not existed. After all, for two months, especially SYRIZA, the party president, Alexis Tsipras, has been hanging on the media handkerchiefs with the thousands of listened cheetas that the world laughs at: "Workful middle ages, anti-government bill, is abolished the eighth hour, instead of overtime on a fee, compulsory day off." And the "Thurios" of the announcement of battles began. So we were expecting what will happen on Thursday, and more 'important' - in quotes and transport - 'fighting battles' than the one that took place on Thursday in world history has not been recorded, where the workers' masses were missing and they were the well-known trade unionists, politicians and entrenched in general with this system. Trying to repulse with blatant lies and overthrowing the outdated rhetoric almost all here of Antipolitics would just be a waste of time. We will try to do - and it turns out from what the bill says - much safer work, especially in the private sector, which we all recognise requires strict control. In other words, the time arrangement - the workers have understood it - with the time arrangement, which is only forty hours a week. The worker, if he wants, and not his employer, can work two hours longer and have on Friday, for example, the day off to do three days or do whatever he wants. In addition, the working time arrangement, other overtime, which is increasing annually to 50 hours and with the pay strictly provided for in the legislation. Because people are watching us, then, to see what articles you will all be voting against, which are otherwise being cut off for vulnerable social groups. So you will vote against what is legally shielding the legislation on dangerous working conditions, the total lack of security, social and more general, of the dealers and couriers. You, without wanting to come out of the sterile opposition rabbits, go and say from Thursday to your neighbour that you are voting against the first-time application of paternity, leave and banning redundancies and for fathers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] To conclude, whether you vote or do not vote, to see joy and satisfaction from society with the bill, which we are finally getting away with the "davaziki", as the people say, to them all a trade unionist, who decides without a mass demand for workers to close trains, boats, metro, to capture panic citizens, who have the indiscriminate constitutional right to free movement and access to work. It is forbidden to reopen a strike - very important - which has been judged illegal by justice. So we will not have this indifference in the decisions of justice by two, three dull trade unionists, who are blocking without mass employee participation - I stress this - any other move. With all this, a few days ago, thought about it, did you see the image at the port of Piraeus, where suddenly some angry trade unionists tried to encapsulate citizens who wanted to do what they wanted to do? Remember it and have a lesson about how people, the afflicted themselves, reacted and retreated by the trade unionists. And the top line of the year was said by one citizen: "I have five thousand badges, man, will you tell me where you have five hundred?" Ladies and gentlemen, the curtain from the Stamomoulade era has fallen definitively. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, my colleague. Mr. Barkas has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u205	I am very sorry, ladies and gentlemen, that the level of debate on today's bill, an extremely important bill for the majority of workers in the country, has such positions as Members of the Greek Parliament, which characterises trade unions in the way it characterises - dissidents or agrees, such designations, in my opinion, are inconsistent with the Greek Parliament - or characterises any other groups with which some might not agree. Today, therefore, a bill has been introduced to Parliament by a Minister, who said it to the relevant committee of Parliament - Mr Hatzidakis - is again missing - is the one who introduced the theory of New Democracy in 2017, saying that SYRIZA has exchanged pensions with the "Macedonian". So because it now belongs to the leadership of the Ministry of Labour, and I imagine that you also agree, together with the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, with the name of Northern Macedonia, although some of you still think it would be wrong to use it, but at the same time you will come to the vote, Mr Maraveya, in the House, I would like to ask: did Mr Hatzidakis lie at the time that we exchanged pensions with the name of the neighbouring country, northern Macedonia or is it true? And if that's true, can he bring us the evidence? Because if he can't prove it, he's lying, he's a liar Minister. And so all his reference to this bill, which attacks the working rights of workers as we have known so far, as they have claimed for many years now, even through the loss of lives of workers throughout the world, is not just misleading, such as the title of this bill. I imagine that Mrs Euthymou, who, as a lawmaker, knows what we are talking about today, I imagine that this misleading title of this bill, the protection of work, is outside and beyond any imagination. I understand that Mr Chrysochoidis, who comes from another political area, has affected you and you are not reading the bill. You must, however, know some things and not create your own imagination in terms of articles in this bill. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group has been affected by Mr Chrysochide and is constantly falling into errors, unconsciousness, incoherences. You say inconsistency about this bill. You have a European directive, which is about setting up more rights for workers and, in particular, for young parents, for the bill. Ms. Euthymou, you who are a worker and a new mother, please inform the Parliamentary Group of what the 2019 directive said. Because, Mr Maraveya, I was the head of the Ministry of Labour and nothing to do with the settlement of working time, but nothing to do with it at all. You are lying inconsistently about this directive. So you come and say that SYRIZA has caused working time to be settled. But you do it on an individual level. No one has said that the settlement of working time was not in the Constitution and in the laws on collective bargaining, no one has said that. What we are saying, the most serious difference between the two legislations and the two articles, is that it is another thing for the worker to discuss with the employer and it is another thing for the union to discuss. Because, of course, you are on the employers' side and obviously in this debate you are defending the employers, but we are telling you - and it turns out from the reality - that when the employer discusses with the employee no luck of winning, the worker has a chance to win in this debate. You come and make reference to a fine imposed by the Samara Government, Mr. Brutsis, for the EUR 10 500 in terms of changing working hours, etc., and a series of changes, but I would remind you that it was the SYRIZA Government that imposed a fine of EUR 1.5 million on Piraeus Bank for overtime done by Piraeus Bank employees without them being paid. Don't make your mouth like that, Mr. Maraveya, you'll have nothing to do with it. Read you, be aware of what is happening in the country. The Labour Inspectorate and then the Secretary General of the Labour Inspectorate - and then the Deputy Minister - Nassos Iliopoulos, whom I had the luck of succeeding with the Ministry. Piraeus Bank paid 1.5 million euros. What did we do in the Labour Inspectorate? The five hundred workers in the Labour Inspectorate, a number that we received on your own term of office - for the New Democracy term and may come from another party, then New Democracy ran the country in 2012-2014 - we reached them in the Thousands and had tendered for the recruitment of more than a thousand workers in the Labour Inspectorate, so as to increase the safety of workers and control methods. What are you guys doing? You're doing it by a NGO, an anonymous company. Why? But it's a simple reason. When the workers come to the Ministry of Labour to ask the Minister for the floor and say "if not, my Minister, here we work longer, 10 hours, 12 hours" - as you now legislate - "Help us", he will say "no to me, children, go to the independent authority". What independent authority? In the one where you head through the exquisite ones, from this right-hand tank you have created. So here we have the final blow to the workers. You legislate on 10 hours of work, on the increase in overtime, without paying the workers, and you are trying to hide this whole thing from five possible changes that you bring to the bill. Why are you doing this? For a very simple reason. Because you're embarrassed. Because what you are putting today did not tell the Greek people. You barely promised more jobs and better paid. Do the opposite of all this and attack the workers and the workers of the country rampantly. And you're afraid, Mr. Maraveya. Because you may say that the answer to the strike mobilization on Friday, on the 10th day of the month, was small, but it was great! It was the first response of the workers, the trade unions to this legislation. So I invite you to read, because you are impassable. I invite you to learn from Mrs. Euthymou what this bill contains, not to hide behind your finger and to withdraw this bill. It's the only choice you can make to defend the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Loverdos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u207	Madam President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u208	Why, Mr. Comrade? Tell me why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u209	I think that the honourable Member has repeatedly referred to my face, and I think that some issues are not in line with the draft legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u210	Look, my colleague has been placed. You have made your position as rapporteur. I do not think we will be opening a debate now on this matter. There is the parliamentary representative, when he speaks, to be placed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u211	Defend that he was referring to me and to the cultures I did?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u212	It's not personal, my colleague. Please. Come on, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have previously listened to my friend, Clana Gregoriadis - we are different in terms of politics, but I appreciate him because he is a man with humanity and emotion - to use a market expression, as he admitted - but it is what many in opposition believe - that Hatzidakis is the "shoulder" of Mr Mitsotakis. This is not the case, nor is the targeting that you have tried to do at the expense of Mr Hatzidakis, and I am referring to the opposition as a whole. This bill, of course, played a very important role in the writing of Mr. Hadjidakis, but it is not Hatzidakis' bill. It is a bill of law of the Government of New Democracy, which the entire government supports by collective decision. It is a bill with the personal stamp of Mr. Mitsotakis himself, who will come here to the House to defend it. It is a bill for the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group, which - unlike Mr Barkas said - is not only ashamed of us, but we are proud to support and vote with great pleasure. Because it is in what we promised the Greek people: better jobs, better paid jobs, better working relations for the workers. You know, I wondered why SYRIZA put so much emphasis on this bill and he took all the opposition with him. For the JRC, all right, I get it, it's understandable. Why did SYRIZA have such a passion against this bill? Because after so long, we spent two years and a terrible pandemic, SYRIZA cannot recover and thought he found the job to raise it and do the battle. And, indeed, it has tried - because propaganda and targeting are very capable - to pass on the perception in the world that it allegedly overthrows working relations as a whole, that it leads to the abolition of collective agreements, a reduction in wages, an increase in working time. None of this is true. No, it doesn't. It's not increasing working time. No, no pay cuts. No, there's none of this. No, collective agreements are not abolished. Dear Mr Santorinier, you will receive the floor immediately afterwards and you will reply to me. What is happening is a modernisation of labour legislation after a long time in the right direction, and I am sure that in practice the worker, who is not protesting as much as the opposition, is trying to convince him. He'll understand it in practice. Now, you know, the average citizen can't know exactly what the bill includes and can be lured from some of the talk he hears. What will happen and what will happen will be understood in practice. What I know and what I mean to say is why SYRIZA and the opposition insist on this bill. The first reason is a constant stress, in my opinion, that the Left has. Everything about work and the New Democracy, the Right, is against the workers. The right is rival, the left is friendly. This shape does not apply! The New Democracy is a liberal party that is interested in the development of our society, the upgrading of our economy and is a deep folk party that is interested in protecting the Greek people and the worker. And that is what the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and the New Democracy are doing in these two years' time in power and in at least the next six, which will be in power. But there is another reason, which shows why you've been trapped in the past. You don't want to overthrow the privileges of some comfortable trade unionists. We're against the bourgeois trade unionists. We're in favour of workers. But the trade unions who have often brought many problems into this society and the economy and other workers. That is why I do not understand why you do not want the strike to be decided on by all the workers. It's about them! We are in favour of the right to strike. The Constitution provides for it and we fully respect the Constitution, but we are not in favour of the abuse of the right to strike, what has been done by the end of the last thirty - forty years in our country and has led us to many deadlocks from today. The second is that you have some obsessed. I have heard a speaker earlier talking about the abolition of the Sunday holiday that 'you are driving the worker to extinction because you are abolishing the Sunday holiday'. To tell you this truth on Sunday's holiday, as you put it, I never understood it. In other words, the worker who works in a coffee shop selling pizza, selling soups, selling cheese pie can work on Sunday - and it is a friendly policy - but the employee working in a shop selling clothes and shoes should not be working on Sunday and it is an anti-virtual policy! I'm not stuck in my mind because you've been locked up in the past. And you know, progress is not to stay in the past and not to want anything to change. That's a reaction. SYRIZA and Opposition turn into reactionary parties and not progressively, as your party's title says. Progress is to adapt to the huge changes that are taking place in global society and to be able to specialise, present, bring it as legislation, impose it as legislation for the benefit of the Greek people, for the benefit of our country and for the benefit of the workers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u214	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. The Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Madam President. And if you want to sanctify in this Chamber, you can't really. So where can you let Mr. Loverdos fall down now, Giannis, but also two fellow journalists and MPs and Ms. Pipilis before? Mrs. Pipilis, Mr. Loverdos, the time is four but nine minutes first. We have June 14th. I will now tell you what progress will be made. Sit down and listen, we'll tell you what progress has been made and the glasses now. You also taught us progress lessons. You told us backwards, you informed us ironically that computers, tablets, cell phones have been released, that we need to modernise ourselves. To inform my fellow Member that she has informed us that we have modernised and no longer lived in the Middle Ages, that we, you know, went bankrupt. Has anyone told you, or do you live in a time capsule other than you? You might live somewhere else. And you know, the country didn't go bankrupt on its own. "What am I supposed to do today? Let me go bankrupt!' You bankrupt it, with a very large share of responsibility, the largest, the party you serve, which will also teach us in modernization. Your party. Good morning, then, wake up in today's era. That's what today's season says. Do you know what else today says? So today, four more than 14 July, your party owes 340m euros, which will move our fingers and tell us that we have moved forward and have computers and tablets and that we are backwards! We must also inform you, you modern and modern, that with your party in the government, your party, for five months, Erdogan's topographics and drills have taken walks to the Aegean Sea, and we said that the air has taken them, it is noisy, the propellers are heard. Let's talk about this a little. Let us also say that your party, which is modern and modern, while we are the people of the caves, so you told us, your party is what deceived Greeks and Greeks politically and fooled them in the face of Skopje. Here, get Macedonia now in the face and enjoy it. Macedonia, take your pleasure now, the modernists, the modern ones that you referred to and Chuchescu. I'll put it down later in the Minutes, 'cause I have more for you. A lot of stitches. Why don't you at least be quiet, you're causing, you're scratching us! Sit down at least quietly, calmly, pass the monstrosities that are to pass, you have a majority. Hey, don't give up on us. Don't even challenge us! Everything has a limit, Mr. Loverdo. Does that mean progress that you said leaving now? That's it, he says, progress. What I told you is progress, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? Is that all progress? Is bankruptcy, debts, debts, PSI, the poverty of the Greeks, the loss of first home, unemployment, national issues, reduced EEZs all progress? Why are the modernists teaching us about cave people? Nice modernisation! You guys are very modern! We'll miss the sour cherry! We'll miss the sour cherry! This modernization we do not want him! I am not going to go now because Mrs Ceaucescu was mentioned earlier. Well, I don't know if Chuchescu had to tell people to be vaccinated. I don't really know that. I miss that. I don't know if he gave privileges to vaccinated or unvaccinated. He's escaped from me. I will read history and come back to the matter. Now, as far as the bill is concerned, we have said too much, but it really is as if the Minister had it to gather all the fire to him. I do not know whether he seeks or simply anointed him as the 'comanto' - after a superman becoming a pantoon - to make the chestnuts out of the fire. Do you know what reminds me, Minister, Mrs. Syregella, where are you from the government now? Promise one side that there is a calm sea - make a little picture - on the other hand it's dog-switching and crush everything in the middle. That's the picture I've got right now. Working rights, guaranteed freedoms, the Constitution itself. And it really takes superhuman efforts to compose this working middle age, you modernists. But unfortunately, for the hard workers, there's always a superman and Superman is here. So he called himself, Superman, Minister Hatzidakis, for whom the words work, meanings, eight hours are probably unknown. I'll just stand on two points to go to some other issues. Collective labour contracts. We've said it before, we've said it now. This is the first time that the Right Party, the New Democracy, the Liberal Party for you since its payment in 1954, abolishes collective agreements. First time. Go out and say that to the world. Look at the voters in the eye and say 'we abolish collective agreements'. The party of Constantine Karamanlis and all the others. Say it. Modernists. And you're not telling us, the young man who wants to go to work is coming to the boss. "Come here, boy. That's it.' "But they don't do me, I want more." Aah! But listen. I'm not firing you. I don't hire you. Nice! I won't fire you, no. I'm not gonna fire you now, I'm just not gonna hire you. That's very clever, too. There's too much, too much. You should know something. Despite his bitterness, the Greek, despite his poverty, despite his agony for his children, for tomorrow, despite all that he's pulling out, has a sense of humor. The Greeks have humor and he's thrown it in the corn with you, Mrs. Syregella, not with you personally, with your Government. You know the screenshot they drink two ladies coffee and you pour coffee and tell her the other "Repo you will get!". That's where we're here! And say two things for you to move on to the rest. Since this is really a Memorandum of Understanding, I am not discussing it, it is not a working bill, it is a Memorandum of Understanding, the interests of lenders are fully safeguarded, not the rights of workers. You also have a huge responsibility here for SYRIZA, and I will also say that it is too late for tears. Too late for tears now. You have prevented the four-and-a-half years that you have ruled the country to go too far, to make decisions that cost you too much, and at the moment you are actually 'Kramer vs Kramer'. You're self-confusing and dissolving, that's what you're doing. You cannot defend what you were saying before and had as a account. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] And now we're going to another global phenomenon. Tell me a country in the world that is based, that the government does not work, that the ministries, Mrs. Syrevella, do not work, and that it has thirty-four independent authorities. Where's that? So what are we doing here? What are you doing? The independent authorities on the one hand imply the inability of the respective government, because they had been there, you did not all of them now, so the governments are incapable of commanding, controlling, guaranteeing rights, anything else. We put independent authorities, which a bankrupt state is paying for, which does not have to pay the workers, but which pays 600 million euros a year only for the AIA, which we have been planted by the Germans and the troika of all five of the recognizable independent authorities, not thirty-four, yet one of them. The RCF didn't do you! Why? If there's a body! You don't like the way it works? Call them and tell them "I want you to work like this, these will be the fines, so you will work, here you will be elastic, these will be the checks". Do it! Let's break this down, do something else, another independent authority! More than EUR 1 billion per year costs payroll only for the staff employed by the thirty-four independent authorities in Greece! There's no precedent for this! What do we want with the state? Turn it off, guys, the store, close it! Independent authorities for everything! That's down! We are talking about the Greek people's money, which you could put on the market, throw it at work, throw it at people, in society! No, no, no! I'm not going to the auctions. We read, of course, that they took nine months of extension. All right, it's like the death row you tell him "your execution has been postponed for two months". What can we do? But you'll die, there's no way. I'll take it from you, man, there's no way I can't take it from you! I've reached out to the lenders, lived a little longer, nine months. That's how you have the Greeks! And you know, the Greeks, the ordinary citizens who are listening to us now, have no NGOs to help them, to support them, to appeal to them, namely the NGOs. We tell you from now on that a new "fruit" that you will find in front of you is the auctioning of the hotels. They're going to the hammer forty hotels! We are talking about forty hotels in scattered units in Greece, Crete, Lero, Ptolemais, Macedonia, Peloponnese, and they are about to be taken by NGOs! You're not listening to us! You'll find it in front of you and that! I will close the issue with the houses: we have told you for months, since the first day we entered here, to copy the American model, 'Bad Bank' for'red' loans! And as I said, the Greek who is in danger of losing his first residence cannot have lost his sleep because they are not all batters, not all of them who are mocking. There's cosmacians out there who can owe up to eighty grand and have lost his sleep that he'll lose his house! On the other hand, they cannot owe the parties, which legislate, 340 million each, so many millions of them. I see here, 245 million euros for 2018, which changed, says, APM. New Democracy owes 340 million. It's not our fault, it says, New Democracy. We pay our instalments, but interest is high. Oh, no, no, For the world, isn't interest high? One who got a loan of 100,000 euros and the loan sharks, the banks, they've had their blood and made the $100,000 loan, isn't that where the interest is 'bad'? Is that all you are "bad"? It's a disgrace! It's a disgrace! The German 'SPD' that owes 48m euros is third in the list, but Germany has multiple GDP than Greece! SYRIZA is in the fourteenth place with debt of 3.9m euros! Well, in front of about 340 million, you're still in kindergarten! We're not talking about it! On the other hand, we prefer our President to work and be financially independent. And if it doesn't bother you. On the other hand, the central government debt figures. "What does Greece owe?" he asks the other outsider. Just say some time, as it is: 298,5 billion between 2009 and 2020 and we went to 374 billion. That's how much Greece owes! That's all together, 374 billion is 225.6 billion of the country's GDP! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So do you realise, Madam Member, that you, the modernists and us, the people of the caves, have charged the country with EUR 374 billion? In March 2021, the central government debt had gone to 380 billion! And the other great tragic thing is that, in a year and a half, we have been able to achieve and have been charged - listen, Mr President! -40 billion, 24 billion for 2020 and 16 billion for the first half of 2021! We're talking about 40 billion! And that money we gave to benefits, and we didn't invest or support the job. What we have done is to support unemployment. Lost money! And we don't say it's borrowed. Theodoros Skakakis said so in the Minutes, which I will testify later. So he said: "The resources of an economy are limited. From one point to the next, we are borrowing to get through, but these loans at some point we will be summoned to return them." That's what the Undersecretary of Finance said, Mr. Skulakakis! Our children and our children's children's children! And I shall close, Mr President - I shall not speak again - with this tragic picture, with this really embarrassing picture, which almost all Parliament reflects here, except for the Greek Solution. It's this picture I'm showing you! That's why we're saying that these people don't get caught or any deals you have to make with them. This country is playing in 'Euro' under the name of 'Macedonia'. And just say it? They're selling us crazy! I'll put it in the Minutes colored! See if she pleases you! These are your results! Your 'children' are those, your actions, the results of your actions! Tell us how you feel about this picture in the New Democracy? Tell us! Come on, that's what SYRIZA wanted! Tell us how you feel! They're pulling us through! We're being swept through by the fake machetes! These are pictures from “Euro”, from an organization that is seen daily by millions of citizens throughout the world! And if you dare, let's do the exam! If you dare, bring here the memorial protocols, the cooperation protocols with Skopje, to see 'how many sacks the bag gets'! But your mind and your meaning are to put them in the European Union and you are shaking Bulgaria does not make any veto! That's where you got there, that's really! It is really embarrassing - and I will close with it - to see this picture because it is embarrassing for Greece. They are shameful here, these Slav Albanians calling themselves "Macedonians"! And that is the result of the governments of SYRIZA and the New Democracy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u216	The next speaker is Mr Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement. Then Mr. Kavadas, Mr. Santorinios, Mr. Cappatos and Mr. Stoltides will speak. Here, Mr. Ahmet, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the world of work has suffered decisive blows during the crisis which has troubled Greek society over the last decade. Flexibility in the labour market, cheap cuts, weakening collective negotiations, retreating trade liberties, depreciating the trade union movement as the womb of all the problems in Greek society did not, unfortunately, bring about the much-conscious relocation of the Greek economy. On the other hand, Greece has the worst job performance in terms of the quality of employment in the European Union and at the same time the highest rate of job degradation in relation to 2010. The Quality Index of Employment of the Confederation of European Trade Unions, which incorporates key indicators - the objectives of the UN's sustainable development, shows our country, Greece, 2019 in the last place, ladies and gentlemen, among the Member States of the European Union. In addition, it was the only Member State, namely Greece, which had so great a fall in the quality of employment index. In particular, between 2010 and 2019, the index decreased by 11.45%, while in Portugal by 3.21% and in Cyprus by 1.96%. In all the other Member States, there has been improvement. One of the main reasons why the quality of employment is so low in Greece has to do with weekly working time. The duration of a typical weekly work is the highest in the European Union and the third highest in terms of Turkey, Montenegro, Serbia and Northern Macedonia. At the same time, however, Greece also has the second highest proportion of employees working with extended hours, that is, forty-nine hours or more and, of course, the highest percentage of employees in the European Union working Saturday and Sunday. Extended use of overworking brings Greece's labour market closer to the Balkan model, highlighting the growth gap between eurozone and Greece Greece is the only Member State - Member State of the European Union, in which the average wage was, unfortunately, reduced compared to 2010, and during the pandemic there was further deterioration. The divergence of the average wage from this Eurozone average and not from the Balkan countries is even more important if it is taken into account that in Eastern Europe and the Balkans there is strong convergence, which makes Greece a special case of regression of social prosperity. All the above elements I mentioned to you, ladies and gentlemen, are of the Institute of GFCM. They should normally, Minister, have been dissuasive to the government in order to open up the cap of absolute industrial arbitrage in the regulation of labour relations. But in vain! At a time of great change that knowledge, quality, human resources are playing a dominant role, the New Democracy promotes a work, outdated by us, model of yesterday. It turns us into the era of individual contracts. It dismantles labour relations, levels labour rights, undermines collective agreements, strengthens the unconscious employers and dismantles the state's control mechanisms. Today, social dialogue is as necessary. The government chooses the path of authoritarianism, restricts trade union freedoms and the right to strike. We as a Movement of Change we are dynamically opposed to this policy. We firmly believe that growth must be for everyone. Ladies and gentlemen, we are proposing a new 'green' social contract in the digital age, with new regulations on labour relations, collective agreements, with workers being safe, with decent wages and working conditions. We as a progressive party have nothing to do with populism and demagogy. When it is a good thing, we are voting on it and we have shown that within these last two years. Obviously, we will be voting for the positive regulations which are European directives and which we have been claiming for too long since the government had delayed them for ratification. These, however, cannot hide the government's pursuit to leave the workers at the mercy of every suffocating employer. We propose the way for new change, through the contributors of maintenance and populism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u218	The next speaker is Mr Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy. Before my colleague begins, I would like to ask the House to observe the seven-minute period. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the public debate on the content of the institutional intervention attempted by the Government by reforming the framework for the protection of workers' rights does indeed highlight the new dividing lines. These new dividing lines, however, do not have the character that the Opposition wants to give them. Instead, they manifest themselves and are dictated by modern reality. It is between the new and the old, between those who have no fearful contribution to reality and the necessity of changes and reforms and those who stick to the past. The objections of the Objection in terms of the bill are pre-formative and correct, the government raises a question of roll-call voting for the masks to fall, because then some should explain to workers why they are voting against provisions aimed at protecting them, but also at highlighting rights arising from modern reality. What arguments can he be against? Firstly, measures to combat violence and harassment at work by ratifying the very important Convention of 190 of the International Labour Organisation? Secondly, who can vote against the digital working card aimed at combating 'black' work, undeclared overtime and the loss of public revenue? Thirdly, who can vote against the introduction of a four-month parental leave by both parents and paternity leave - even for the first time with remuneration - for fourteen days compared with ten existing directives? Fourthly, who can vote against the right to disconnect after the end of the working hours for the cases of teleworking, so that the eighth is not violated? Fifthly, who can vote against the introduction of a five-day career leave for the employee to provide care for a relative who is having health problems, a seven-day licence with remuneration in the private sector, a maximum of two days a year and a number of other new categories of licences? Sixth, who can vote against the creation of a protection framework for workers on digital platforms? Moreover, self-employed workers on digital platforms will have rights to welfare, hygiene and safety, respectively those of employees on conditional employment contracts. Seventhly, who can vote against the equalisation of the workers' allowances which have so far been calculated in a few quarters of those of employees equivalent to 12 months' wages? Eighth and eighth, who can vote against strengthening the authorised overtime in the 50 hours that is the European average, not to force the worker to work a hundred and fifty hours more per year, but to protect the one who actually works these hours and to ensure that they are paid. And, of course, overtime will not be paid by the day off, as the "fake news" that is scattered by the Anti-Civilisation, but will be paid normally. Indeed, overtime over a hundred and fifty hours will now be paid with 120% more than 80% today. Ninth, who can vote against the increase in cases where a worker’s dismissal is invalid and illegal and who is forced to return to work? Amongst these are cases of workers who did not come under the pressure of the employer to adjust working time or teleworkers who exercised the right of disconnection. Tenth, who can vote against upgrading the Labour Inspectorate to an Independent Authority, so that there will never be a shadow again for government favours to employers? Ladies and gentlemen, I mentioned only ten points contained in the bill, which undoubtedly have a positive sign for workers. I could mention a lot more. I hope and hope that some of the opposition parties remain in the roll-call vote and do not leave, to see whether these arrangements will be voted on, because it is certainly very difficult to have any arguments to vote against. I also wonder whether SYRIZA will vote against the transposition into national law of European Directive 1158/2019 which they themselves co-signed when it was government. What does this directive provide for? It provides for the adjustment of working time through individual contracts and the employee's initiative, with a view to improving and harmonising working and family life. The organization of working time is achieved and agreed only at the initiative of the worker, but also at the consent of the worker. I do not need to recall, of course, that the working time arrangement was implemented during the SYRIZA - ANEL governance in enterprises such as OTE, Alpha Bank and many others. This also applies to the hotel sector, where the same sectoral collective labour agreement contains provision for adjusting working time. Let me point out here that those who come from island and general tourist areas know that needs come up vertically in the summer, not only in hotels and accommodations, but also in all tourism, catering and, of course, in the supply chain. The resolution of working time so that it responds to demand is absolutely essential for the economy to function and for society to live, be it employers or workers. Ladies and gentlemen, some people want to keep the country back and turn us back forty years, because since then there have been substantial changes in the institutional framework that protects workers' rights and regulates labour relations. In forty years, however, rapid changes and developments have taken place. Technology has brought great twists. Forty years ago there were no same needs, no teleworking, no digital platforms. It is the responsibility of the citizens to change the country, to release creative forces, to rid it of the burdens they have in the past and to oppress it. This bill is part of the mandate given to the Government of New Democracy in July 2019, a mandate that continues to remain strong and express the majority of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Nektarios Santorinios has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr President. If I'm out of time, I'll take it off!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u222	The bill hasn't been passed yet. There's time to retire. That's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u223	Let's keep it. I was just listening to Mr Loverdos who said that he is not Mr Hatzidakis - I am not saying for you, Admiral, for the Minister I am saying -'shoulders' by Mr Mitsotakis. I totally agree with Mr. Loverdo. He's not "shoulder," he's the super dealer. All the deals that no one could do, Mr. Hatzidakis took over. So, ladies and gentlemen, perhaps the most black pages are written today in the history of Labour Law. Arrangements that the troika has not dared, which the institutions have not dared to demand, come today with the deals of Mr Hatzidakis and Mr Mitsotakis because, in fact, he does the deals. Legislate on the request of BSE and on what GFCF itself says, which is also an employer. In May 1886 in Chicago, workers shouted: "One hour's work, eight hours' free time, eight hours' rest". They did so today with a law you want to abolish it. Are you proud of this? What are you doing today? You establish a sea of unpaid and cheap overworking, you remove eight hours with the introduction of 10 hours of work, while at the same time reducing the wages of workers - and I will show you how - you increase the limit of legal overtime set in three hours, essentially leading to twelve hours of work and increasing cheap overtime because the ceiling is increased in the hundred and fifty hours of overtime, 40% increase. And where's all this going to lead? Will it lead to new well-paid jobs? Oh, no. It will lead to a reduction in jobs. Once the employer has had this ocean of unpaid and cheap hours of overworking, why hire others? And at the same time you say 'but don't worry, the worker must agree'. Are you serious? Honestly, can those who say that argument feel serious? So the worker has the same place in a negotiation on his own as the employer? And at the same time when we have an unemployment rate that reaches 16%, 17%, 20%, you think the employer won't tell him "know how many people wait outside the door if you don't sign? " However, because the previous Member from Lefkada also spoke about seasonal workers, I would ask: Really, seasonal workers who will have contracts under the age of six, when will they take their day off exactly? They'll take it sometime. What does that mean? It means that they will work ten days unpaid, which they are supposed to get off the ground, but they will not get them, and at the same time they will lose this great advantage that employees have in the tourism sector. You know, these workers work six months and work overtime to get more money to be able to keep them all year round. Do you know how much a worker will lose who gets a thousand euros mixed? EUR 175 per month in overtime. In three months, he'll lose 525 euros. Congratulations! You did it! I therefore expect all Members of the tourist regions to commit themselves, to tell us what they say about all of this. And what do you think? What are your arguments? That you're defending your eight. But honestly, aren't you ashamed to say that? The eighth hour has been introduced with struggles and blood and you come to say that you are confirming the eighth hour? Aren't you ashamed to say that? You tell us that more time will be given to set up family life. Just the opposite is going to happen. You destroy family life by elasticizing working hours and doing so exactly as the employer wants. Not to hear this funny and outrageous argument that he'll have the right, he says, to go to work with the doctor. So what are we telling him? Work until you die and if it's good for the boss to let you go to the doctor? Another argument, a digital working card. You hide that it will operate pilots from 2022. Is it panacea? You know, the digital working card now applies to banks. But our government imposed a fine of 1.5 million for overtime. Do you know what's going on today? While we were government, they were texting the bank employees at 15:15 to leave. Nowadays, they're holding them until 6 p.m. and overtime's not counting anywhere. Did you see any bankers taking overtime? Go ask them. And what are you still telling us? But don't you see all this dominating, is it on the market today? I know that illegality or smuggling or restricting it, you don't legalize it. You legalize her. And from there, you tell us about working arrangements and deny what we simply say to you that, with individual contracts, industry and collective agreements are actually being abolished and the individual contract becomes dominant. This is how the worker is protected from collective agreements. At the same time, I will give you another example to understand that wages will also be reduced in this way. A working maid in a tourist business with two years of service, married, will take 1,008 euros. If it is not under the cover of the branch contract and it is with an individual contract it will get 715 euros, 30% reduction. This will be done automatically in a moment. Congratulations, we'll see you again! Not to mention the APRC. You're actually downgrading it by upgrading it. Not all that actually leads to the abolition of the right to strike. I will close, Mr President, I will not take the day off because the law has not yet been passed! But I will give you an example, and I will ask you something. Many of you know the concept of democracy and you say that it is democratic to vote electronically. Really, isn't democracy the decision of the municipal assembly? Isn't that how it started? What was the municipality? It was the citizens' assembly. But a convention. You're abolishing the convention. No one's going to consult. He'll just vote. He'll vote with the boss on top of him. That's what's gonna happen. And you're telling me this is a democracy? You mean democracy? Ladies and gentlemen, each of you has become personally responsible for the greatest reactive change in employment relations and the deterioration of the lives of workers in the last 100 years. You're writing with your vote the darkest stories in Labour Law, but I'm very afraid of the country's legal culture as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u224	Mr Panagis Capatos has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my introduction with a finding confusing the content, philosophy and intention of the draft law that we are discussing. Never again has a bill title responded as loyally to reality as today's work protection, environmental protection, conditions, rights and the safety of our professional life. In the time available, I will try to highlight those aspects in the provisions of the bill which I think should be pointed out. The first point I would like to make concerns the working card. "A large part of the reported work and illegal overtime overruns can be effectively combated by electronic working card, provided there is interoperability in the systems of control mechanisms and business." These words do not belong to me or to a majority member or the government. It is an official GFCM position, which is finally taking place in this draft law. In particular, the digital working card operates as a strong guarantee at multiple levels. From observance of working hours and overtime until the right to disconnect and adjust the working time of the worker is guaranteed by the digital card. At the same time it significantly reduces the divergence from principles and rules that protect work and the worker. In other words, it is moving to the core of the concern that GFCM has expressed regarding undeclared work and illegal overtime overruns. On the other hand, as a modern mechanism to be financed by the Recovery Fund and to be promoted in cooperation with the Ministry of Digital Governance, the digital working card also responds to the second part of the position that the highest trade union body has put in place, namely the interoperability of the control systems that will guarantee the effectiveness of this measure. With one version of the working card already in use in the microscale of some businesses, the digital working card comes to be applied at every appearance of work. Depending on the nature of the job, the card can be used physically or digitally through mobile devices. The Labour Inspectorate is the second point I wish to highlight. In particular, therefore, the Labour Inspectorate is replaced by the Independent Labour Inspectorate. We are stepping up, in other words, the EIA by transforming it into an administrative authority, independent, institutionally independent and certainly more effective. See the case of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. This is obviously an effective control model, which at the same time excludes any political interference in the control of the labour market. That is the logic behind the independent administrative authorities. We refer to entities incorporated in the legal person of the state, with an increased intra-administrative autonomy. This institutional independence and their displacement from direct political control of the leadership concerned guarantee their uninterrupted functioning for the benefit of Greek citizens. The effectiveness of public administration in the area of control of compliance with labour and insurance legislation is thus ensured in full. At the same time as the development of the Labour Inspectorate into an independent authority, the presumption of credibility and objectivity remains obviously indisputable. I come to the third point, the question of new licences. What are we doing with this draft law? We are introducing a series of new permits which contribute to equal treatment for men and women, while reconciled with personal, family and working life. In practice, we provide for a four-month parental leave for both parents with payment from the OAED for both months for the first time. We import paternity leave, also for the first time. We provide the right to flexible arrangements, such as teleworking for children up to twelve years old. We extend the leave nine weeks after birth and the adoption of a child. We are also extending the special leave for the protection of the motherhood of six months with a grant from the OAED and the adoption of a child, as well as the child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's child's mother's mother's mother's child's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother's mother-in-law. We provide a licence for assisted breeding seven days with remuneration in the private sector and, finally, a licence of force majeure two days a year. And a reference to the issue of the eighth that was literally devastated in the public debate by Opposition. Article 55 of the draft law: All sectors of employment and all sectors of economic activity are defined in forty hours a week. In practice, five working days for eight hours are equal to forty hours a week, four working days for ten hours are equal to forty hours a week and one day to the worker use it as he wishes. There is therefore no circumvention of eight hours beyond that of the Opposition and of the lies dispersing 24/7. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just give me one more minute, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have tried to list only a few of the many important contributions we are introducing in this draft law. I have listed them not only to show the importance, the necessity and the modern nature of this legislation, but also to ask myself: can one well claim that it is not about charity interventions? Can one deny, for example, that labour legislation is better protected by controlling the commission of an independent authority? Can anyone seriously claim that extending a number of licences does not favour the coexistence of family and working life? In any case, you, ladies and gentlemen, defended the equalisation of workers' allowances with those of employees. Today when your constant request becomes state law, why don't you vote for it? Why do you disagree even with what was, until recently, a flag of your claims? I leave the answer to the citizens who are currently watching us, to the workers and workers who are struggling to keep up with their work and family, to the good employers who do not want to stack with those professionals who have divorced with common sense and respect for labour law, to employees who are trying to balance their daily lives between work, personal life and free time. They say, ladies and gentlemen, that time is the best judge. Time also judged the 20% cut in widow’s pensions with the signature of SYRIZA. But he also judged their reinstatement to 70%, with the seal and political will of the New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis. By voting on the draft law, we therefore allow the reality of its application to disprove every lie we have heard unreservedly all these days. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u226	The next speaker is Leonidas Stoltides from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr. Chartomas, Mr. Apostolos, Mrs. Alexopoulou and Mr. Arsenis will follow, with which the second cycle of speakers will be completed. Here, Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. All right, you are a government that implements what the capital strategy plans, but here it appeared the vulnerability of some parliamentarians who have forgotten that they are taking by their own decision ten times as much as twenty-fold wages from mining workers, mines, heavy industry, supermarkets, hotels, those where we owe everything, that is, and with a dissatisfaction you are doing against their rights, in their struggles. And this must be answered, taken into account in the response of the working class. Breathing the struggle, so that their workers and children can live as they deserve in the 21st century, with stable hours and fewer hours of work, with full rights and not as slaves to the feet of capital whenever and as their profits require. This was the strike last Thursday, the populace that gathered in the center of Athens, Thessaloniki, Patras, the protests in dozens of cities, the mobilizations, which were the largest in recent years. It was breathtaking for the continuity and escalation of the struggle and for all the anti-government framework that all governments made with the European Union's directives, widening the door to today's dreadful piece of legislation. An escalation of the match with next station on Wednesday 16 June with the new strike mobilisation decided by the trade unions. They were breathtaking for those after a while or for the first time they took the step and were in the same chain as their colleagues in the protest. You, with the blow of trade union activity, the electronic control of assemblies and antiquities by state and employers, with the strike mechanisms, the hunting of strikers, which all of you trade union leaders, and the New Democracy and PASOK and SYRIZA have long since been working on the workplace, that is, before today's bill, this breath you want to cut, the class pole in the trade union movement, in which the communists first lead the working people to conquer, which has delayed the attack of all your governments on labour rights, and now weep that you have stayed in the best practices. You want to take out the trade union pole, which knows how to organize workers' struggle, how to effectively abolish your misdeeds of legislation, such as the abolition of demonstrations, what did act "law is the right of the worker" in banning the strike of seafarers, the polo that, in conditions of pandemic and extensive teleworking, managed to massage the collective processes of unions, which brought the success of huge strike mobilisation. Fresh air and hope, therefore, for the workers from the strikes, but hard for the government, the employer, the staff of the system, the strike mechanisms and your workers. You are bracing for those who, a few hours before the start of the strike, were cultivating defeat, who were anticipating its failure, as they did first-time SYRIZA executives, showing as the only solution once again the government rotation. Massive people's mobilisation is already a success, not only because it disproved all those who said that the strike is a outdated form that is not moving, but because above all it expresses the massive rejection of the abortion from old, but especially from the young workers, because it reveals that the propagandaist effort of those who still insist on hammering the positive aberrations, as the GSEE's leading group does, which, after having crossed the abortion with the government and employers, is now talking about positive regulations. And a long time ago, the 'grab' under the feet of trade unions who were preparing for a pan-Hellenic strike did not declare a four-hour job stop. You know, she'll ask you for the MATs whenever it's necessary. For all these reasons, the success of the strike becomes even more important, since it was organized against pressure, blackmail and slander, against authoritarianism, repression and open undermining. That's why your government "victims it and doesn't cool it" which, since it has not succeeded in blocking the strike river, invokes evidence to devaluate its size. Only to remind the Minister that he invokes evidence that exposes him. Because the Minister has advertised himself as the highest percentage of participation in the strike in the same place that you presented as a flagship for the implementation of the arrangement. So much acceptance of your bill! For the first time, BSE officials are bothering to go around the urban media and announce that nothing has happened with the strike. They're looking to find participation rates that suit them. They know, of course, that with all the legal arsenal in their hands, they have no obstacle other than unions organising the struggle in every workplace and industry, which are not subject to the line of saving the company's profits, but claiming the eruption of anti-territorial measures and provisions. They are aware that the success of the strike is a reserve for more aggressive struggles in the next period. They know that as long as workers take courage, as long as they resist the work of the middle ages. Every breath of hope for the working class and a bracelet for its potential, for the fossils of society, which invite it to work in terms of the last century, while there are all possibilities for truly modern terms of work with decent wages, with less working and more free time, with stable working hours, ensuring uninterrupted trade union activity. The next days and hours of each minute are crucial to the organization of the struggle. If the strike of June 10 caused such a reaction to all of you in the bourgeois order, the government and its parties, their people in the labour movement, the coming strike battle can really "get you." This fresh air can pick up and lift up the boot of modern slavery that the dumps of your rotten exploitation system where it came from, and it will end up again with the anti-virtual abortion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u228	The next speaker is Mr Philippos Loading from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating one of the most comprehensive bills in recent years. This is a total of about thirty articles through which we are actually modernising the institution of work, confronting chronic pathogens and, of course, abolishing anachronistic regulations. And now, our country's labour legislation is adapting to European standards. In recent weeks the misinformation, especially from the standpoint of counterpopulation, has been intense. It makes sense, of course, if someone thinks that there was another reason for my fellow Members to show their noble but, I would say, racing feelings through demonstrations against the government. We have been listening for so many days to the fact that the New Democracy has been abolishing the eighth hour. Who's pulling it out of the eighth? Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, for someone to be abolished eight hours in a country of the European Union? Is it possible to abolish a regulated right? Of course not. So we're not abolishing it. On the contrary, I would say, we shield it. And how do we do that? With the introduction of the digital working card and the independent Labour Inspectorate. And, of course, I personally think that there should be an extension of this card to all businesses, small and medium-sized ones and small ones. So we control the employer, but also the observance of the eighth and, of course, undeclared overtime and black work. But let me stand on another point of your criticism. You're saying with the new bill we'll get paid off the day off. Ladies and gentlemen, let us be a little serious and let us not rush to make various slogans and cheetah. The bill talks about the choice of working time in place of overtime. So what are we importing? The possibility - and I stress this - is not the obligation if a worker wishes to work from Monday to Thursday a few hours more and on Friday to stay home with his family. Forty hours, then, they remain forty and are not increased, just the worker will be able to choose how to work for those 40 hours. In addition, it has been institutionalized for thirty years. And on your own days there was such an arrangement. So why, then, did you not step on this anti-grassroot - as you say - measure that you are genuine fighters of democracy and the left? After all, in 2019 you - probably too - signed the European Union Directive 1158. Do you remember it or rather diligently you've left it behind? This directive introduces the logic of individual workers' contracts for the purpose of reconciliation of professional and personal life. The same thing as the working time arrangement. You then brought it, voted on it, and you signed it. Then, of course, it was a good arrangement. Well, obviously, then. But today we are introducing it into the National Representation and Legislation, it is - you say - an anti-freeze provision. Any hypocrisy, ladies and gentlemen! So with the bill that we are bringing today to plenary the unregulated overtime will be paid with 120% increase as compared with 80% that was to date. And that's another answer to your disinformation and the make news. You're accusing us of blocking the right to strike. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike is guaranteed by our Constitution. What we are doing with this bill is preventing the abuse of the right to strike. And I'm explaining. We provide for the civil responsibility of trade unions who carry out illegal acts during the strike. So we put an end to immunity. Ladies and gentlemen, the right to strike is absolutely respected. But the same respect must also be for citizens not to be held hostage to the arbitrary nature of the various trade unions. Never so few people have ever been so inconvenienced. Unfortunately, a few days ago, we were in the same show. Basically, the basis of people who move around the working class does not go down, as you know very well, to protest on the streets as well. You have also taken this into account. So it is enough with the arbitrariness of the trade union leaders that you yourself have been rearing them, and you have been supporting them for so many years. We support society when we regulate the provision of 1/3 of work to public utility enterprises during the strike. Ladies and gentlemen, it is not on the left to defend labour. You're not the only ones who've worked. You're not the only ones who've been wronged. You're not the only ones who've worked out. Work is an inalienable right of all. And its protection is an obligation on everyone. And with this bill, we defend these concepts and the essence of all of them. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u230	Thank you, Mr. Loading. The next speaker is Mr Evangelos Apostleou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today in the Chamber the ghost of the infamous Laskaris Surgery Act of Law 330/1976 is deceiving. Memorials haunt the whole country and especially Evia, my homeland, when the state-owned "SHELMAN" one morning in 1978 avenges, under this law, eight hundred strikers without compensation, invokeing pre-formative formal omissions in the declaration of the strike. The scenes, with the pressure of judges in charge of dismissal documents, are still alive. This reality, ladies and gentlemen, of authoritarian regulation, the smashing of the right to the strike brings Mr Mitsotakis with this bill by hand in Hatzidakis. The Greek people's answer, ladies and gentlemen of the government, gave it to you by their massive earlier mobilization and will give it to you every day. The right to strike is extinguished because in the already grim reality that 90% of the strikes are declared illegal and abusive, it adds hard conditions, not only to ban another secondary, tertiary union if it is declared illegal and abusive, but also to add the obligation of the union, which declares the strike to protect - says - the strikers from the exercise of psychological violence. In this case the strike is interrupted and an obligation to compensate the association is introduced. It is not left to employers despite its modeling by submissively submissive, which is easy if a dynamic and mass strike can be interrupted. Your aim is to destroy the right to strike and to intimidate the workers. All right, then, the strike mechanism of psychological violence with Vula Mitsotakis! Let us not talk about strikes in the local government agencies, in the utilities sectors, since every strike is systematically being dismantled and now it is actually being abolished. The protection of trade unionists is decreasing. The void dismissal of every worker, and resulting in the re-introduction and payment of late payment, gives the employer the right to be re-introduced up to the court of appeal to request that he not be re-introduced by paying a little more damages. Think, ladies and gentlemen, a worker who, in the first instance, has been entitled, that is to say, his dismissal has been declared void, that re-entry has been ordered and that late payment has been made. In such a case, the employer in the proceedings makes his accounts, since he has the right to put his claim at the court for the first time, that is to say to dismiss him by paying more than compensation. You're telling us that the worker has the same right. Let us not comment on the strong position of workers in this twin. This unprecedented arrangement puts back on being forced to leave the annoying for the employer. And we all know who they are. In fact, the fact that the worker cannot accumulate these two possibilities nor as an adjunct to his treatment, as expressly provided for, because he is rejected as inadmissible as a whole, gives the employer a legal whip. Of course, how can we comment on the enthusiasm of Mr Hatzidakis for the eight-hour abolition with the false title'suspension of working time', where the worker will be called upon to work two hours more a day when the employer needs, and indeed on an individual contract - I stress it on an individual contract - rather than on a collective basis. With this bill, collective agreements are being sent to fire abroad and this is not by chance, but because you are aiming at the dismantling and shrinking of the trade unions. The worker in this case will not be paid for the extra two hours, but he will pay the days off, as the inventor has told us, to collect olives. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, will the olives be collected after the arrangement of time, namely March, April, May? Farmers know. When it's easy for the employer. Alas! Minister, in arrogant manner you have promoted your bill, which aims directly at the dismantling and dismantling of the trade unions. You did this because it was a privileged field for you to achieve, as you seek, the depopulation of workers' rights. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. The answer we will give you on the road every day, in the workplace, in the House, as the workers' movement gave it to the shameful Law 330/1976 Minister for Labour, Laskaris, who, as he said, decided not to allow the battle of classes. It seems, ladies and gentlemen, that you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, are also empathetic to these points of view today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u232	Next speaker Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou from Greek Solution. Here comes Mr. Arsenis. Until the Step is ready and Mrs Alexopoulou will also be here for her speech, I would like to inform the House that, based on the calculation of the speaking time, until the debate on the draft law is over, the aim is at least to finish the seventh cycle. We'll see the course and it'll depend. However, the seventh cycle is also targeted. I mean, count the time of about 1 00 to 1.30 seconds that today's meeting will be over. If you want the last speaker's name, it's Mr. Marcus. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am very afraid that the government-advertised labour bill is a bill that creates more problems than it is supposed to solve. Because the government may claim to combine the competitiveness of the economy with the protection of workers, but a deeper analysis reveals completely other things and situations. First of all, by reading it, we see that it is actually a multi-brand plan, since it consists of many different parts, each of which could be a separate draft law. Why, is that so? Why did you, ladies and gentlemen, bring down a mammoth bill, which is more confusing with the already confusing work situation? But to blur water and stay the workers once in the margin of developments. We, the Greek Solution - Kyriakos Velopoulos, emphasised at the first moment something that the bill completely ignores, that the aim of every reform must be to repatriate the six hundred thousands of young Greeks and Greeks who left Greece during the respondent crises and to address what we called the 'national scourge of unemployment'. The Greek Solution, at the same time, tabled concrete proposals for subsidising labour and changing the production model, with a view to creating national wealth, because only in this way can a solution be given to the continuing collapse. What did we see in the bill? Nothing. And if we've seen something, that's the whole opposite. Indeed, you are changing radically, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in the old job of 1982, only by overthrowing labour and social conquests of decades and always at the expense of Greek workers. Here comes a central question: Who and how will support public funds, given the decline in wages and wages, which is legally coming? Are we going to overturn and to insurance, always at the expense of the Greek people, with this draft law being simply a procurer of developments? I will try to focus on the main points of the draft law, what overthrows the lives of millions of Greeks, illuminate those points that are much wider and which the government is trying to hide from public opinion for good reasons. Articles 58 to 63 define overtime the individual arrangement of working time and Sundays. I will focus a little on Sunday's holiday, saying that with its substantial abolition a century-old tradition has been destroyed, which began at that time by Turkish-occupied Greece. But is the bill coming now to abolish our Christian tradition for centuries? Two words for eight. What the government is doing now existed in a less aggressive form and in laws for the settlement of working time that were passed after 1990, when the New Democracy, when the PASOK and the last law of the SYRIZA Government of 2017, which involved organising the working time of hospital doctors. They are laws that effectively abolished the eighth hour and established unpaid overtime, provided that the respective association agreed. Now even that is abolished. Every worker is abandoned on his own and practically, he has to withstand for many days or weeks and months in nine and ten hours, without being paid as overtime. What in return does the working bill offer him? Should overtime be reduced later, after it will be exhausted? Is this a conquest for the workers? This is what the government calls'modernisation'. Extended working hours, forced permits, uncontrolled redundancies, working hours, individual contracts: This is the quintussy of the draft law, where under Article 66 on allegedly protection against redundancies you use organic language and reverse the reality: Protection, as well as the worker, but under the article, the employer is relieved of the obligation to pay late payments. It prevents the reintegration of the worker, while privileges, such as additional compensation, are lost for workers and taken exclusively into the hands of the employer. Article 67 introduces teleworking as a spiral of the pandemic crisis. However, there are significant shortcomings and weaknesses, because first of all, the provision of this type of work should be the result of an employer's agreement, which creates new areas of conflict, given the ambiguity of the precise working conditions, who will bear the cost of the home workplace and of telecommunications, which is created, but also by the lack of provision for health and safety issues. Is teleworking inappropriate as it is forbidden, especially for small and micro-enterprises? By combining it with Article 74 on a digital working card, one has the impression that teleworking could once be used in order to go to a much more comprehensive digital transformation of the economy, but without taking account of the human factor. In short, the draft law makes no difference to those who have real needs, since there is no serious provision for sensitive social groups. Where is the concern for MEDIs, our people with disabilities? Where is the interest in young people and the long-term unemployed, but also those who have been hit by lasting crises over ten years? In closing, let's look at the geopolitical dimension, let's see the future. I wonder if the bill acts as a pretext for an imminent legalisation of special economic zones in Greece, where illegal immigrants will be used as cheap labour hands. What will happen then to Greeks and especially young people?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u234	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u235	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Are we going to go for even greater demographic contraction of Hellenism, to replace Greeks from foreigners from third world countries, which will be the joy of the great monopolies due to their very low labour costs? If so, then this bill brings about a eruption of the ingenuity of the Greek nation, as well as a conversion of our country into hell for the workers. It makes Greece bounds of the world order, as a colony of debts and as a storeroom of living-dead souls. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u236	Mr Arsenis has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u237	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians and MPs, Madam Secretary, ultimately see that the government is more interested, or so it says, for unborn children than for born children, if we judge from recent events with the Yannina conference, while on the contrary it claims that in this bill it gives fathers time when their children are born, it makes all these children not to see their parents all their lives until adulthood. It's my fight for the parents, for the fathers. I would remind you that in the Review of the Constitution I proposed and proposed that the clause on the protection of paternity should be introduced, which the government and SYRIZA refused. They didn't even take a vote. I'm asking for parental leave too, yes. I call for full pay leave, full leave for the first year, both for the father and for the mother, for the first year of the new child and for the second part-time with full pay and the possibility of rotation. What are you doing? Enter the parent's zero time with the child. You say to us: 'Will you vote on the article on parental leave?'. And you brought a bill that won't allow the parent to see his child with these thirteen hours, whether he's a mother or a father. And you bring it, if possible, bring it on the day the pan-Hellenics begin. The kids right now that they're starting and writing and writing, and tomorrow with what dreams are they going to come out of society? With your thirteen hours, with your unpaid overtime? What message do you send them, fight for a place abroad, finish the university to leave? Is that what you propose to them with your bill, which you put in plenary today, the first day of the Greeks? For some, of course, you have already closed the door to higher education, such as for the people of all ages who study at night, who cut them 1%, now, not long ago, not accepting their struggle of life, working and studying at school, not accepting the unequal struggle they give to enter the university. With this bill, which breaks down labour rights and legalizes unpaid overworking, will you face depopulation, birthability, Brain drain, the migrants you are interested in? Do you want to create more emigrants? Because that creates this bill. What new and new will remain to work in Greece of the unpaid thirteenth hour, unpaid work, when in France, Spain, Finland and so many other countries work, eight hours, is now considered outdated and demanding and reduced employment, or they have been piloted and the other countries are preparing for 30 hours, and we are going slowly for the twenty-hour hours, which is our normal goal in the society we are living in today, with technological development, which if we do not reduce working time, we are going to huge unemployment rates. You are moving backwards in European and global experience. Not only do you increase your working hours, but you also dismantle labour rights. The Scientific Committee of Parliament has also said that the basis of your draft law, Mr Hatzidakis, is based on something totally vicious, that it is ever possible for the employer and the worker to have the same negotiating capacity, and so no collective agreements are needed, so let them do so individually. When did the addict and the employer have equal bargaining power? Let me tell you when. When there is strong labour legislation, exactly what you are breaking up today. And since Mr. Mitsotakis is now in NATO and is discussing the issues with Turkey, is it true to tell us how much your bill looks like what Mr Erdogan is doing? Mr. Erdogan doesn't want that? Bilateral agreements. What do all the small and medium-sized countries want? International law. What does Greece always ask for? The problems with Turkey are to be solved under international law. What does the worker want? Collective agreements. This is the International Labour Law. This is what you dismantle with this bill of law. You are increasing unemployment, as we will end for seasonals. Who will hire seasonals when he takes part work and makes him work eight hours, when full-time makes him work for thirteen hours. Really, a builder in Peristeri, Illion, Aegaleo, how long will he last for the scaffolding? Six hours, eight hours or thirteen hours? And shouldn't what you've brought here be anything to reduce the accidents at work, which we've seen ejected with the memorials and the dissolution of the labour inspectorate that you're dismantling it? Of course, to be clear, this is a bill you don't bring for moms or dads or students or farmers unless they have a shipowner's dad. You're bringing for the very few businessmen a couple of fifty. The small ones, which close with the returnees and the lockdown, which close with the bankruptcy, which close with the plan "HERAKLIS" - who are still waiting for SYRIZA to tell us whether he is committed to withdrawing it and how else he will protect the first residence - are now closing with this bill. You allow the exploitation by the very large vis-à-vis the workers and you are creating even more unequal competition from very large companies with small, self-employed and medium-sized enterprises.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u238	Let's finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u239	Of course I thank you for your tolerance, Mr President. However, we have no illusions when we speak and look at workers and workers in their eyes. We know that at the moment in the majority of the private sector does not apply the acquired and the eighth. We are at least fighting for the eight-hour return and a reduction in this, but at the moment in the tenth hour - let us say - work that actually exists in the private sector, you are bringing in a thirteen-hour overtime. A worker who can't stand working, after the bill, will see it today as the good old days. This is the incomprehensible that you manage with this bill. We invite you to withdraw the magnifying bill and give this place a chance to survive. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u240	Good. We continue with Mr Georgios Kotrias, Member of the New Democracy. Mrs Christidou, Mrs Evthymou, Mr Kegeroglou and Mr Hadjivassiliou, i.e. the first fives of the third circle of speakers, will be followed. Come on, Mr. Kotroya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, as the title of the bill says, it aims to protect the work. Having as the guide to the best European policies, the Ministry puts the current problems facing workers - injustices, unequal treatment, anachronistic regulations - and creates the conditions for strengthening both workers and the national economy itself. But is that so? And if so, why does Anti-Policy characterize it as an anti-Semitism and a isotopeic? Ladies and gentlemen, let me not as a worker but as a mere Greek MEP, who has the elementary intelligence and the ability to study a legislative text and interpret what he is dealing with, describe what I see. So what do I see? First, that eight hours are not affected. Secondly, there is provision for adjusting working time, if the worker so requests, and indeed for a regulation, which has been in force for thirty years - and today it has been applied to banks, to OTE, to 'PASTRATO' - and I see that this draft law and the relevant Community directive, which had been voted on in governance by SYRIZA. Thirdly, that parental leave is increasing and new parental leave is being introduced, new fathers and parental leave is being granted by the OAS for both parents. Fourthly, I see that teleworking is being introduced and systemically introduced, with the provision of decoupling, in order to protect workers from employers' arbitrariness. Fifthly, that workers are protected against harassment and violence, while the International Labour Organisation Convention on Health and Safety at Work is ratified and the Convention on 190 of the International Labour Organisation. Sixthly, I see the GFCM's request to implement the digital card is being acted upon, with which black work and undeclared overtime are being treated. Seventhly, that the Labour Inspectorate is being reconstituted and it is established as an independent administrative authority, according to the long-term demand for workers not to be under the control of the government. An eighth point is that the permitted and physically paid overtime is increasing, in line with those in force in the countries of the European Union. Ninth, that the protection of work is extended after the extension of the cases of the dismissal of workers, such as the case of the right to be granted and the protection of the father for six months after the birth of each child and that three times the compensation is now introduced and the redundancy allowance for the workers is increased, by equitable with the employees. Tenthly, I see that the social group is being protected from abusive strikes with the obligation that strikers in services of general interest in our economy provide guaranteed work of at least 1/3 of the usual provided job, while it provides for measures for the transparency of the trade union, the trade unions - seals - for the ban on the aid of trade unions from employers and parties, a ban on the reopening of the strike by a secondary or tertiary trade union, when it has already been found to be illegal and, finally, for the introduction of civil liability for trade unionists who think they can carry out violence and act illegally. Ladies and gentlemen, that is what I can see sincerely and only one of these I cannot understand why this intense reaction, because this ocular extremist traits from the Opposition. Or, I guess not, I can understand. Because what I mentioned at the end of my previous paragraph on the reform of trade union legislation and of the strikes seems to have affected the parties, because the trade unions, seeing that they have lost their immunity for many years and the possibility of putting pressure on them through the deregulation of economic life and the unbearable suffering of the social system, are creating a hard front in which, unfortunately, the opposition parties are also involved in the short term looking forward to the benefit of the trade unionists. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, what provisions will the Vice-Presidents vote against. The provisions on parental leave? The provisions on teleworking and the right to disconnect? The device for the digital working card? Will they insist that overtime is paid off? Will the SYRIZA colleagues, in particular, vote against the arrangement that they have implemented in the legislation on work settlement? Will they vote against ending the unions - seal and abuse of the right to strike? The truth is, the flag in the media all these days was the eight-hour abolition. Let me point out that the following is clearly stated in Article 55: In all sectors of economic activity, full employment shall be fixed at forty hours a week, which may be divided into five-day or six-day weekly working, in accordance with the applicable provisions, collective agreements or arbitration decisions. Where a five-day weekly work system is applied, the full contractual working hours shall be eight hours per day, and when a six-day weekly work system is in place, the full-time shall be six hours and forty-minutes per day. Under collective agreements and dietary decisions or individual contracts of employment, shorter working hours may be applied daily and weekly. Where do you see the eight-hour abolition? How clear does it have to be made to satisfy you? And yet, you've made it a flag before - well read it, but unfortunately, a crash flag, a flag now on a mission. So since there is no problem with eight-hour circumvention, let us see what other key issues are solved by the bill and how it is always dealt with in relation to improving the position of workers? The bill focuses on the balance between working and family life of modern, current workers. Its provisions make clear the importance, which gives the institution of the family and its essential effort to strengthen it with innovative and decisive solutions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. We see that, for the first time, the paternity leave of 14 days after the birth of the child and the coverage by the OAED of both parental leave for two months is being extended, while OAED's special maternity protection and child's adoption is being extended. And finally, there is a caregiver's permit for relatives with a serious health problem, as well as the right to flexible working arrangements for parents and caregivers. The same important issue that arises concerns the protection of workers in cases of violence and harassment. This issue comes up and is settled by this bill, and even by protected people, workers are added to the informal economy, public sector workers. To sum up, this bill comes to modernise the labour sector, to safeguard workers' rights, to protect society from abuse of trade union behaviour and to justify its title as a bill to protect labour. It's a bill of the 21st century and not the 20th century. It is the basis for better working conditions and rapid development of the country, it is the step our Government dares to take for tomorrow. Thank you and thank the President for his tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u242	Mrs. Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u243	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good luck today and from now on to the children who give their struggle to the pan-Hellenic exams, through my heart. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today in plenary a draft law, which is toxic. It is not, of course, the first attack the New Democracy Government is making on the labour market. This attack started on the first day of almost its election in August 2019, with the good morning we say, and it returns every so demolition of what was left, despite the suffocating pressure and monitoring of the institutions, but also what SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras have been able to bring back from that crisis. SYRIZA had a memo, didn't he? You neither have a budgetary stability pact. Is it random? Do you bring this bill because you're obliged for any reason, or are you bringing it from a choice? The answer is that you are clearly bringing it out of choice and, indeed, in a society that is tested by pandemic, by economic hardship, which is the result of your own management incompetence, incompetence, arrogant impotence, arrogant impotence. And instead of strengthening the market, instead of strengthening the world of work, now that they need it more, you saw it as an opportunity to completely unlock the hands to those employers - not all of them are, of course, the same - who think now is an ideal opportunity to exploit the workers as much as they can, to sack them out of control, to force them to elastic work, but this time with the law on their side. The government's rhetoric is really outrageous in order to make white black and to convince us that the obvious is not true. For people who work for what you say, it just sounds like provoking nonsense. I am talking about workers, not those who are in a high-paid position thanks to their family or party acquaintances. Real workers are truly surprised by the style, the ignorance of your arguments, your lack of contact with everyday life, which all those who are involved in the private sector, not just in the public sector. You say, for example, that a mother or father will be able to work longer hours to stay on Friday with the family. However, what you do not tell them is that when it will take and whether the worker will not decide himself, ladies and gentlemen, the employer decides. And not everyone is "PASTRATO" as the employer has the option of giving the day off in a semester. You also do not say that the control mechanisms, which could check whether everything should be applied at the end of the day or whether these control mechanisms have been completely weakened. So you let the worker work unpaidly twice as much hours in holidays and holidays as on Sundays and hours wasted. And since the worker remains on his own, he is supposed to be equal, without a collective agreement, without an APR, without a union, without protection from dismissal, you have left him no choice at all. He'll tell him everything the employer tells him, he'll work tire-hours, and he'll let the days get together for when they don't need him. And if he's seasonal in six months, he won't take it. He plays this too, he gets it, won't he? But the part or the full-time worker will take some day off, what he gets, when he's already burned and that's reality. For what you are already making positive in the bill, the same applies and, in essence, acts as a pretext for the provisions - looting. Additional agreements and arrangements for parental leave or measures against violence and harassment at work are clearly positive, but because of the overall dissolution with the rest of the bill they will not be able to function properly and will end up in a blank letter. Because yes, the employee can ask, but the employer can refuse. What does that mean in practice? That people with family issues, those women who raise their own children, people with troubled health or reduced tolerances due to age will become more and more frequently on the sidelines of the job race, who are unemployed or forced into black labor. Apparently, the wages are going to fall. Unemployment will increase, especially those already in a very difficult position, and these are usually women and young people without experience, young people and young workers. Brain-drain, instead of turning back, as the New Democracy has been electorally and continues to eat until today, will be strengthened by new waves of fleeing of those who have the ability and qualifications and are ambitious to claim more than the basic salary, which, instead of increasing it for two years, no word, no talk. Some of the problematic points, in particular Articles 55 and 59, point them out with serious arguments and the Scientific Service of the Parliament. It states: 'It must be noted, however, that in the case of the science of labour law, the authenticity of individual agreements with the employer is generally called into question precisely because of this dependence of the former on the latter'. This is what Parliament's Scientific Service says, but you, by cynicism, have been baptizing them since the morning 'a obsolete conception of the last century'. Last century the employer took advantage of the value of work, now he has stopped doing so! Now he doesn't do it anymore! If we look at these in combination with what the New Democracy Government has to do in education, the worst enemy of excellence and work with a view to this place is declared celebratingly. Once the government, the Mitsotakis Government, has tried to deepen the class differences in the country and redistribute wealth to the benefit of the few. On the one hand, it states that it has no delusion and that we are all equal. This delusion, however, was taken by Mr Mitsotakis before the election. He said, we are not all equal and we will never be equal. At the same time, it expects workers to massively acquire the illusion that they are equal to their employers and that is why they do not need the state on their side, neither collective agreements nor R & D nor the right to strike nor trade unionism. The workers, that is, their eight-hour struggles, were wrong all these years because they had no neoliberal "excellent" to talk to them about the reconciliation of family and working life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u244	Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u245	Not to talk about claims, which are now no longer called rights, but privileges and those who ask for them are dogmatic and tortured. However, the world does not really have any illusions about your motives anymore and will show you every opportunity from now on. It will, in fact, show it at the appropriate time by the highest means of counter-attacking it, its vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u246	Complete, Mrs. Christidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u247	I'm closing, Mr. President, and I'm sorry. Ladies and gentlemen, the eternal difference between the Conservative Right Party and the Left and the progressive forces of the place was and will always be that the Left was with the weak. The right was always with her "friends", her few "friends". You were, you were, you were, you were, you were, you were, like, a few. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u248	Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy has the floor. Here, Mrs Evriou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill attempts to adapt Labour Law to the needs of the fourth industrial revolution and digitisation. This adjustment has positive provisions concerning the fight against harassment and violence at the workplace. After all, I had raised the matter very early in time for the Committee on Equality and Youth of the House to meet on this subject. Secondly, the establishment of a new licensing framework for parents and caregivers. I am pleased that my proposal has been heard by way of a question, which I had tabled for the establishment of a special maternity leave and for the mothers of IDOs, that is, in the public and in the wider public sector. In addition, the establishment of a framework for the protection of workers in the platforms, such as deliberations. I had tabled a question about the working conditions and the risk of the work that these people have in their work and measures to regulate teleworking. At the same time, this bill introduces amendments that are at the core of labour rights. Before I move on to them, I would like to highlight three elements. Firstly, because we are talking about workers' rights, it is clear that they are becoming of major social importance. Therefore, any reform cannot be judged by the intentions, but by the result of the greatest social acceptance that it could have. The second point is how we deal with the issue of labour rights in European and world affairs. The public debate on strengthening the role of collective bargaining has already begun in Europe. As far as Greece is concerned, I have here a post on “Kathemerini” electronic version in 2015, which said that operational contracts are mainly signed, while individual ones are constantly growing. On the other hand, in this report it says that in the Netherlands, Germany, France, Italy and Spain, sectoral contracts dominate. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, according to a survey by GUARDIAN, from Germany to New Zealand, discussions are now focusing on four days instead of five days' work. This system is already in force in Britain in some companies, but pilots have also been established in Spain. In fact, the equal pay for women and men has also been established in Spain. I submit to the Minutes all the excerpts. It's in English, but it's from "GUARDIAN". [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] In fact, Biden's financial programme involves more than double the minimum federal wage and greater participation of trade union workers. So we are going to strengthen labour rights. Thirdly, I think it is obvious that the elasticisation of working conditions and employment relations imposed by the Memorandum of Understanding did not create new investments. I'm an investment champion, I'm a supporter of small and medium-sized enterprises. However, even these businesses themselves know that in order for their business to be viable, workers should have an income available for consumption. On the basis of this data, therefore, I am of the opinion that the provisions relating to the core of labour rights need some improvement proposals and some insurance margins. In fact, my position today aims to support the New Democracy and the Government, on the basis of the principles of my resignation, our pre-election commitments and our programme statements, but also by exploiting my political experience - twenty years - I am now in charge of New Democracy - my scientific training and my professional experience, since for twenty years I have been qualified in matters of insurance and labour law. Apart from that, however, I have two personal details. The first is that I have been deeply conscious of myself, of my choices, my experiences and of what I've been defending for twenty years now in the courtrooms. I am also responsible for my parliamentary duties. In fact, I have also raised the question of outstanding pensions very early, how some solutions could be more appropriate. However, it seemed from the outset that other manipulations should be carried out. And today I have tabled opinions on some points in this matter that should be further processed. The second is that I express and represent my generation as authentic. We are the generation of the Memorandum of Crisis, of the Thirty-nine then ten years ago, now forty-nine, who have experienced this crisis, while the coronary pandemic has come. And really, I am blown up and put close to my generation, but also to the younger generations, because I was also an appointed youth consultant in the Municipality of Thessaloniki, as well as the chairman of the organisation "Young Europeans Organized Achievements". So we all have a social requirement to create new well-paid jobs in a sustainable way. That must be and is the bet of this bill. So I will focus on three points which I said in detail in committee. The first is the adjustment of working time. By definition, the relationship between a worker and an employer is an unequal relationship, a heterogeneous relationship. It contains the element of dependence. So there we must put an insurance policy in place for the additional reason that if we go to the widest use of individual contracts, then the principle of collective bargaining, which is a key element, is the committee' s observation. Furthermore, with regard to Article 66, in respect of redundancies, the'umbrella' is very well extended. However, as the Scientific Committee of the Parliament observes, the clear intention of the legislature should be made clear if it changes the current framework for burden of proof. And with regard to the choice between reintegration or additional compensation, as I have clearly said, this should be the only right of the worker, because the hub is reintegration, work. Otherwise, there is a risk that we will go to the other point, where we will be abolishing and canceling judicial decisions. But the most central one, the most insured link of all, is the one which has been heard by other colleagues in the Chamber, and the increase in the control mechanisms. It is right to upgrade the APRC. But how will this upgrade be done? By staffing, with technical equipment, with financial self-sufficiency, because the role of the EIA is not only collective. His role is preventive, his role is to cure accidents at work and reconciliation. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In conclusion, this draft law should set out those safeguards, which will give rise to a relationship of security and working peace between an employer and a worker. That is in both interests. At the same time, the state must do all it can to motivate our young people to stay here and not to create another wave of Brain Drain. Greece has invested in its minds. Let us make use of this investment and that really will be the best reform. Finally, we have to do our best for both working women and for working mothers. Because the woman has an undetermined right to self-determined her body and not to be in the 'baby or family' dilemma, and indeed to follow her for it. And I'm actually fiercely testifying that as a mother, as a fighter lawyer and as a common worker I've encountered a lot of obstacles across my way. With these thoughts, Minister, I am voting in favour of the bill and I invite you to see my proposals positively. Thank you so much!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u250	Here comes Mr. Michael Katrin from the Change Movement. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u251	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after ten years of economic crisis and one and a half years of pandemic, where we have a great fall in incomes of workers and families, which we have only seen in the western world, in a situation where social and trade protests have almost been exhausted, in a country where long-term unemployment is on the table and private debt is growing rapidly and shortly before the end of the exceptional support measures and the employment conservation clauses and the seizures of thousands of auctions and first homes are launched and suspended, at this juncture, the New Democracy Government has chosen to bring this bill to Parliament. Why? Because it believes that this is a unique opportunity with fear and insecurity to dominate the workers and the trade union movement in retreat and because it believes that mediation, which allows it to say and do what it wants, allows it to limit the debate to the points of interest, to conceal the negative effects, to deport and even to disguise all those who have a different view. Most of all, he knows very well that the impact of this bill will be extremely unfavourable to workers, but they will appear in a second year, while at the same time he knows that they will be extremely favourable to employers and they will appear immediately. The government is, therefore, lawful today blackmailing, opportunistic and above all one-sided, and therefore unfairly, with a project of cheap labour and limited rights that does not concern the many, but leads them to the margin. Ladies and gentlemen, I disagree with those who say that the bill was made in the leg and is sketchy. In my opinion, it has been written by very experienced hands - with expertise, I dare say - but communication and deception. Those who shaped it are well aware of what they are doing and where they are aiming. Behind the individual positive provisions which we can all support, real targeting is hidden, namely the abolition of eight-hour and collective agreements, the cancellation of the same concept of overtime, the facilitation of redundancies and, of course, the demonisation and distribution of trade unionism. You refer to examples and good practices abroad, such as children's stations at the workplace, reward bonuses, excellent technology equipment, free meals or launch brakes. But you hide the important differences with modern Greek reality. Really, which country has 20% unemployment and ongoing Brain Drain? In which country, ladies and gentlemen, is the length of formal weekly work the highest in the European Union? Which country has the second highest percentage of long-term workers? Finally, what country has the highest proportion of employees in the European Union working on Saturday and Sunday, according to the latest study by the Institute of Labour of the GFCM? The answer to all four questions is Greece! Did you really, Mr Minister, have you spoken with a worker of EUR 300 or EUR 500, who is prerequisite for having his own laptop or fired because he had no internet line at his home to keep working outside hours or by teleworking? Have you visited any of the thousands of small businesses in the country that are housed in inappropriate areas? Have you even considered the unbearable cost and time-consuming suffering which a worker will suffer when he is made redundant to claim legal compensation - and not the 10% reduced as you predict - or his judicial justice when he is fired? Will you establish special courts, as is the case in most European countries, since you say and claim to be in line with the European acquis? Really, how do you think a redundant worker can live four months without getting any income that is entitled to his legal allowance? And the list of simple, human, everyday questions is big, as it seems to be the distance that separates you from the world of work and real life. Do you really believe in the government, in the majority of the New Democracy, that most employers will invest time and money to settle workers' working hours, as you idyllically present to us and present us in the next two days? Who's gonna force them? The Secretary-General? Are you blind or just not concerned about why you serve a specific agenda? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, all this manipulation is justified under the pretext of growth. But nowhere has there ever been growth without social cohesion. There has never been any development, without social peace and agreement. There has never been sustainable development, without rights and hope for workers. Today's bill, really, mitigates or exacerbates the inequalities of a society, trying to breathe after almost twelve years of continuous crisis and recession? You are broadening inequalities and creating conditions of social conflict and social polarization and now that you are voting for the bill and in the immediate future with its implementation, but also when in future a progressive government changes this bill, why be sure it will change. What you are doing, ladies and gentlemen of the government, is very simply to undermine the country's prospects of sustainable development, when at the same time the new American President and European leaders can read the challenges of the future, bringing workers to the heart of the social and development model. What are you doing? You legislate for the few and the chosen ones. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Hatzidakis and the current majority of the New Democracy may consider it a success of ideological victory by devoting basic provisions of Law 1264/1982, the law of PASOK and Andreas Papandreou, which for decades gave voice, hope, status, but also power to the workers. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, the democratic and progressive reforms of Andreas Papandreou are not eradicated from the memory and consciousness of the citizens, but from history itself. You are turning rights, which have been conquered by democratic struggles, into those for the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, as long as this bill protects workers' rights, the more the bankruptcy code is a second chance, which will soon lead to further demolition and shrinking of Greek entrepreneurship. Behind fine titles there is a socially unjust and deeply anti-government choice of the government, a choice at the cost of social, moral, economic, for many, for the weak, for the non-preferential. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. It is an option with which we in the Change Movement have drawn a clear separating line in an absolute and unnegotiable way. You are creating the need for a progressive political expression which will not only bring hope to the world of work and young people, but will create conditions for a new social contract. That is why our choice of responsibility toward the world of work, toward young people, toward the homeland, is very simply to vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u252	Mr Anastassios Hatzidis has the floor from the New Democracy. Mr. Giannoulis, Mr. Constantinidis, Mr. Delis and Mr. Ciridis, will be followed by the next five minutes of the third cycle. Here you are, Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately, on the basis of this bill, we have heard slogans from the last century. We have heard excesses, such as the eight-hour abolition, the collective agreements are being abolished, the Labour Inspectorate is being dismantled and others, respectively, with the ultimate aim of supposedly serving the employers' interests. However, we have heard nothing about those provisions that shield labour rights in today, in modern times. SYRIZA took the lead in disseminating false news, claiming the exclusive right of sensitivity to workers and their rights. Sadly, however, modern problems are not dealt with either with unadulterated screams or with free slogans. What's the result? None. I shall say this very simply: the workers did not squeeze on the bait, they did not believe in any of your cries. The treasure's carbon! It became clear in last Thursday's strike with the minimal participation that the "father of the Fights" we heard was a fantasy, that the "revolutionary gymnastics" has obviously faded and that the world of work wants modernization of the framework while, of course, respecting it. With today's resources, no one can make fun of the worker. He reads, gets informed and judges who's telling the truth. He knows very well what happens every day on the market and especially younger workers, the people of my generation, who live on their side, the difficulties of the market, black work, undeclared overtime, harassment against women, arbitrary redundancies, are the ones who realise that this bill meets the needs of our times. So the bill strengthens and protects the worker much better. The introduction of a digital working card combined with the flexibility in working hours responds to modern working conditions. The worker will be able to choose his working hours and get more free time for him and his family. So Greece becomes one of the few countries in Europe, which establishes claims by the worker and an additional fee and, of course, severe penalties to the employer if overtime is ultimately illegal. With the card the employer will not be able to impose excess working time, because thanks to technology everything will be controlled in real time. So this is the supposed eight-hour abolition? The opposition argues that the road is gradually opening so that an employer can impose ten hours of employment. This is a deliberate distortion. It should be noted that in our country too, collective agreements have been settled on SYRIZA. In the European Union, six out of ten businesses give the right to flexicurity in the times of joining and leaving work. The Hatzidakis bill therefore brings about a groundbreaking regulation. Given that it shields eight hours, it allows workers to regulate their weekly hours according to their desire and needs. This is a right, not an obligation, as opposition is wrongly claiming. Finally, this is a freedom for the worker. And the control and respect of all of this will be much more effective, much more stringent. The conversion of the Labour Inspectorate into an Independent Authority shields its independence. It can therefore be undisturbed to carry out strict checks without interventions, footnotes and asterisks. The bill brings a number of other positive arrangements, which opposition should today tell us why it does not support them. Why are you voting against the empowerment of the working woman who is being harassed in her work? Why are you voting against her right to denounce the incidents without fear of dismissal or professional degradation? Why are you voting against the four-month parental leave for both parents paid by the OAED? And why do you vote against the license for five days, the ban on the father's dismissal for six months from his child's birth? Also, another important regulation for our time, dominated by distance work is this: At last we have the employee's right to digitally disconnect from work from time to time. Today the framework is undetermined. Many offer more hours of work than home without it, of course, being proved and, of course, without being rewarded. So our country becomes the third in Europe and in the OECD, after France and Italy, which finally legislates the right of workers to refrain from electronic teleworking after the end of their working hours. In practice, therefore, workers earn quality free time to make it available as they wish. And since demographic is now a national issue, a national challenge, the bill strengthens the worker who wants to have children. Both parents will now have special parental leave. In particular, for young fathers, paternity leave will be fourteen days and I am pleased, Mr Minister, that what we had discussed here with Mrs Syregella in this Chamber on the occasion of a question I had tabled. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of employment of the Ministry of Labour responds to the needs of today and brings the Greek labour market to a pace of Europe. This is a flagrant reform that shields employment rights in an effective way, protects the privacy of workers and creates conditions for competitive businesses. It's a bill progressive, no matter how bad it is for some people. It leaves political anachronism behind and we choose the 21st century. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u254	Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say to Mr Hatzidis that I know that the New Democracy does not like the truth to spoil reality. However, because there is a sketch between truth and lies, Mr Hadjivassiliou should have known that much of what he said we would not vote on will be voting in favour of. So the truth will ruin your reality. Minister, despite your suffocated attack this morning on SYRIZA, despite the shallow approach of your rapporteur, despite the childish arguments of the Kyranakis type, who invest and frame your work bill, I am sure that at the end of the day the 60% rate with your favourite citizens saying 'no' in this bill will become universal. If you continue in the same direction tomorrow, I don't know, it can win percentages - we've seen them in polls on New Democracy - and 110%. It won't surprise us. However, I would surely like to say that you have a capacity in terms of a fourth industrial revolution called'similarity'. I will define it as follows: You cause consciousness and public opinion with all these tragic historical coincidences you choose. On the day when the Greeks protest against the labour bill, against your work and your attempt to hit it, we are talking in the House about teleworking. On the eighth anniversary of the closure of the ERT with international impact and humiliation of the country, the former Prime Minister is faking up while he's trying to talk. Today, when thousands of young children who are tested by Mrs Kerameos' vengeance to open their wings, we are discussing the working conditions for these children too, to be jungle conditions. How do you do it, I honestly wonder. You have used up every possibility of malnutrition in the past two years. Remember what? For the pandemic? For the environment? For poverty? For the redistribution of income? To weaken the ERC and education? For the war you have declared in every public good? Today is the time for work, especially today that we should honour the children who give tests. I say this because you will definitely be caught on Wednesday by the pain if the Greeks strike: "Get out now when the children give us tests?" Why did you remember them in the circumstances and what this bill provides for, that these children are the workers of the future who will have to deal with the articles, the contents - the trick of this bill? No, it's work time. Today we should vision the future of the next generations of workers, who would work less, quality, better, with better pay and better conditions. Instead, what do you say? Employer's workman's equal boat, equal waters'. But that can't be done, by definition. And then, in your yesterday observance of your fixed-term work contract with SKAI, you asked a question to the Opposition and you said, 'Have we read the same bill? Has SYRIZA read the same bill?’ I do not have a fixed-term contract with SCAI or part-time work. I object to the same question: has the Scientific Committee of Parliament read the same bill as what you have submitted? Because I understand that it raises serious objections and objections. Mr Hatzidakis, I have listened very carefully to Mrs Euthymou. I assume that it will remain in New Democracy, despite the fact that it has attempted to save the authority of your prolongation which, as I said, is severing from the Cyranaki approaches, from your own skilled study and the anti-SYRIZA hysteria, while you were the good Vice-President of the New Democracy, once. There was the record that you were the neo-democratic Vice-President and you compete, I understand, in intensity with the model, which you probably wanted to avoid. However, I assure you, Mrs. Happiness wants you to do well. And all the employees, over 60% of whom say 'take it back', want, if not the good of the government, the good of the place. Honestly, I cannot overlook that the Minister, who introduces this bill today, has a political past. With great respect, Mr Hatzidakis, I will tell you that you have been the political person who has systematically performed contracts against the public interest in recent years. You started by air transport. Today, from Rhodes to Athens, the ticket of the two companies has exactly the same price. That's called a oligopoly. That's where you came after the privatization of Olympics. The same goes for the environment. The Golden Boys of PPC have been invented, your decisions with the PPC have been taken with all of this. Mr. Catherine, exercise if you want with your hands you can do out of halloween. At the moment, too, the third contract concerns work. I know it's hard to defend a function that you don't have experiential inside. I'm not telling you to offend you, but if you can't feel what work means is perhaps because in your life your only employer was New Democracy. Hard, but true. What can we do? It is not the case with all those in this Chamber. [[At this point, the ending bell of the working time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] However, I have to ask myself why. I'm closing, Mr. President. Mr. Hatzidakis, I'm really concerned about why. Why so hatred and perseverance against labour and workers? I keep thinking about the story of the frog and the scorpion. You'll know that the scorpion pinched the frog while he was trying at a difficult time to read the Ruvikon. He pinched the frog, so they both sink. You'll know, I'm imagining the answer. The scorpion said: 'It is my nature'. Mr. Hatzidakis, it's your nature, it's the nature of your lineup, it's the nature of the scorpion. You fight work, you fight all public, public goods, young people and their dreams, you fear to treat them as a decent prospect of this country. Fear of democracy to the point of humiliating Opposition Chiefs and Chief of Police Response. Fear of progress. Because for sure, as far as what is called a great deal of politicians is concerned, that after the great darkness comes at dawn, we are now experiencing the great darkness. Because your nature is the scorpion and not anything else. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u256	We will give the floor to Mr Efstathios Constantinidis from the New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u257	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, is the 'fighting mother' bill? In this draft law, have I embodied the opposition bet its political change? Do you really think that the legislative initiative being discussed is being reversed by the interests of the workers, or did you come up with an opportunity, why did you think that the issue of a wholehearted conflict is being offered? If the first is the case, then see what is now on the labour market and reread the draft law article to an article, and then you will surely find the answers given to the inequalities between public and private employees, the injustice suffered by fathers who are today less entitled to them than mothers, which ultimately goes to the detriment of women when the employer thinks that it is in the interests of a man, the unfavourable treatment of contractors and adolescents, the anxietys and needs of private workers, who need a little longer in the process of assisted reproduction, or why they are responsible for caring for their relatives, who are helpless. And when you get to the articles on the digital working card how will you deny that it is a tool that fights black work, undeclared overtime and tax evasion? Reading to upgrade the Labour Inspectorate to an independent authority how you will overlook the correctness of a choice, which gives even greater independence to the institution and makes the audit procedure even more impracticable and effective? How can you ignore the arrangements that are more drastic in violence and harassment against workers and those for health and safety at work? How will you not think of the young people and young people who have fallen victim to abuse, because of the legislative gaps? How are you gonna look them in the eyes again? When you are in arrangements to upgrade the 'ERGANI' system, 'ERGANI' II', how can you not understand the reduction of the administrative burden on businesses, transparency in industrial relations, but also the benefit of the interconnection of the various digital registers and the linking of information systems, so as to improve any weaknesses that occurred during the pandemic period? If you take off myopic opposition glasses, how will you not see that the provisions of the draft law extend the protection of workers from invalid redundancies and equalise the related compensation for workers with the equivalent of other workers? But if you remove the political caps, you will surely find that the extent of the activities allowed on Sundays is equivalent to those in place in the countries of the European Union and in particular the Mediterranean, that there is a need to modernise the teleworking framework and to establish the right to disconnect. But especially for disconnection, a top right for workers, how can you explain that you are voting against it, or even that you are not voting for it, which you have been bailing against the New Democracy MEPs a few months before because they agreed to give some time to the Member States? How hypocrisy! Anyone who can see beyond his party court knows that, regardless of institutional framework, distortions and abusive practices have existed and will always exist in industrial relations. The question is whether the arrangements discussed represent an improvement in workers' rights and further shield legality. The answer to these questions is unreservedly affirmed. Therefore, in fact, your attitude would be inexplicable, one would think until one met the arrangements in the draft law on trade unionism. That's where it's all revealed. How can you accept the assimilation of the protection of trade unions to that of pregnant women, i.e. the group with the highest guarantees, the obstacles to the patronage of trade unions by employers and parties, the ban on the reintroduction of an illegal strike by secondary and tertiary bodies, the introduction of civil liability for trade unions - for whom trade unions are we talking about? For those who have committed violence or other illegal action during strikes - to ensure in the event of a guaranteed service strike at least 1/3 of the usual provided, to adopt measures on transparency in trade through the inventory of organisations and the use of modern means in trade proceedings? How, however, can you conflict with those who consider the right of citizens to be able to travel, to get to work, to take part in, to go or to receive their child from an obligation, to reach a doctor in time? Those who ultimately disagree with the strike. You can't, because that's your yeast. Therefore, it is not your problem, nor the overtime arrangements, nor the working time regulation, which at least those who have governed you have voted and implemented in the past. In fact, SYRIZA recently asked for the settlement to be applied to the hotel officials. Your problem, then, is that you cannot be sent from morbid situations that cause incalculable harm to society and citizens. You are committed to the pathogens, the maintenance, the distortions, the arbitraryness of the few at the expense of the many. We are followers of the reforms, of modernization, of equality, of freedoms and of progress of all Greeks and of all Greeks. I will close with that, ladies and gentlemen. The rights of workers describes them and defines them, in fact, labour legislation, but in reality they protect them, serve them and upgrade them the growth and prosperity of each country. There is no opposite example in the entire world. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u258	The next speaker is Mr Yiannis Delis from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u259	First of all, let me say here that any similarity with persons and situations is not symptomatic. A worker in a large commercial store and a mother of two young children just before attending her shift is called at the director’s office. Responding to fatigue and anxiety to tighten her soul is presented to the director and he hears him say: “My dear, as you know, our business meets very great competition and in order for everyone to succeed, we must help her. We know your skills, as well as your commitment to our company, for the next period and for as long as we need - for our common good - to ask you to work for two hours more than the eight you work for so far. Don't worry, when the work goes down the longer hours you've worked, you won't lose them, you'll get them on leave and off the day off. Only you know - the director continues - "according to the law that the government has passed, that must seem to be what you are asking, my child, and you too. So here we have a request to set up your working time for you to sign it. You know, we have to be legal too. Don't forget, for the next few months, the store will need to stay open on Sundays. And as you understand, you will need, my dear, to rotate and most of these Sundays." The young woman and mother enter the point at once. It's all back to her mind, and fast. He thinks 'yes', he thinks 'no'. She thinks that if she says yes, then she's going to go home, not on the 5th that goes back to now, but about 7:00 at night. When will she be able to take a breath? Cooking for the next day? Can she see her kids? To talk about their lessons and their school? To enjoy them and play with them? And her daughter, what soon she grows up, needs to talk to her more. But never? When will they be able to take the boy to the reasoning he needs? And that doesn't take a postponement. When will she be able to see her husband, with those hours the irregular and the spasms, which he also has in the supermarket he works for? When are they gonna be able to go for a walk on Sunday, take a bath, live a little bit like people and not like robots working? The young woman and mother aren't long enough to make her decision. It says, you see, her heart and she boldly answers to the director: "Excuse me, Mr. Director, but I cannot accept your proposal. You know, if I had been working overtime so far, I did this to make more money for the costs that are all running. What am I supposed to do with overtime without money? And then, you know, I need some time to see my family and my children. And you're telling me to lose my Sundays the only day we live? It can't be done. I prefer, my Director, to continue working as has been done so far." The manager moves his head frustrated and says to the employee: "Chryma, because our business, our company, is our big family, Mrs. Cairides, and we are all part of this family and our family never deny our offer. Isn't that right? Isn't that what you're saying? Unless you don't think" - the director tells her - 'Your own member of this family, because that's what your refusal shows.' [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] They spend a few days and at the end of the month, the young merchant is notified of being fired. When he asks why they're chewing on her. They don't tell her she's fired because she refused to work unpaid overtime. Besides, dismissal for that reason is not allowed by the law, either. And all and all, the company applies the law to him, keeps him. When, then, she is told that she had reduced performance and when business has fallen. The young mother, however, doesn't put it down. It shall notify its operational association. It's not employers', they exist, you know, and that. He trusted him, because he refused this club to sign a collective agreement with a settlement of the working time with the PASOK law that kept him and SYRIZA. That is why the employer is bypassing this club and calling on the workers once - a one-seated in her office to ask them for a ten-hour period. Other women think about it, others deny it. But then, since her own release, most with a cold heart accept it, as they think of the unemployment awaiting them. Now, as you can see, it's club time. All these miserable methods of employer and punishing redundancies must be responded with strike. But for the union to decide, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the general assembly must be held with fifty plus one percent of the financially settled members of the union. You know, you voted for it! That's what your law says, a law that keeps him in New Democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. Thank you. Despite the firm's persistent efforts, there are fewer than half the workers in the general assembly, as the employer - well-known things - openly presses, blackmails, threatens and has already accepted the arrangement. So the young fired woman then decides to go to court and ask for her reinstatement after her dismissal, according to and according to the law, is void. What's the court doing? Look out! She doesn't deserve it, but she's asking for evidence to prove her claims, such as, for example, collecting financial information from the company, showing that the company's business is not going well or going well, as she says. The trial is delayed, as usual. Meanwhile, the employer’s lawyers very discreetly show in the fired that, so back to work, her life will become inviolable. After all this, and with daily expenses and debts running, the young brave mother agrees to end her matter with a few more wages as compensation from her old employer, as your law provides. That's your law. He's the one you're showing unscrupulously to the workers as progress. And it's not enough for you to desolate the lives of the workers, now start desolating words. What did Brecht say? He said: "This Babylonish confusion of words comes from the fact that it is the language of those who deviate." For you he wrote it for the poem. Apparently the young working mother lost. He won something, and what he won isn't a bit. She realized who its opponent is, as it appeared in front of her rival class, not only her employer, not only his state, with his parties, and his laws and his courts, but all of them, all of you organized well in a system that the individual fights don't scare him. But it scares you, the organization of workers and their mass struggle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u260	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u261	I shall conclude, Mr President. You are frightened by their organized indiscipline in your illegitimate laws and in the fringes of the employer. You know what? What frightens you and your class will happen. We'll take care of that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u262	The next speaker is Mr Dimitrios Ciridis from New Democracy. You have the floor, Mr. Courides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u264	It's hard now. After example, it's hard. I understand, but it's okay. Go ahead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u265	Good evening, everyone. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been two reports from previous speakers on my face. If it was one, I could overlook it. On both sides, allow me one comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u266	It was visual.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u267	If you want to compare CV and see who has worked in this life hard, really, who has paid taxes and contributions and who has lived wrongly protected in various posts, I would be happy to do so. The challenge is welcome. If that were the challenge.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u268	That's all! Not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u269	Don't look here. Another look.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u270	I am referring to all those who have referred to me. I'd be happy to compare, then!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u271	Mr. Courides, I mentioned why you made signals. I'm not talking about your CV.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u272	I am therefore referring to where everyone comes from. Who has really been a worker here and can speak of workers and who has been privileged to the different systems over the past few years and is here the protector of the workers. They know very well what I'm talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u273	You're telling your Minister about this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u274	And now I'm coming to the main. The parliamentary and political battle was presented...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u275	But you're not ashamed!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u276	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u277	Mr. President, now he's telling us unordered...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u278	I watched and found that no one was interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u279	Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u280	Please. You don't agree. I get it. We don't all agree here, Mr. Comrade. But we're not interrupting. Excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u281	Yeah, less nerve tell him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u282	Respect for the speaker, whom I must guard against all wards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u283	But be less cowardly when it comes to faces.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u284	Please, no vacation. Keep going, Mr. Courides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u285	The truth hurts! The parliamentary and political battle for the bill under discussion was presented by the Opposition - certainly by SYRIZA - as the mother of the fighting. A wider ideological battle was built around it. The cries and excesses, "Thatser", "Thaceism", neoliberalism, and all known. The vocabulary, almost mechanical, has been known for its repetition, a long - melted candy. I won't speak in detail about the provisions of the bill. Other Members of the Com mittee have done so, and of course the Minister himself has done so for the provisions they protect. Besides, it is well known that 4/5 of the articles of the bill will be voted on when they are put to the vote anyway, gentlemen of the opposition. I would, however, like to insist on the wider ideological and political battle that is of great importance. So welcome to the challenge. We're here to talk about her. I heard SYRIZA's rapporteur - she is not now in the Chamber - and in the committee, and here this morning in plenary, speaking of 'Thatser', neoliberalism, Eastern Europe, Latin America. Now look at the problem. I read from the Minutes of the House: 'This is what you do, ladies and gentlemen of the government. You only do so that your favoured and the Greek Industrial Association, the local and foreign capital, can come out of this crisis and be won from above. How's that gonna happen? Dissolved working relationships. Instituting the jungle in the field of industrial relations. By excompensating the workers. But, of course, what can one expect from the fanatical neo-liberals of neoliberalism? Creating labour relations of the type of Latin America and turning Greece, from a Eurozone country to a country of Eastern Europe." From the Minutes. The problem is that the SYRIZA rapporteur did not say that. SYRIZA's rapporteur heard them from SYRIZA's leader Alexis Tsipras in 2010. Then Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, along with Mr Ragosi, of course, was in the government. At that time they were accused of neoliberalism and 'tacearism' and of Latin America and Eastern Europe. Today, as SYRIZA, he blames others for neoliberalism and "savageism". This is becoming even more interesting - I do not want to insist on staff - on the question of political consistency and inconsistency. But the interesting thing here is that the answer was then called on to give it to Alexis Tsipras, the then Minister of Labour of the Government of Papandreou, the well-known and popular Mr. Luka Katseli, who then denounced Alexis Tsipras for inaccurateness, dangers, contradictions - all here, false - in the Minutes - excesses, now adopted by the SYRIZA rapporteur, the then accused of shaking the finger for neoliberalism in the Greek Parliament. Let me generalize. Forty years - this is not the case, it has been in 2021, it has been in 2010, it has been in 1990, it has been denounced by'seasonism' and by Eastern Europe. The problem lies in the fact that Britain, ladies and gentlemen - if you did not know - has increased its distance from our country in 1980. We're behind. We are denounced by the 'tiemens', but they have moved forward very much. The then problematic country of Europe became Europe's second largest economy. As far as Eastern Europe is concerned, and with such ease we are denouncing, almost self-pity, that in 1990 was 1/5 of the Greek wages, the Polish and today are in the same way as us and that some countries from Eastern Europe have exceeded, such as Slovakia, Slovenia, the Czech Republic, the Baltic States. And we continue to denounce the middle-aged working ages of Eastern Europe, while their wages are getting better than ours, while their unemployment is at 1/3 of ours. Of course, we are denouncing'savings' for all sorts of diseases. You have reached the point, not a random one, but your former Foreign Minister, to come and talk to us about the miners' strike. Let me inform you that no one in Britain in 1984 - nor in the Labour Party - defends the miners' strike. Everyone, left-wing and right-wing, thinks it's a big mistake. And in the former miners ’ bulwarks in northern England they are today electing the descendants of Thatcher and not the Workers, as they have done until recently. This is about history, to know what everything is and not to talk with such ease and as candy, about things we don't really know about. At the time we denounce each other, they are laughing, they are overcoming us and they have left us behind, some very far behind. We have had the worst performance in Europe since 1981 and then in the development and protection of the worker. We haven't succeeded either. With this and with these well-known facilities, which we say, when we are in the opposition, we come to the government, we hear them after the next - talk to be done, that is - the country is stuck. We have heard, ladies and gentlemen, that workers are protected from trade unionism, from the laws, from the state, from the Labour Inspectorate. This is all right and good, especially for those who work in the official economy. However, workers are, above all, protected from growth, from the fall of unemployment. If there is unemployment and high unemployment, no matter what the state, the worker and above all, the unemployed who are looking for work cannot be protected. That is why it is very crucial, at last, to agree here that there are no workers, no businesses and no businesses, and that these two go together and we need not to protect trade union aristocracy, as many of you seem to be interested in, but the substantial protection of the vast majority of Greek workers through both the protection and development of unemployment and the attraction of investment, which, in order to be done, must be reformed and all the co-existent, which we have been discussing for forty years, but unfortunately very few times, we have the courage to do. We dare and say 'yes' to the protection of the worker and to the development and adaptation of the country in the 21st century and to the new jobs that this bill and our overall reform programme will bring. You stay with the melted candy. Keep talking about Thatcher, about Eastern Europe and at least cause - I am eulogy with you, I do not want to be strict - laughter and depreciation, without a substantial contribution to the real problem that our country has today. Minister, may I congratulate you on the boldness, courage, the bill, and of course I, along with the rest of the Communism, will support it to the end of the vote. It will be interesting to see what opposition will do in the roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u286	The floor will be taken by the Vice-President of the Parliament and Deputy of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Dimitris Vitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u287	It's not my fault, but Mr. Courides left...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u288	I'm here, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u289	Oh, all right, Mr. Courides. It is not my fault now, but, when someone is forced to walk us across Europe to say how good the bill is, he probably has understood what the bill is, but he has to make a speech. That is the issue. The second, Mr Maraveya, is the following. Since 1919 the first issue was eight hours a day. Then the days came. When it was six days - I don't know if you had lived it - it was forty-eight hours. When it was five days, it was forty hours. If we go for four days, it'll be thirty-two hours. Anything more is overtime. Is that understood? Can we agree on that or will we agree in general, fly hours, fly days? Perhaps we should remember that this bill is so ahead of us and remember the first strike in Greece in Syros, where the main request, if you remember, was ten hours of work, in about 1880. Mr. Katsotis will know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u290	In 1879.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u291	Minister, as far as I read the bill - I read it very well - I must tell you that a 1985 song kept coming to my mind. You'll probably know that too. It's the Katsimija brothers. You should sit down and listen to it at night. I'll tell you the four - five first lyrics: "For a piece of bread, it's not just work, it's not just your body, it's not just your mind. It's his soul they want, man. It has the laws of this story." Here's a law, that's the law, one of the laws of history. If you are long-term, as Minister of Labour, something I do not wish you - it is a political difference, it is not a personal issue - you will bring other laws. You will also bring other amendments, which even from these issues of this law you will remove. You have reached this plenary session tired. You have given so many interviews over the past few months, you have made so many statements - always alone, without apologies on the other hand - and you have made so many leaks to convince that the bill is a bench and the opposition is hypocritical. You've come to leak - it's said by your MPs right now, who have memorized them - the seventeen points of April - you're taking them off, aren't you? - for the bill you will also give rise to a roll-call vote on articles to prove it. Use all weapons of modern communication to conquer Left and other progressive parties. I challenge you to put to the vote the articles you think - and indeed, perhaps quite rightly - that we will vote in favour of them and remove the articles that have caused anger and explosion, not of the parties to the opposition, but of the world of work. I like to see New Democracy MPs coming out, but writers also say that the strike did not work and the world was a little. You lads, were you there? Did you follow the strike? Did you go to the factories? To speak to those who know, to understand, but to talk to you like that? Here I want you to explain the so-called paradox, which brought a bill that, in your opinion, gives new and amazing opportunities to the worker, such as being paid off, working ten hours, having time to do his farm work, what he has inherited, working exodus at once ten hours next time, that he has found only the acceptance and strong support of BSE. You're a little close - maybe you do it another time - to tell us Friedman's general conclusion that greed is good, unless it's bad. That is the basic logic. I have heard you say that a lot of what you have been institutionalizing is already happening. You're right, it's the boss's right. But what you forgot to add is that they happen illegally. You're coming right now and you legalize illegality and I wonder why don't you get six hours a day for teleworking? You know what it means, the doctor knows what it means to be six hours in front of a computer. Why do you not introduce a minimum wage now EUR 751, which means raising wages? Why don't you shape a different legislative framework? I'll see you later. Mr Delis explained to you - he may also blame me for reason - with that very good position, what will happen once this bill is passed. The worker will allegedly negotiate as equal to his employer for the conclusion of an individual contract of employment - because collective agreements, that is to say, that is to say, that you are trying to forget them - will work at least 10 hours a day whenever the employer wants. Because typically and essentially, the eighth hour will be abolished. If he is looking for the days you have promised him in return for payment, he will find that an employer does not have to give them to him and that he can easily deny them to him. Successfully he may be invited to work at any time and in too many cases and seven days a week. The overtime he can ask will have doubled and become extremely cheap for the employer. I would like to remind you of the following, most of the accidents at work occur at the time of overtime or the day following an exterminating overtime. If he does not like this situation, then the employer - as Mr Delis said - can easily get rid of it, get rid of things. If she wants to denounce the arbitraryness of the employer in the state, she will find that there is no state service, but an independent authority, which is so independent, that her administration will be designated by the government. If he asks for other ways and goes to trade - not to repeat the same speech as Mr Delis, and he forgives me for saying so, not to ask for the floor on staff - and if he goes to the courts, then he will see that, with a small price, his employer will be relieved of him, even if he is vindicated. But do you know what's gonna be the worst? If he does all this cycle, he'll have the name on the circuit and he won't be able to find another job. That's how it's done in real life and I'm sorry, but a man who's been telling you forty years in the private sector has changed his job fourteen times, he's been prosecuted, he's been fired, he's paid, he's paid, he's paid - I can't tell that thing - but he knows exactly what's going on. So there are. You are trying nothing less than a total overthrow of the capital-work relationship itself. Mr Mitsotakis had said that the concept of working hours was considered obsolete. Do you know what your ultimate inseparable goal is? The reduction in wage costs. You believe that this will facilitate investment in the green transition and in the digital transition and in general. In other words, you want workers to pay at the end of the day, at the end of the day, the state of investment from which the capital is to be earned, private individuals. That's what you want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u292	Mr. Vitsa, finish because I'm going to be accused of defending the Vice Presidents' consortium!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u293	It is a good guild, the Colonial of the Vice-Presidents, although sometimes it is better than the Colonial of the Presidents! But I am telling you this, that what you can really do is on the one hand know that this law is not going to apply. Here we will be, as Costas Lulles said, will be a dala noon, which he and other anti-government laws will leave the scene and then from anti-multimatum positions we will see what you are voting on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u294	Please prepare the Step and the reason for the MEP of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are laughing and crying. And I said not to put any ancient sayings again, but it is what Thucydides has said, "Aisson has not been removed or you are miserable", that is, it is better to keep what we have, the acquired, than to have no more. I fear that this bill is distributed by the digital card, to see the overtime, you're going through it with parental leave and you're destroying other rights that relate to the relationship between an employer and an employee. First of all, every bill around the workplace has as a mirror and as an impact the pension, when today the reality is completely different on the market and it goes to the same worker and tells the employer "Don't put all the marks on me, I want more on the living, because pension anyway I won't get." When they get to EVKA today and no one picks up the phone and you have not taken care of the final state that you are evangelizing there, with people with disabilities and blind ones still answering the world to have a communication channel, what am I supposed to do with every working bill, when we will in the end have the deadlock on retirement? When the employer and especially the small and medium-sized company that is backbone, is being taxed and has to pay more than 75% in advance of the tax, is being pressed, shot by the taxes of the government and, in particular, by your own and is being magnified, and he is in turn shooting the worker, about what relationship good to speak between the employer and the worker? It is a spring with an hour-time-tire, where the tire will eventually break and deflegate the spring. Now, because you are a legal person, Mr Hatzidakis, you are linked to an effort that you have made in 2009 in a price cartel. I have to recognize it. Then some cartel prices fell. But you also connect to the operation for eight Sundays a year, and then it was under the jurisdiction of the second degree of self-government, which I served and I remember that by self-government. The Aeolus pouch has been opened, where Sunday - just to say it, on the colloquium - will go for a walk. I, too, now ask why the previous speaker, Mr Vitsas, has made a regression, is being circumvented by Law 2190/1920, and because you are a legal person, I sit down and read: Templeras, Vasilis, Petrakis, Professors of Labour Law, is here saying that workers' rights are being circumvented. It is not just Article 59 - we will go down there - but it is Article 65 in terms of compensation. This is where the employer, with a plaque compensation, is given the opportunity to say so, which may be reduced and 10% - and that is what everyone will do, because who is going to go to court to get this remaining 10%? - delay it for four months. What's he gonna eat, what's he gonna drink in the quadrant? If it is considered that the dismissal is not legal, does it not have to take him back again, so does the appetite open, open up the coast of Halos to get rid of supposedly or theoretically expensive workers? I'm not saying that. It's called Labour Law Teachers. Your fellow lawyers say that, Minister. Don't question them. They are praiseworthy scientists who say that here you are being circumvented, apart from the fact that you have also passed from the seats of old age to the European Parliament, here Mr Vassiliou, Professor of Labour Law, says that the revised European Social Charter, Article 24, by decision 9-9-2020 144/2017 against Italy, which had taken place with regard to labour rights, is being violated. It is therefore a violation of the European Charter of Social Rights. Because you have brought, for example, some states, and I would say that the strike is being protected in France, both in Germany and in Italy and in Belgium, not just by collective labour agreements and a legislative framework, but it can also be started by non-union members. In Germany, there is a works council in most companies. If the Board decides that dismissal is not lawful, the employer shall be obliged to respect the workers' council. Sounds fair. I mean, here's a Priori, every employer will think that someone can get fired, because he just likes to say it to the catererpillar. The appetite opens. Do we have a Scientific Committee in Parliament, or do we not have it, is it just advisory and advisory, and do we not take it into account? I read that the Scientific Committee of the Parliament on the Parliament's official site is against the labour bill, because what is it saying here? Time cannot be reallocated at longer and shorter hours, because this is inconsistent with the exchange rate, with the principle of parity, and even says: "Contracts are generally not considered to be acceptable to labour law as a result of the inequality of the relationship between an employer and a worker". That is to say, the Scientific Committee raises the same objection that this whole situation has raised as to whether it is compatible with Labour Law. I'm going to the recital and I'm going to testify to the Minutes, because they're scientists, they're workers, they're people like two legal rapporteurs, three university students. It's Mr. Costas Mavrias, Professor of Law of Athens. What does the spot say? The authenticity of individual workers' and employer's agreements, precisely because of the dependence of the former on the latter, is questionable because the worker is in a weak position. So what do lawyers say here? They question that. Yes, bibliography. Koukiadis, "Individual-labour relations", Papadimitriou, "Individual-Industrial-Industrial-Industrial Law". These will not be taken into account. Because you are also doing the Labour Inspectorate an independent authority and SYRIZA has accused you - in particular Mr Ragus - of placing political persons, then what role is the Scientific Committee of the Parliament, which considers this to be inconsistent with Labour Law? It's not authentic. Did it not give you a thought or what Mr Vassiliou said about the European Charter? So it takes a lot of attention, because the rules and conditions currently prevailing on the market, which have started and the pan-Hellenic degrees will become a coronary, because once St. Jeronymus said: "Man must keep working on a job so that the devil does not find him." These are "dead jobs", they are business of the leg, accidents at work in adverse conditions, with overtime. What overtime? Where are they taking them off? Is that what this is about? This has been the case for years in Greece. He's giving it away whenever the employer wants and whenever he can. There are, of course, small and medium-sized employers, who really pass beyond everything, when everyone falls on them and he falls on the worker. Also, because it's good to look for her...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u296	Finish, Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u297	I shall conclude, Mr President. On the subject of LARCO, which will be left without work, you have not looked for anything else. Because then you were telling us, Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, that there is a penalty with these 136 million, which is arbitrary to the limits of competition. You have no problem with the Vienna Declaration, where Greece is a member of the eighteen countries of Europe's industry. What does the Vienna Declaration say? When an industry is very important for Europe...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u298	Mr. Booba, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u299	I'll be done. Then it can be financed to prevent Europe from being dependent on Russia or Asia on the issue of the cobalt. I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u300	No, no. 'I finish' on the one hand, 'I close' on the other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u301	And the previous speaker...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u302	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u303	You have shown a tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u304	I made a mistake, and I apologize.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u305	It's not a question of mistake. It's democratic, what you're doing, to complete myourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u306	You're done. You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u307	"I leave the synergies, the vision, the touch, the hearing. It's getting late. I'm turning around as a homicide in the ground, in my house. Not that I'm tired, but it's finally late." Kazantzakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u308	I'm addressing everyone. I apologized for showing a tolerance for the Vice-President of the House, and I said so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u309	Let me finish my speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u310	You're wrong. Do not reach ten minutes, because I have to tell you that, in good condition and in keeping with the seventeenth, the last one will speak in an hour and a half. If that's what you think is right and collegial, go on like this. Hot to keep time. Of course, I made the mistake by respecting the Vice President of Parliament, Mr. Vitsa. I was wrong. I apologise, therefore, and it will not be repeated. A small tolerance is fine, but getting to ten minutes, that's not tolerance, it's overreacting. Mr. Treasury, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u311	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law is innovative with strong social significance. It goes hand in hand and meets the needs of the labour market and modern social and technological conditions. It modernises labour law, abolishing anachronistic provisions of the past and adopting best European practices, which will ensure the stability of labour relations and the protection of social rights, giving more opportunities, choices and opportunities to the worker. With the ratification of the 190 Convention of the International Labour Organisation, Greece is taking the lead, forming one of the first countries to ratify this Convention. It ensures the elimination of the phenomenon of violence, sexual harassment at the workplace. The government shows its social face by protecting the working parent without discrimination. The incorporation of the Community Directive 1158/2019 of the European Parliament and of the Council contributes to the reconciliation of personal, family and working life, as new permits are introduced for workers with a view to protecting the foundation of the family. In particular, parental and other special leave are increased for all natural, foster and contractor parents, as well as for workers who take care of them with health problems. For the first time, the OAED will cover parental leave for two months both for father and mother. For the first time, a fourteen-day paternity leave is introduced when a child comes into the world. The list of cases of null and void dismissal, such as the new father, is being widened, which means returning the worker to work and paying the wages for the whole period until he is re-elected. At the same time, six-month maternity leave is granted to certain public sector and general public sector women. Here, Minister, I would like to stop and thank you, because on 28 May of this year I raised an example of a reporter in Alexandroupolis, who has not obtained this privilege, and now you are even including, in a first-line area, women who are in the field of communication and information. This is a category of women's workers who have so far been nowhere in the relevant legislation. In conclusion, by using its digital toolbox combined with the upgrading of the Labour Inspectors' Body to an independent administrative authority, the Government takes an important step towards combating the undeclared overtime of the tax evasion, and this is achieved through the digital labour card, which is a revolution, a great lead in the workplace and in the labour market and is a useful tool for the worker, as it guarantees that the eight-hour working hours are fully protected, giving the worker a new opportunity if he himself requests to concentrate his work in less days, while guaranteeing the registration and control of overtime, the right to disconnect and the adjustment of working time of the worker. In addition, this legislative initiative protects the social interest by trade union excesses and abuse of privileges and not only. Registers of organisations representing workers or employers shall be established and may be held electronically by their members. This ensures transparency in how trade unions operate so that decisions are not taken by organisations - seals. Obviously, trade union action must and will continue to be protected, as is done throughout Europe, but protection cannot mean immunity and trade union immunity cannot be regarded as a progressive policy, even for criminal offences. However, the exercise of the right to strike is protected and, for the first time, rules have been laid down in such a way that it does not conflict with other fundamental rights, such as the work of the non-workers and the service of society as a whole. Civil liability shall be established for trade unions who practice violence or, more generally, carry out illegal acts during the strikes, and not only shall they put an end to strikes which, while illegally proclaimed by the judiciary, are re-issued by the secondary or tertiary organisation. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the current time-frame which we hope will gradually close the painful cycle of a global pandemic is causing opportunities and risks. Historically we have known since Pericles' time that after pandemics humanity has been confronted with social unrest, claims, instability and turmoil. The balanced transition and the healthy 'translation' of this revolt depend on two poles, society and political institutions. Ethos, values and vision are taught and expelled on either side. Anyone who invests in the sterile revolutionary logic does not aim for recovery, does not protect workers' rights, does not have unselfish motives. This bill is another reform initiative by the current government for the benefit of Greek society, a modern, balanced and integrated framework for the work of the 20th century. We're going to vote for a name and a responsibility. Those who vote against will also make it a brand name. They will vote against the protection of maternity, paternity, protection against sexual abuse, the digital working card protecting working hours, as well as overtime. Ladies and gentlemen of Communism, please choose whether to support the worker, the parent, the real trade unionist, the striker and the non-worker. Those who are against the government's effort to lead the country to progress and development are sticking to yesterday's proposal for tomorrow. Minister, I congratulate you on the firm position in your innovative legislative work. I am voting in favour of the Ministry of Labour's draft law because it regulates and complements the legislative framework for work responsibly with the current challenges, transferring the journalist's thanks from Alexandroupolis and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u312	The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Nikolaos Syrmalenes for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u313	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill we are debating today, the labour bill, is obviously at the heart of the neoliberal concept of the New Democracy and is buttoning with all your policy for the benefit of the powerful. You blame us and the whole opposition for returning to the past, but you with some provisions - we exclude the European Union's incorporation directives, which you could bring to another bill and do not deliberately bring them back, to tell us that we are supposed to vote against, which we do not vote against - you are actually bringing us back to the nineteenth century on the points we are talking about today. What do you think about adapting to today? A situation that has been shaped by the forces of unaltered capitalism and neoliberalism in the last three decades in Europe and the world. After 1990, after the fall of old socialism, and with the theory of the end of ideologies the social state in Western Europe shrank. Part-time work, flexible working hours, reduced wages, the abolition of collective agreements, the dismantling of labour relations were then invaded in our lives. These "achievements" are now coming to legalise and perpetuate, assuming that strengthening the powerful domestic and foreign ones will lead to growth that will eventually be diffused in society. In no country in the world this has so far been confirmed. But are part-time work, flexible working relationships, reduced working hours, reduced wages, eight-hour abolition, uncontrolled redundancies? Is stable employment relationships, decent wages and collective labour agreements a step backwards, the right to strike? That is why we continue to defend Chicago in 1896, because you are once again turning us into the nineteenth century and the former Chicago era. Under a covert title on the protection of work and with the backdrop of the positive provisions incorporating the two European directives, the most scandalous backward provisions for the world of work are hidden. The bill is crucially affecting all workers, but especially young people, who will once again be the major victims of precariousness, redundancies, cheap labour and unemployment. The regulations of individual labour law reveal the whole philosophy of the anti-government policy of the bill. Article 55 provides for for forty hours five-hour, but with individual contracts time is arranged by breaking the eighth and reducing the wages. The individual contract is the crown of the neoliberal storm where the strong employer obviously imposes its terms on the worker and in times of precariousness and unemployment. The government says there is already a law to set working time. What law? Law No 1892/1990 provides exclusively for the establishment of an operational collective agreement or agreements between the employer and the works council for a period of up to three months of an increased number of hours. In other words, it also provided for a time limit, but it also prevented individual negotiation. And anyway, since there's this arrangement law, why are you changing it now? Was there a reason to change him? But now let's see how the employer is even more guaranteed. Article 57 states: 'if there is a need for additional employment, the worker has an obligation to provide it'. So it just has to do with it, even if it's a waste of time. The additional employment is paid at 12% additional per hour. In Article 58, a forty-five-day worker can work at the discretion of the employer plus five hours a week and the six-day employee respectively. And this overworking - look out - is not counted on the maximum allowable overtime. Diversification of pay, additional work plus 12%, in favour of work plus 20%, overtime plus 40%, illegal overtime plus 120% creates a real wage reduction. In addition, we also have the Secretary General of the Ministry increasing over a hundred and fifty hours a year overtime. However, by introducing the possibility of settling working time, the government allows an undertaking that would otherwise pay overtime, not to pay those costs. On the other hand, it adjusts the working time of the workers to its needs. In reality, therefore, unpaid overworking and overtime is legalised on a permanent basis. It is thus established in this way of the great trick. It baptizes overtime overtime, therefore pays it much less and thus substantially reduces wages. In other words, it baptizes fish meat, or rather, in terms of fishing, the hammer pears. And the worker is paid in pearls while the employer wins in hammers. Very simple and very efficient concept of political economy and the market economy. Time is impeccable. For cases where working time will be adjusted, as noted by the Ministry of Labour, we are increasing the permitted overtime, etc., as we have said with the Secretary-General. For redundancies in Article 66, it is an invalid complaint, it says by the employer for an indefinite period for a number of reasons. But who considers that the complaint falls within these grounds? Does the worker ultimately bear the heavy burden of proving the reason for denouncing his contract, so does the road to mass redundancies finally open? The possibility of re-appointment is also annulled if it is justified by the courts. I shall conclude, Mr President, with Articles 93, 94 and 95. It suffocates the right to strike. I don't have time to analyze. The inspection of work is supposedly established as an independent authority, but it is an institution, as it is created, which aims to consolidate the service of conservative choices, as has been seen so far with the EIA. With this anti-government bill, the Mitsotakis Government implements its plan for the future, namely the conversion of Greece into a country of cheap and flexible labour, without regulation, rules, control mechanisms and social rights. It applies a heated and failed neoliberal recipe that is in discord with efforts by other countries in Europe seeking fewer working hours, with no wage reductions but also in America that, due to the pandemic crisis, go ahead with expansionary economic policies in support of the real economy of workers, wages and demand, as well as the social state as a whole. It is certain that this bill sooner or later will end up in the dump of history.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u314	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Ploris, now has the floor. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u315	Ladies and gentlemen, by hearing many times this morning the position of colleagues on the left I really believe that they have been put, even if there was any doubt that this bill will not be passed, we believe that the Minister who brings it is doing so well and we are voting on it. Because at the moment there is virtually no argument to develop on the basis of the provisions of the draft law as it stands. And basically what is often transferred to society is a completely different picture as if we were going to discuss another bill. We will of course start from what you do not want to repeat because you do not like what is done by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Let's go see what the employee gets with the first chapters of the bill. Do you disagree on the part that now clearly develops the heads of violence and harassment within the workplace in such a way that we are trying to eliminate all these behaviours and even reach the point where we talk about reversing the burden of proof not in the criminal proceedings but in the procedure that has to do with work, precisely because the victim is in a difficult position to prove what he has suffered? Do you disagree with a number of permits that have to do with the paternity leave of 14 days, paternity leave and maternity leave for six months a grant from the OAED, four days so that children can be supervised, special days when there is a particular problem, seven days for assisted reproduction, leave so that the woman can exercise this right and a number of predictions that come here to help bring about real equality in the labour market? Because what has not been said is that every incentive you see given to the part of the paternity leave arrangement actually helps women not to create a distinct treatment for their recruitment, that they may have more rights than the ones the man will have and thus to choose men for this post. So these are funds coming from a centre-right government and bringing them exactly because they are in favour of the worker. With you there is this problem, gentlemen of the Left. Here's more of your ideological obsession. You read the Constitution with a single article: the right to strike and the right to trade unions. For you there are no other articles in the Constitution. All the other articles must be subject to what some syndicate factions want to do. And you don't see the rights of all workers. So let's go see what we're doing and hear from the society that sees us in the part of the union you're talking about. Do you seriously disagree that when there is a strike in neuro-algal services there will be 33% so that the state can operate and serve the citizen? When the right to strike is exercised is not there the right to move in the city, the right of the other person to be served? Are these rights subject to them? Do you disagree that by means of a digital programme we will see the trade unions in the operating and voting sectors? What are you afraid of? Are you afraid that there will be general meetings as they want small minorities to make the decisions they like? Is it possible to seriously discuss now that there is no right to work? You, where are you defenders of the right to strike? Can a worker not come and disagree with the decisions of a trade union body? Minister, we are at times - as a lawyer - who, if our trade union decides, we are obliged to discipline. Is that not an infringement of the rights of work there? Are there no behaviors of trade union blackmailers and intimidation among people who want to work? And you see the percentages that come when strikes are proclaimed. Last week it was amazing that there was a greater involvement of a strike in the public sector - not actually about this bill - than it was in the private sector. Did you see the numbers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u316	How do you explain that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u317	How do we explain it? In everything that is not controlled in small minorityes, as they operate collectively and exert pressure, the other exercises his right as he wishes. You may, Mr. Xanthopoulou, explain it otherwise, that there may be pressure from the employer who won't leave him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u318	Possibly!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u319	Watch out. You don't go into society, you don't go into shops, you don't talk to employees, you don't talk to society that tells you that what troubles it is that they are trying to have a normal environment in which they work and grow. And no one appreciates the workers you keep pulling out, and their workers turn their backs. And because there is a lot of talk here about what each one represents, what each one represents comes out on the basis of election results. Neither 3% of the Greek Solution or of Mera25, 5% of the KEI, 7% of the KINAL, nor 30% of the SYRIZA is the folk or only the folk class. It's not just these popular classes. People's classes are everywhere. Each of us is represented and voted on. And whoever comes here talking as a trade union to workers does not understand the role he has. We therefore come from the programme which we have announced, and tell the worker that all these arrangements will guarantee him the right to work. And I now come to the issue at issue, with regard to the working time arrangement. Working time arrangement has been. You said 'with what insurance restrictions there was'. I ask you: if the time arrangement means that we do not have eight hours and have paid a day off, did it not apply to the former scheme if it was done under a collective contract of employment? If you believe that regulation is abolishing eight hours and creating a day off, the answer is that it either was done by an operational contract, by an individual contract, or by a collective agreement. When you think that you had more insurance, it means basically you recognize that eight hours are not gone and is not paid off. Unless SYRIZA comes here to tell us that "yes, we were abolishing the eighth and paying the day off, but we had collective agreements". So you see what take news you're reproducing? Once you simply change how to settle and the conditions that exist for the settlement, you cannot say that it is lifted the eighth hour and a person is paid off on the day off. On the other hand, modern society is being given the opportunity - and the Minister has developed it - that, with the worker's very desire to be able to have such a set-aside time, which is not working longer, and if he is working longer, it will be paid for and paid for at a better rate, a proportion of overtime than is paid today. In addition, with the working card, we have the opportunity to monitor all the malfunctions that are present in the labour market at the moment. So we come with a comprehensive bill, with the inspection of labour that is now an independent authority, with the working card we have full monitoring, with the adjustment of working time that is done with the wishes of the worker himself, with the right to work where there are virtually no factions of trade unionists not to let the one who wants to work, work and a number of benefits that are available to both the harassment and the licenses, to present to society, the one that really wants to work, the one that is tired of listening to your outdated speech, that at last it can have a much safer working environment than it was. We are very happy to vote for it and here we shall be in the roll-call vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u320	Thank you. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mrs Stergianis Biziou, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u321	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, in the unchangeable environment of the year that passed us, a year in which the pandemic crisis prevailed, labour relations were influenced, revolted and raised issues to which we might not have focused under other circumstances. A great protagonist of developments was teleworking, which emerged as a necessity due to exceptional and special circumstances, but it finally offered many advantages and resulted in many employees being their number one option. Remote work is a flexible form of work provision that can be easily adapted to the particular circumstances of each individual's lives. It developed and became widely known under these particular circumstances. But eventually, it seems it's a treaty that came to stay. This is because it proved to be the ideal tool to achieve the rich balance between professional and personal life. This balance is required for every person, for each worker comes to deal in a coherent and holistic way with the bill of employment of the Ministry of Labour. The possibility of a worker planning how to work gives him the freedom to take advantage of his time according to his needs, so that he can meet his obligations, professionals, but also those of his personal and family life. It goes without saying that not all workers have the same needs. The life cycle and the obligations of people are different. And those working in a business do not mean that they are at the same time at the same time in their lives. An integral part of flexible work is the right to set up work, a right that we are giving to individual contracts for the first time. Flexible forms of work, whether we are talking about distance work, semi-employment, or about the possibility of working four-hours instead of five-hour hours, there have been a trend long before the pandemic, especially in the technologically developed countries. Recently the Airbnb lease company announced that 11% of the leases were for work nomadics. Flexible working conditions enable the worker to adapt his work to the different phases of his life. The factory type for many jobs is now outdated and does not respond to our modern way of life. In Europe, the majority of workers have access to some flexibility in their work programme. In the lower countries and in Scandinavian, this figure reaches nearly 90%. Indeed, in the Scandinavian countries the range of these choices is very wide, and that explains why these countries keep high levels of women's employment. The possibility of personalising employment, and thus to reconcile working obligations with personal life, has a positive effect on women's increased participation in the labour market. An important factor contributing to the underrepresentation of women in the labour market is precisely this difficulty in balancing working and family obligations. The balance between working and personal life is a challenge for working parents and those responsible for caring for sick or dependent people. The paid paternity leave of 14 days, the parental leave of six months with a two-month grant by the OAED, the protection of the father after the birth of a child, the two-day leave for reasons relating to urgent family reasons are only some of the arrangements of this bill aimed at eliminating the inequalities between the two sexes, bridge the differences between men and women and ensure that the mother can remain in the labour market and after her children have been acquired. In recent days, a great deal of effort has been made to identify flexible work with destabilization and job insecurity. Terrible inaccuracies and slandering about the abolition of the eighth and compensation for overtime work have been heard in this Chamber and the media. Flexibility is not incompatible with stability in the employment relationship. The safety of workers and labour stability are an acquis for the New Democracy. It is a acquis reconfirmed by this bill and protected by the provisions on dismissal and compensation. The world of work, like our world in general, is constantly changing. New forms of work appear, new ways of organising it, largely due to technological and digital developments. Labour reality is today different from that which was fifty years ago, it is different from that which was a year ago. We're adapting to reality. We do not attempt to adapt reality to ideologies that may be even a century ago. Workers don't need patronage and wise guides to point them out. They need a safe working environment, a quality working environment and institutions that operate and meet the real needs of everyday life. All our policies, all our actions have the focus of the worker. The common denominator in all our legislative initiatives was the protection of jobs. Conditions, life, societies change and ask neither governments nor we politicians. In the New Democracy, we have reflexes, sensitivity and will to listen to the wishes of our fellow citizens and to follow the progress they show us. Our people, ladies and gentlemen, say the rasa doesn't make the priest. The progressive parties prove their status by means of acts, not the label in their name. A week ago you voted against teleworking in the public sector, turning your back on the demand for thousands of workers. Now deny workers the right to choose how to work. You don't want workers to have power, because it obviously takes away from the control you want to have on them and it breaks down the myth of the supposedly charity party and reveals your hypocrisy. Workers don't need prostates. Opportunities and choices are needed, exactly what today's bill provides them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u322	Thank you too, Mrs. Biziu, and the consistency in time. We continue with the MP of the Movement of Change, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u323	Thank you, Mr President. Saturday we had a wide-ranging meeting in Rethymno with social actors and the debate brought some important historical events to the heart of our attention. I am obliged today to refer to the precursor of the Progressive Movement, Stavros Callegi, the pioneer of the socialist ideas in Greece, which was of Cretan origin from Brahimo Rethymno. In 1893, he organized the first labour forum in which he spoke and the following resolution: "The purpose of our meeting here is to sign a resolution to be given to Parliament in time. The resolution reads as follows: "Today we met today on the second of May at 17.00" in Ancient Stadion, the undersigned, members of the Central Socialist Association and at the wages of sufferers: First, we voted on Sunday to close the shops throughout the day and the citizens rest. Secondly, workers work eight hours a day. Thirdly, pensions should be granted to those who are sick and who are incapable of maintaining themselves and their family. Fourthly, the Council of the Central Socialist Association to serve the resolution in Parliament." Then, twenty-seven years later, another Cretan, the Eleftherios Venizelos, who founded modern Greece, guaranteed the basic labour rights mentioned in the resolution of 1893. Unfortunately, one century later, two other Cretans, Stavros Kallergis' short-termist, Minister Hatzidakis - five kilometers away is his village - and Prime Minister Mitsotakis welcomes the abolition of the basic working rights that our ancestors have enjoyed from Crete and we now have this negative first. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government tried to distribute the bill with a directive of the European Union and two conventions in ILO, on 190, which we had been asking for a long time to come to Parliament to eliminate violence in the workplace, but it failed to hide its real aim, which is to further weaken the position of the worker by removing basic rights and, above all, to negotiate decently with the support of collective representation. This is the core of the bill. First I want to refresh the memory of our citizens and all of us on two issues: the e-working card and the time arrangement with collective labour contracts that have been flagged by New Democracy, but also by SYRIZA. PASOK, under Article 26 of Law 3996/2011, institutionalizes the working card. New Republic, Mitsotakis and Kostis Hatzidakis, three "no". Steady right and periodically supposedly modernists, as will appear below. 'No' of course SYRIZA also voted. Blindly populist opposition. By Law 3846/2010 and by Law 3986/2011, the "PASOK bad" ensures the settlement of working time with the guarantee of collective representation. The New Democracy voted not in the first and yes to the second law and it is now coming back to its original "no" and legislate the arrangement of working time as an exclusive management right by means of an individual contract. SYRIZA voted not in collective labour agreements in both laws and, of course, today it invokes them. Aims from the New Democracy, populism and extremism from the Civic Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill creates a model of cheap and devalued work contrary to the modern European labour framework and the European Social Charter. For the first time in Greece, in a European country, unpaid work is established. The workers will work ten hours a day, and they will be paid for eight, promisefully. They'll work fifty hours a week, and on Sundays, and they'll be paid for for forty, again with a promise. And, of course, put the well-known coupons on the practices followed. The working conditions are downgrading and the creation of new jobs prevents them from creating a dystopic present and a bleak future that will keep them out of our country. Judicial protection is reduced and workers are now at the mercy of redundancies. Instead of strengthening the APR, which has achieved significant results according to the government itself, rather than strengthening it with inspectors and technical equipment, it is effectively deactivated by converting it not to an independent authority, but to an independent authority, forgive me. In addition, unfair competition is brought about by the unilateral support of larger companies to the detriment of small and very small ones in an even lesser position. All this, however, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, is at the reverse of the needs of today and the post-covid era that will cause labour insecurity and social conflicts. The pandemic that has hit our country, Europe and the whole world, has dramatically highlighted the need to change the development and production model, has also indicated the reintroduction of the social impulse and human being at the heart of policies. This obviously cannot be achieved with the domination of the concepts of conservative forces seeking to relaunch the economy and growth without environmental and social priorities, particularly at the expense of labour and workers, as the bill attempts. Already in our country, despite the consumption of significant sums, of EUR 30 billion without the latest money, the recession is going well. It is 32% higher than Europe's average. There is also a significant increase in poverty, a widening of social inequalities, problems in many economic activities that cannot be reinitiated, mistakes in planning and priorities. Money was given, but they didn't catch that place. That is why in view of the use of the Recovery Fund, the NSRF and other European programmes and national resources, we need a policy change and a management method. But most importantly, there is a need for a change of understanding about the role of work in development, the role of development and the result of development in relation to society. The Change Movement considers that working and wider social peace, full employment with the strengthening of collective bargaining, decent and fair wages are a prerequisite for the success of productive and business plans in general and for achieving growth and progress with social justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u324	We continue with the MP of SYRIZA Mr. Theophilos Blondopoulos. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u325	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating a flagship bill on the country's social and economic life. That is why it is important to make a wider reference to what framework it is part of. Some time ago we amended family law at the initiative of the government in the part of parent and child relations with an amendment that encountered the reaction of counterpopulation and wide social strata, because it changed a child-centered family law to a genocide and showed the conservative concept of the New Democracy, considering the child as a family observer and not as an arbitrary person. This conservative concept is also evident in the area of labour law, which we are now debating and which is primarily related to the constant views and perceptions of the conservative faction, which believes that everything must be offered to the investor and that growth will come regardless of the employment conditions of the workers. So today, Minister, you remind me - because I remember them as a new student at the time - your counterpart, Laskaris, who, with Law 330, declared that the struggle of order is ending. Basically, this thing is trying to bring you into the public debate, and with your bill, you think that a working peace and a work balance are achieved, which does not correspond to the reality, precisely because society is composed of classes, social groups that have conflicting interests, consists of people who are otherwise looking forward to building and building their lives. And this kind of intervention that you are doing is actually releasing the potential of the strong part, which - as we know very well - will be able to crush the weak worker. First of all, there is a very basic parameter that we need to highlight and which concerns us who are legal. For the first time, there is a division of work and wages. We know very well that it is a prerequisite, probably the basis of labour law, that the worker is offering his work, and that the employer must pay him. When work is being extended by two hours, and instead of an additional salary it is being paid off, this is a very serious overthrow, which illuminates and highlights the problematic wording and approach you have in this matter. Secondly, very importantly, you have this liberal idea that the parties are equal, that the employer on the one hand and the worker on the other can freely negotiate the best conditions so that a balance can be found in the opposing interests. Don't you realize that this thing becomes graphic? Say something else. Say that when the employer has the right to do what he wants, it starts the economy machine, we can come to an understanding. Is it possible to suggest to Parliament that both parties come freely, the employer and the worker to find the best solution? Who are you addressing? All of us on the Left and many on the Conservative side - I suppose - have worked, made a dilemma, understood what the opposing interest means and what it means to be one to the one who has the decisive and management right. As far as the strike is concerned. You bring so many conditions that you make it unnecessarily, meaningless, meaningless. What's the strike? The strike - I remind you of us who are legal - actually involves damage. If the strike is not threatened by injury to the employer, it is not a strike. It's a social event, it's a declaration, it's an intention and a perception of different opinions. But it's not a strike. So when you tell me that it will have an important part to do the job as security staff, there will no longer be the core of the strike movement. Why are the collective agreements bothering you? Tell us a sufficient reason why you are opposed and establishing individual contracts. Do you consider them an obstacle? Can every single worker negotiate his contract? The whole tradition of over a century ago, since the end of the last century, where mass claim, collective claim and its sense belong to a wider family, where we all fight together for our interests, is the one that has moved history, is the one that brought this level of quality that we have in Western Europe to which we belong. Investors didn't bring it on their own. We don't see you on the left. Biden said it, the newly elected president. He said this country didn't build the financial fund. It was built by the workers and trade unions who created the middle class. He says it, we don't. And now you bring these provisions and let each worker be exposed to the investment buffalo of his employer? You have a very serious responsibility, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, very serious, because you are dynamising the foundations of a society that must move forward together. You're creating working jungle conditions. Unemployment will increase, because exactly because the minimum right for the worker to apply for cancellation and re-introduction will be sought by exchanging it with a greasy allowance, so that the employer's arbitrariness is stimulated, you highlight it. Mr Minister and you of the majority, you have a great social responsibility and we, as SYRIZA, will never stop saying that. I'm closing up with this. In Drama, which is a conservative area, and in which you have the majority and the hegemony, I would say, we have made a mobilisation with workers, with trade unions, which was relatively successful. Do you know what slogan it dominated? "We say it from Drama and listen to it well. The Hatzidakis Law will be left on paper." Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u326	Mr Yiannis Antoniadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u327	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing the Ministry of Labour's bill on the protection of work and, in general, on changes in labour legislation. Before I go into the bill, in the time I'm allowed, I'd like to make two three points. First of all, we cannot understand this. While from one hundred and twenty-nine articles, the opposition agrees a pool, other than the JRC, to nine, why do all these voices and revolutions exist without cause? Second point. SYRIZA and the Left Party cannot watch a Greece that is changing, which is digitized, which is transformed. I would remind you that it was the New Democracy that, when the conditions imposed it, in the 1970s, it was the state-owned enterprises. You see Olympics, Constantine Karamanlis. It was the New Democracy that, when the conditions imposed it, privatised businesses. You see Hatzidakis, Olympics. New Democracy, as a party of change and innovation, comes today, in a forty-year-old labour legislation virtually unchanged, to implement innovative and positive provisions for workers. Unfortunately, SYRIZA refuses to change. He refuses to accept reality. He's in a fight with her and he's permanently stuck in the past. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, represents a great step for our country. It comes to face up to modern, real problems for workers and especially for women and young people, to restore injustices, to abolish anachronistic regulations, while adapting the framework of labour law to best European practices, by combining the promotion of growth and competitiveness with the protection of workers. Basic structures of the bill, which are worth insisting on and repeating, are the following: The application of the digital card for which has been so long, present and future, dealing with black work and undeclared overtime. The establishment of the Labour Inspectorate as an Independent Administrative Authority. The establishment of new permits for parents and caregivers, such as the 14-day leave for young fathers and the parental leave for both parents by OAS. The possibility of applying the system of adjustment of working time and at the request of the worker. Protection of the social system from strikes to the common benefit of the economy, with the obligation to provide a service of 1/3 normally provided. The possibility of taking measures for transparency in trade unions. The possibility of worker participation in trade union offices, in registers. Moreover, the prohibition of the reopening of a strike found illegal by the judiciary, by the secondary or higher trade union organisation. The introduction of civil liability for trade unions who practice violence or act illegally. Taking preventive, repressive measures to deal with violence and harassment, which is very important. In accordance with the ratification of the Convention 150 of the International Labour Organisation, it is the establishment of the right of disconnection to telework, the establishment of a framework for the protection of trade union rights and, of course, the extension of the protection of workers against void redundancies and the introduction of the possibility of additional compensation instead of re-introduction. That is why more and more things could be said for a long time. I would like to dwell on some of the things that are very important and, of course, to start from the eighth hour on which it has been heard that it has been abolished. As the labour legislation experts say, the eighth is guaranteed in all the countries of the European Union. It is unthinkable that it should be abolished in any country of the European Union, as it could be a matter of not implementing the European Social Charter. This, together with the settlement of working time - where many views have been heard, and among them that it is simply changing the way, as is laid down by the Qualifying Opposition - are modern institutions, younger ones, which exist in Europe and throughout the world and are now being implemented in Greece as well. Here I would like to mention a problem, Mr Minister, among others, in contradictions which also exist in the constant conflict. In Florinna there are too many manufacturing companies that hire seasonal workers. Nowadays, it has bad weather. For example, it rains unstoppable for one week and another week, workers cannot enter. There are processing companies, such as wineries that hire a hundred workers. For 15 days they must be paid without being able to work. A solution must be found without the workers being wronged, but also so that the employer, who has so many employees, cannot afford to bear the costs. It is a difficult equation, and I think the bill is also intervening here, which gives some solutions to it. I also want to focus on the positive digital card, on the strike by trade unionists, as well as on the very positive that our services of general interest, metro, buses, energy, will be able to operate with one third, so that everything is not immobilised and that we have hospitals without power and fellow citizens without movement. Ladies and gentlemen, there would be too much to say. This bill is a big step forward. The government continues its work, faithful to its election commitments to the citizens who trusted it for the rule of the country. Greece now follows the policies of the most advanced European countries, combining the promotion of growth and competitiveness with the protection of workers and employers. That is why I support the bill, I support workers and employers. Here we are looking at it in practice and whatever gaps and weaknesses if there are, all together to correct them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u328	Vice-President of Parliament and Member of the Communist Party of Greece Mr George Lambroulis speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u329	Thank you, Mr President. As long as you are trying, gentlemen of the government, to appear as modern, as the modern thing about what brings your anti-government abortion and the working middle ages, with the overthrows it is going to shape, whatever lies you and your parrots say, which, in a racing and provocative way, all these days, cannot hide or make up the hideous face of the farm system that you serve consistently, but which is not humanized, but only abolished. Because the only freedom for the worker to work as he wants, as cynically propaganda and accepting, is that of the employer who will define the work of the worker as the job of a machine that, when it is damaged, will be replaced. That is why no demand, demand and command of the co-operatives remained outside the draft law that gives them the life of the worker without any limit to the exploitation. Because no aspect of the worker's life remains unaffected, it does not escape the dissolution of all conquests that distinguish workers from slaves. No private or public worker, who have felt on their side too many years in previous years by reducing wages, income, announcing rights, has escaped from this latitude. Everywhere they experience intensification, neutralization, exploitation of land. In fact, your courage and cynicism take off when you refer to young people, students, that is to say, since you consider normal a young person working instead of being dedicated to his studies, or while you turn maternity into rotating employment! Shame and shame. But, apart from your fairy tales, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the bill is for the good of the workers, but also those of the SYRIZA that he is aware of the recipe of guaranteeing workers' rights and at the same time shielding the competitiveness and profitability of capital, the reality is that there is no aspect of capitalist restructuring that is not linked to the deterioration of the health of workers. Because both the staff in Brussels, like all of you, all the parties, are well aware that the workers throughout the European Union, as in Greece, are faced with the negative consequences of the policy of capitalist restructuring that is being promoted. As we all know, eight hours of work, eight hours of rest and eight hours of entertainment were not introduced at random, but they were determined on the basis of scientific criteria which set the time needed to replace the workers' natural and mental forces and that they were imposed on capitalist society with the class struggle of workers. Worktime is thus an important factor in affecting social well-being and balance. The unstable working hours, the adjustment of working time, the alternating shifts, the limited free time make it difficult for the normal social and family life of the worker to increase fatigue, cause great damage to the labour force, the mental and physical skills of the worker who cannot be corrected if at any other time the worker works less hours. For example, intensification of work exposes workers to more risks for longer, and leads, for example, to a reduction in their reflexes, increasing the chances of accidents and occupational diseases. And it is obvious that a worker who has been called to work for a period of ten hours a day cannot do anything other than a job - food - sleep - work, i.e. lives literally to work, reminding of the "speaking tools", as slaves call, since logic is "work where, as the employer, capital, is needed, which means a complete deregulation of the working day. For years, moreover, several studies have correlated with the disruption of circadian rhythms, the so-called biological clock, from alternating hours and night work to breast and prostate cancer. The international organization for cancer research - which is not communists - is not here Mr Maraveyas - has classed the rolling hours that disturb these rates, the biological clock to understand, in the category of possible carcinogens for humans, along with substances such as lead, some chlorinated hydrocarbons and others. Like the fact that the rhythms of these have been associated with premature delivery, lipobarous infants, but also with an increased incidence of digestive ulcers, coronary artery disease, metabolic disorders, sleep disorders and more. You know them, you know them very well, especially the doctors of the majority, but not just the other parties. Unstable hours and overtime cause fatigue both by limiting rest periods between shifts and as a result of professional stress. From this point of view, they are linked to the occupational depopulation syndrome, the so-called 'burn-out'. And you know that especially for doctors, as far as health care is concerned, in hospitals. As also the increased working hours and overtime respectively are linked to increased rates of occupational accidents and the risk of accidents rising by about 15% on the ten-hour shifts and by 28%, close to 30%, I would say, on the 12-hour shifts. You know that as well as we all know it. Does the international literature not mention Carossi syndrome concerning deaths or serious cardiovascular disability associated with many hours of work? At the same time, the burden of the human organism from overtime work, beyond fatigue and the resulting increase in the probability of an accident at work, has a cumulative effect on human health, it is associated again with blood hypertension, cardiovascular diseases, metabolic diseases and it goes by saying. A characteristic example in this direction, health care workers in public hospitals, both before the pandemic, but especially during the pandemic, with enormous shortages in staff, intensification of work, were forced into more on-calls, more nights, more frequent shifts, even more volatile and irregular hours, i.e. even greater burden on biological patterns and a burden on their health with tragic results in some cases. Even this so-called 'opt-out' clause provided for in the law of the SYRIZA Government to settle the working time of doctors is linked to the health burden, since the clause and the voluntary prolongation of the working week up to an average of sixty hours is legally provided for in the law of the exercise of employers' management of immunity and terrorism. And they are all those to whom this arrangement of working time will be applied, which you were hypocritically applauding, when you did not send them MMs because they were coming out and claiming protection measures, staff recruitment, logistical infrastructure to meet the needs of our population in the midst of pandemic and not only. Therefore, combining the constant elasticity of relationships and working hours with supposedly protecting health and safety at work, the so-called ideology of euphoria, is not only an up-to-date scientific one, but takes features of conscious propaganda, a conscious effort to hide the realities, the health and life risks of workers accompanying the elasticisation of work. A practice common among the political forces and parties which defend the interests of employers, the industrialists of the bourgeoisie that is even unscientific, unethical when it is carried out by health scientists. So, no matter how hard you work on the contrary, if we put science on the head upwards, there is a clear scientific basis and documentation on the contribution to the protection of the health and safety of workers, on the reduction of daily and weekly working hours, respectively, of the retirement age limits in all professions, and much more on heavy and unhealthy. Because the confrontation of New Democracy and SYRIZA on whether the worker will get rid of himself after collective or individual negotiation, is not about the needs of the working class. Both parties along with the Change Movement have brought dozens of elastic forms of work from one hour to one day a month. You have a heavy responsibility to make the uninsured work and the thousands of accidents at work large. All together you have created with your political armies of unemployed, part-time, young champions and young people who have never known what to mean with rights. This is because none of you, all the parties, like no government, disputes the framework of capitalist development, so it cannot relieve the workers, the people of their suffering. The only hope for the workers is for the organization and the collective class struggle to enjoy what our season can give, namely the reduction of working time to seven hours a day and thirty-five per week, a wage that meets the modern needs of the family, enjoying the possibilities of real free-time scientific and technological progress. This is the modern, realistic and necessary, today, in the twenty-first century and not the return to the nineteenth century.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u330	Mr Vassiliou, President-in-Office of the Council. — (IT) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u331	Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, whether or not people like it or not, the current government dares to deal with the problems of the country, problems that most people admit exist, but which no one dared to touch or could not make a difference. If nothing else, this bill is another proof that the New Democracy is trying to respond to real and topical problems, such as those of work, which are also encountered with family and personal life. Is undeclared and undeclared work not a problem? Is it not a problem when intervention is being attempted to fall into softly by some who have violated labour legislation or when a small minority of organised interests is illegal and refuses to serve the basic needs of society? Is it not a problem when labour reality stands in the way of family creation or when the individual is being treated in the workplace that offends his dignity and freedom? Or is it not a problem to abuse telework that came to the surface after the lockdown in the previous months? Of course, all these are problems and it is a New Democracy government that is called neoliberal and conservative to deal with them with advanced interventions, which lend the experience of European states, others with a tradition in the welfare state and others with left-wing and centre-left governments, which best protect workers and give them the choice that they too are given to businesses more flexibility so that they can stand up to international competition, develop themselves in order to create jobs. This government removes from some the monopoly of charity and social sensitivity. That is what bothers, ladies and gentlemen, that there is a government that goes out to some on the left, that goes into fields that, until recently, some people considered theirs. That's why they react in the only way they know, fleeing backwards, pulling out pretexts ready for each use, protecting established interests and privileges that have even cost society and the country and the worst, twisting the positions of their political opponents and disinforming citizens. This deliberate confusion and misinformation, ladies and gentlemen, has been revealed to the committees. Citizens have the right to know what will, in fact, apply rather than what some are spreading in order to justify unjustified. The reality is, then, that there is no eight-hour abolition. Just forty hours of working week can be shared differently over the days, which in large businesses and sectors such as tourism has been applying for years. The reality is that, when individual agreements are provided for with the employer, they can only be made at the employee's initiative. The reality is, therefore, that the weekend is paid in full, as in full it is planned to pay overtime rather than, of course, exchange overnight. It is simply increasing the overtime ceiling so that an undertaking can respond to the seasonality of demand for products or services, so that the employee can boost his income. The reality is that we are the third country in Europe to bring measures to protect those who work at home with the right to disconnect. As it is true that with the Labour Inspectorate becoming an independent administrative authority, the constitutional provision that the right to work is protected by the State is not violated. Because the independent authorities are administrative bodies that are part of the state. It is also a fact that, in order to make it compulsory, the digital working card to check undeclared unpaid and unpaid work is finally applied and paid as a worker for the overtime he has worked. These are only some of the forecasts that improve the position of workers, improve choices and improve their protection. Ladies and gentlemen, I have referred to points which, unfortunately, have entered under the distorting lens of party feasibility. However, it would be unfair not to refer so much to the whole of the bill with which I believe and hope that most if not all parties have to agree. And on these issues is a New Democracy government that comes to make a difference. These are the ones concerning the balance between work and family from the introduction and extension of a series of parental leave and the protection of parents against dismissal, up to flexible arrangements for parents and caregivers close to people with serious health problems, but also the part to tackle the violence and harassment whose arrangements embrace up to and including activities with greater occupational insecurity and limited protection where women are usually employed. After that, ladies and gentlemen, one would expect those who are cut off for the protection of workers, women, the most vulnerable groups of the population, those who are cut off to protect fundamental personal and social rights and the well-being of many, to support the arrangements that are being implemented with known and difficult problems rather than costing behind slogans of another era, behind a narrow party clientele that has long stopped expressing the largest and most dynamic part of our society. Unfortunately for them, the masks fell. It will also be seen in Wednesday's roll-call vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u332	Please prepare the Step in order for SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Nikos Friends to speak. Mr. Philly, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u333	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, coming out of the pandemic, free from fear, we are looking for a life of life that is not respected. Two different concepts of development conflict. One is aggressive capitalist conception, the neoliberal one, which, after the pandemic, is also an anachronism, dangerous anachronism. We have experienced the collapse of health systems internationally because of prolonged budgetary austerity. We have lived through the results of the violation of nature and the climate crisis, and now you are proposing growth that is more compressing the already low labour costs and increasing the profits of capital. But development is necessary not as a quantitative measure - growth is now being said - but as a quality for many, in favour of the environment, in favour of democracy and in favour of social cohesion. This is our concept of human development rather than the financial system and economy of the platform. All over the world, the debate on the crucial role of the public sector and related social safeguards has returned. Here the Mitsotakis Government insists on the dogmatism of market theology. It even uses the new language, the new speak in Orwell, which distorts the concept of words. When you speak, gentlemen, about reform, you mean deregulation. When you talk about freedom, you mean exclusion. When you talk about investment, you mean predators. When you talk about a right to strike, you mean his undermining. When you talk about a strike that does not cost the employer, that is, no strike. When you're talking about unionism, you mean the workers. When you are soberly talking about workers today, you are slandering the trade union workers to defend their rights at high cost. You are talking about independent authorities and you mean ruthless partyisation or subjecting the employer to sensitive control mechanisms. And, of course, when you talk about flexibility in working hours, you mean the dissolution of the daily lives of workers. Our alternative model of growth is based on the knowledge economy, i.e. jobs that will produce value added products. The knowledge economy presupposes educated labour. We need university education, because, in Europe, the goal is in 2030 for young people up to thirty-four years of age who will be graduated to more than 40%. The Government promotes the restructuring of the capitalist system in an aggressive manner, shrinks the public education system, dismantles labour relations, creates the conditions for precarious jobs, low qualifications and cheap pay. It transforms teleworking into a teleworking industry, i.e. even greater discrimination and inequality. And, however, technology increases productivity and provides the opportunity for people to work less, without reducing their earnings, so that everyone can live well and work. It would be no exaggeration to say that the new law on admission to universities is the other side of the knife that slaughters the generation of pandemic. Twenty-five thousand children, no matter how well they write - and we hope they write well - today and tomorrow will stay outside universities. You understand, gentlemen of the New Democracy, what did you vote for? You will be contacted by those who stay outside to ask why. They'll turn into customers for private colleges. The wishes of the Prime Minister and Mrs Kyrameo for good success in children are being heard ironically. Remember now that all the importers' positions will be met, seventy-seven thousand fourteen, as has been the case for so many years. At a time when hundreds of old jobs disappear, only the greatest education can ensure professional flexibility, confidence, better pay. The statistics have shown that low-education citizens are getting poorer. What Brain Drain can be handled with precarious jobs, poorly paid and without elementary safeguards of collective and working rights? Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen, we amazed to hear about the fertility conference, which had, in fact, the aegis of the Presidency of the Republic with speakers from many ministers and a pool of hierarchy. On the contrary, I expected to hear something from the Church about the abolition of Sunday holiday. That's why I didn't hear a word. However, after the massive outcry to the misogynical message of this conference, we were told that the conference was postponed without the two ministers of the government to withdraw their participation. Inside, then, is the New Democracy and the Government at the conference. You sell protection to women, supposedly, in words with the bill, when you are taking the lead in such misogynist initiatives? The conference, of course, takes place in here with the government's sponsorships. What new father, what new mother in the tenth job will he be able to take the child from school? How easy is it for a woman to give birth to the weight of unemployment or exhaustive hour spasms? Ask a girl who works in a supermarket. What family condolence can there be with father or mother out of work over-exploitation? What parent can exist when he is invisible to society and work? Without a strong social state, without guarantees for the work and daily life of new couples, ultimately without security, it is hypocritical to discuss the existing demographic problem. Ladies and gentlemen, I said that the battle for education is the other side of the fight for labour and eight hours. Young people perceived it when they were mobilized a few months ago against the government's authoritarianism that wanted to incriminate them for the pandemic. Now the government wants to convince us that for the illness, for work, for education, that is to say, for what social priorities for our lives, individual responsibility is first and foremost, and not collective political will. Yesterday, with the strikes, it became the first step. Society demands a future with a safeguarded work, health, education and culture. Will the parties to the progressive party with the left be able to respond to the longing of society and especially of young people to halt the frustration that leads to political removal? The necessary reflection and detachment is needed from the results of the Memorandum of Conduct. Now that the world page can return after the painful pandemic experience, it is necessary to formulate alternatives, new public policies, a realistic left radicalism without slogans, with suggestions and struggles. We need to respect the popular dynamics and contribute together to its political representation. This is the responsibility of those who oppose the government's efforts to rebuild the system with the victims of many. Civilians are failing, and even worse they are harming themselves. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u334	Thank you too, Mr Philly, for he was very time-consuming too. It's just over in seven minutes. I call for all colleagues to follow it, or we will be in the morning. We continue with our colleague from the New Democracy, Mr Dionysios Apipe. Here you go, Mr. Akuppi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u335	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill the New Democracy Government has been seeking to substantially modernise Labour Law, which has been the same for many decades now. Through this new framework, we give more opportunities, choices and opportunities to the worker, strengthening and strengthening his position, so that he can cope better with the challenges of the modern competitive and extremely demanding working environment. At the same time, the new draft law adapts national labour legislation to modern conditions and best practices, which have already been in place for decades in Europe. I now come to the post-Collection officer's attitude, which, of course, does not surprise us at all. It's the same attitude that SYRIZA has kept in every critical bill. It is the same attitude that SYRIZA has been holding since June 2019, before the elections, which he officially lost. Since then you have come out and said "Mitsotakis has been abolishing the eighth" and other such goddess of the Left. Then, of course, the Greek citizens turned your back and New Democracy won the elections at 40%. This was not enough to understand that all your efforts to regenerate the 2015 climate by exercising a conflict policy of the Ocas are not enough to convince the Greek people that you are a serious political party, with a serious proposal and a serious attitude towards things. And if the elections didn't teach you that, didn't you learn anything from Thursday's supposedly great strike mobilisation? In the banks, participation was between 2% and 4%. The same was in supermarkets, air transport, PPC, TEDDEE, OTE, ELTA, everywhere the same. So this is the mobilization, in which you of the SYRIZA bet, in order to get the opportunity to get your various galleys and so on. Of course, as we all understood, you just didn't get the beans out of you. You need to get it over with that society has got the message. As much as you're trying to get out front as supporters of the weak, you won't make it. However, let's see how this government has been abolishing the eighth hour, as you have been doing for months in the newspaper windows. Article 55, therefore, for anyone who knows an elementary reading, not only does not abolish, but guarantees once again the eighth. After all, whatever government can take over the wheel of the country, eight hours cannot change it to the extent that our country is a member of the European Union. What is being done through the provisions of this draft law is that the worker is given the new opportunity to compact his work in fewer days. This will obviously be possible only at the request of the worker himself, while in any event safeguarding the inviolability of a maximum of five working days or forty hours in the week guaranteed by the bill. With regard to overtime through the digital card, "black" work is effectively fought, while real work is recorded and it is ensured that overtime is controlled and paid for as a whole. This, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation, won't you vote for? Will you not vote on the heavy sanctions introduced in the event of employers' arbitrages, thereby ensuring accurate recording and thus compensation for all workers for all the overtime they are going to do? Won't you vote on increasing parental and other special leave for each worker in order to cover both mothers and fathers or relatives with health problems? Will you not vote for the increased protection of the new father from any dismissal and limit the anti-motorisation of women, tighten up the framework for redundancies, widen the range of protection from redundancies for many employers' abuses, lay down rules for the transparent functioning of trade union organisations, so that decisions are not taken by organisations - seals, a significant extension of the scope of banned behaviour, adding violence to the workplace, so that they do not adequately cover the workers and the introduction of an autonomous provision to protect against sexual harassment and violence? Aren't you going to vote for these? So what is this tragic, so catastrophic bill that brings about and for which the Democrat Opposition and, of course, all the Left parties in the last few days, if not in the last few months, are breaking your clothes? In particular there in SYRIZA you are resorting to an extreme, unfounded and, above all, dishonest opposition, forgetting that unlike the rest of the Left parties, you have ruled this country, forgetting the suffering that your own government has brought to workers and businesses. What really prevented you from doing things as you wanted them? Did you do anything? What did you do? If we come back to the past and see in 2010 in Article 7 with the signature of your pretentious officials today at SYRIZA, I think that precisely, Minister, we have probably made Article 7 on the point of the issue that is the adjustment of working time. Today are we not making fun of saying that something new is being introduced, while the working time arrangement has been introduced since 2010? During SYRIZA governance, enterprises, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, the backbone of the economy, put behind, leaving hundreds of thousands of people on the road and without any working right at all. Then, of course, SYRIZA didn't talk. Well, first of all, you're shutting down operations, tearing down the middle class. I'm not talking about it. Your Member is calling it your former Minister. Then you come here and you talk about galleys, rollers and other picturesque chips to the inner-party consumption. Ladies and gentlemen, the desperation of counterpopulation leads it once again to spasmist movements, which expose it to the eyes even of these few supporters who have left. So we, with the majority of the Greek people next to us, move forward on a modern European road. Opposition can stay with the doctrines, posters, slogans and chips of the past. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u336	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time, Mr Cape. I would ask that the Step be prepared to give the floor to the Member of the New Democracy, Anna Karamanlis. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u337	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2018 the House as a whole, but also the entire Greek society, understood the national issue of the demographic crisis that is in danger, as described in the report of the intergroup parliamentary committee on demographics that was almost unanimously accepted. Former Prime Minister Tsipras himself in his speech to the House in March 2019 acknowledged that the demographic problem is a matter of overall strategy. It is a consequence of the way in which we choose to organise our society and that the way in which we vision growth and social formation, the structure of the economy, the insurance system, all the crucial issues of the public sphere, is also a single response to the great problem of demographics. So here you are, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. The single answer is here. The draft law we are debating is the courageous response to the great challenge of tackling the demographic crisis. We all confess that demographic ageing does not occur without any subsequent result. The percentage reduction in the population in productive ages and the disproportionate increase in the proportion of elderly people put our national status at immediate risk. An analysis of the fertility of generations shows that disparity between Greek women does not seem to be a conscious choice, as is the case in other developed countries, such as Germany or Japan. On the other hand, it is the result of situations and conditions imposed by the wider social and economic environment and makes it difficult to decide on childbirth, which has been dramatically aggravated by the recent 12-year crisis and, of course, the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. All over Europe, policies on fertility and family support are classified into three axes, social and economic active protection of families, family and working life harmonisation, parental support and a positive environment for family life. That's the only way to go and that's what we're going to do. I would like to make it clear that we are not part of the public dialogue that emphasises the return to older family and social standards, a return that, apart from unwanted ones, is impracticable. The aim of the Mitsotakis government's family policy is not to encourage childbirth, but rather to promote women's access to the labour market and to promote gender equality. With this bill, we offer women and men the opportunity to choose freely when they will have children and how they want to raise them, as is happening throughout the advanced world. For our Government, it is obvious that both parents can both work and take care of their children together. At the same time, all children, especially during their very early age, have the right to quality care from their parents. So I ask your SYRIZA colleagues: will you deprive your families of their paternity leave of fourteen days and parental leave for two months for both parents paid by OAED? Will you deprive by your vote of the possibility of flexible working arrangements up to twelve years in order to raise and protect their children as they wish or have a chance? Will you deprive your fathers of the right to ban the dismissal for six months from the birth of each child? Will you deprive your vote of your license for five days a year for our fellow citizens who protect dependent parents and brothers from them? Will you deprive any mother and father of the right to disconnect and close the computer by the end of the working hours and to devote the rest of the day unrestrictedly, qualitatively and without anxiety to himself, his partner, his partner and his children? Will you deprive every worker and employee of the right to be measured through the digital card every hour and every minute he devotes himself to work and to be paid for all his working time without feeling the exploitation of "black" work? Or will your blind opposition be deprived of the right of every woman and every man who suffers moral harassment in the world of work to denounce, protect and work without fear? You're pretending to stand up for yourself, because I'm absolutely sure you're envious. You are appalled because it is not you who are taking these initiatives, because the years you have governed have consecrated us at the bottom of Europe, in the indicators of equality, and in order to show your opposition to chew and re-chew the candy of the time arrangement and the supposed abolition of the eight-hour. We are legislating on provisions already in existence in most European Union countries, such as Spain and Portugal, where your comrades are ruling on the left. You say that the fight for young people is intergenerational solidarity and modern social contract, and at the same time deny the arrangements that we introduce for young people, but also for older people who are working as a deliver or courier, who are for the first time treated as normal workers and who acquire rights according to those of workers with dependent labour contracts, which for the first time the collaborative digital platforms are obliged to provide care, health and safety, that women and men who have served us with their quarantine machine as long as no one else ceases to be invisible. They have a professional entity, they finally acquire trade union rights and they can establish organisations, negotiate and draw up collective agreements as well as strike. Ladies and gentlemen, before I close my position and on the occasion of the debate and the ratification of the 190 Convention, I want to make something clear. In the pandemic women and men we morally strengthened. Great women and men spoke evidently and loudly about their nightmares, made them manifest and exiled. We created with love and truth a clean and healthy mass movement, the Greek "Me Too". Let's not infect it with small amounts. I am referring to the movement by specific sites and users of the social media of false news that the monitoring committee of the Criminal Code, appointed by the Minister of Justice, recommends the removal of the concept of consent from the criminal definition of rape and its conversion to the exercise of violence. It is unfair to a government which has taken over the encouragement of uncovering sexual crimes because it allegedly abolishes non-consensuality, when new arrangements are defined in detail, and in particular all behaviours that can hamper the crime of rape, even providing for the misleading distance of consent. Stop playing with the nightmares and the agony of women and men who are ready to be freed, because no matter how much you try to convince that our government has no clear intentions, you will be misguided. As far as the fertility conference is concerned, the spot reported by the first conference was inappropriate, inappropriate and ineffective. I believe that they have responded, as we respond, Mr Friend, all the Members of all the parties when calling on us to present our views at an event. What does the organisational committee have to do with the Ministers? Absolutely nothing. And finally let us make it clear that all political decisions in this country are taken by the government and no one else. And the current government has shown its will to change everything in the matter of gender equality, the protection and strengthening of women, but also the protection of families. Everything else is just a fuss to cover weaknesses. For us the life and dignity of every worker and every woman and man and every citizen are at the heart of our decisions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u338	The speaker of the New Democracy, Dimitris Vartzopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u339	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, it is indeed an innovative bill that has been needed for some time and which introduces into Greek law that there is more modern internationally. It ratifys the ILO Convention on the Protection of Health and Safety at Work, and even provides for the establishment of a national programme which will come from collective negotiations between the social partners. It adopts all measures taken by the ILO to tackle violence and harassment at the workplace, including compulsory labour regulations and collective agreements. It incorporates the European directive on the balancing of private and professional life, and even to the extreme extent of the measures envisaged. Characteristics of innovation: parental leave of 14 days, two months of parental leave of both parents to be paid by the OAED, the favourable arrangements for both parents up to the age of 12, the leave of five days of care, the prohibition of dismissal of the father for six months after birth of each child. Aside from all these, the cancellation of the anti-motors between the sexes and therefore the substantial upgrading of the role of women in the workplace. But above all, the bill introduces radical innovations. The most important thing is the introduction of a new digital working card, which in real time records all the elements of real work and transmits them automatically to the upgraded "ERGANI II" for registration and control. The big bet on this is, of course, universal application. It is important for this application to be initiated by sectors of high infraction. It is very important to protect teleworking, to protect decoupling from teleworking, and to protect all workers on digital platforms. It is very important that the compensation for dismissal between workers and employees should be equalised. This institutional equivalence is the catalyst of upgrading the technical activity. It is what will lead to a shift towards vocational education and change the productive example, the productive model of the country. It is very essential to introduce the new electronic register of trade unions. The transparency it imposes prevents both electoral manipulations and union seals. Equally important is transparency in employers' organisations, because this also ensures the signing and extension of sectoral and similar collective agreements. It is very important to introduce a new job inspection. Personally, I am not a friend and a fan of independent authorities. I prefer and appreciate the special secretariats. I must say, however, that the excellence of the organogram and competences are absolutely convincing. We all need to realise, ladies and gentlemen, that this new Labour Inspectorate is the key to the safe implementation of all the radical innovations provided for in this bill. It is very important to increase legal overtime, and indeed their equation between industry and services, because it also harmonises the hundred-hour wall with the European average. I would ask, Minister, for future use, that we take a look at the IAEA's proposal to exempt these overtime pay. It is, of course, a measure which has a budgetary footprint, which can solve without burdening the enterprise and essentially helps increase the income of the workers. It is very important that working time should be adjusted individually and with a proposal from the worker himself. It has been a measure that has been in force for thirty years. At the same time, however, it is necessary to facilitate both personal and family flexibility, freedom and well-being. It goes without saying that the convention of these individual contracts where there is no union or where there is no provision in sectoral or operational contracts. But where there is a disagreement between the employer and the union, the conclusion of these individual contracts poses a number of risks. If, Minister, you consider that this provision should be maintained, it is appropriate to bear in mind in mind at second time the adoption of a ministerial decision which, in each case, will provide for detailed checks and leave of the competent labour inspectorate. Direct and special legislation, legislation for the first time in the history of the country, the cancellation of redundancies relating to the exercise of a legitimate right, is very important. In this case, the cases which fall within this category are very widening and even reverse the burden of proof which the employer now bears. It is right that the worker should be given the opportunity to request in these cases the increased compensation instead of the re-entry. However, the possibilities of the employer, even where they are not related to the exercise of a legitimate right, may require the court to make compensation instead of re-entry, also entail certain risks. The right to remain exclusively with the worker or, in any case, to allow the court to judge at will. If that is not possible, Minister, in a second year, it would be possible for the Labour Inspector to take a statistical view of the consequences of this provision so that we may have the possibility of future corrective action. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a pragmatic demonstration of the fact that the New Democracy is the only folk party, the only folk party that is far away from the excesses of neoliberal deregulation and socialist overregulation in a unique way serves middle-class, business and work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u340	We are also grateful to Mr Varzopoulou and to him for the consistency in time. The floor will now be taken by the Member of the Change Movement, Mrs Constantina Giannakopoulou. And then for you to know, because there were some reconversions, Mr Alexandros Auslonitis is followed by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Maria Konnaka from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Miltiadis Chrysomalis from New Democracy and Mr Socrates Vardakis from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. And so is the fifth cycle completed. Then we'll enter the sixth and seventh. Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u341	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the working law currently in force is essentially the law passed by the PASOK Government in 1982. This is a rare event in terms of the strength of a law based on Greek experience, something which shows the innovative and innovative character of that regulation at that time. However, it has been almost forty years since. There have been shocking changes in production and work. The Internet, teleworking, platforms, big changes that come fast because of the fourth industrial revolution and robotics already bring overturns. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] There is therefore a need for changes in the existing framework that will be seen before, which will face the challenges of the future, but of course also the already open problems that exist. All of this added to the further acceleration of developments due to the pandemic and the changes that have taken place. At the same time, the major burden on workers' precariousness has been borne by the coronary crisis. Society and workers have been in front of a very difficult period since more than six hundred thousand workers have been suspended by only the special allowance of EUR 534. Also, within this period when we are slowly entering a normality - if we can say so - the income of workers has suffered significant reductions which, for a large proportion, have been over 60% of the wages before the crisis. All this leads to an even greater fear of redundancies, to increase unemployment, since many businesses have either not opened up or some of those who have managed to open unfortunately find it difficult to get through. The main debate, therefore, within this whole context that has been formed, is the search for solutions with a look always in the future. The labour bill and the dialogue on this mainly concerns the regulation of issues relating to the protection of rights and the improvement of the working conditions of wage earners, but unfortunately in no case, Minister, can meet the requirements of the upcoming changes. When all the relevant studies agree, ladies and gentlemen, by 2030 there will only be 15% -20% of jobs with the same object as they currently have and that each employee will change three or four times the specificity of working life, one realizes that we need to adopt a different concept and make a new overall design. Indeed, Minister, it is necessary to design not only for work but also for the education system as a whole as well as for the public and private programmes of continuing training and guidance. The issue, therefore, is not whether there is a need for changes but what changes. The work bill presented as a major reform is not characterised by its future look. Technological changes may result in job losses worldwide of up to 20% -30% according to studies. So why, Minister, I wonder, does the dialogue not open up for a reduction in working hours, for example, but with wage stabilization? This will be the great challenge for the future. One could mention many more examples. The Minister invokes the positive arrangements contained in the bill. Indeed, certain arrangements are positive. Who could negatively see that the OAED will cover parental leave for two months, for father and mother and for the introduction of paternity leave. Who can say that the measures to ratify the Convention 190 are negative for measures on violence and harassment at workplaces? The same applies to provisions governing the trade union rights of those who work as a deliver and courier and arrangements to cover health and safety issues by businesses, provisions on teleworking and on the right to disconnect and of course the provision on digital work card, which the PASOK Government first introduced in 2010. It was then a consistent request for GFCM to be applied globally. Are these regulations, however, the centrals which give the tone to the bill? Of course not. And I am sorry, because this is a lost opportunity. The bill is mainly characterised by the absence of any prediction of undeclared work, a huge gangra or even child labour linked to school leakage. It is characterized by facilitating redundancies without any real cause within a critical period in the post-Koronian period, where thousands of businesses and hundreds of jobs are in incredible precariousness. That is the reality, Minister. It is characterized by the deregulation of the labour market by making thousands of workers hostage to the employer, in a country where small businesses and individual contracts are a huge proportion of the total. Is there really - and I wonder, Minister - an illustrious person who can believe that an essential worker can negotiate on an equal footing with his employer on working hours, on issues of flexibility, on overtime issues, on how he is paid? Because whoever really believes, then he's probably influenced by metaphysics. So let's say it clearly. With this draft law, there will be market deregulation, there will be an intensity of arbitraryness by employers, there will be a risk of depletion of unemployment, even if there is an increase in growth. There'll be condoms far more inequality. Does that mean, ladies and gentlemen, that we should not see the changes to be made and resort to ostrichism? Oh, no. But at last, Minister, let us seriously consult this country so that we can reach through an enlarged social agreement on a new modern, progressive, fair and fair framework of work. I close with a report that I read and noted in an article recently that the initiative in Chicago will continue to symbolize the revolutionary for the time of the eight-hour work. Today, ladies and gentlemen, workers need a new digital Chicago to claim participation and to ensure their rights to the modern labour market. Human knowledge and skills are capital, ladies and gentlemen, in the era of the fourth industrial revolution. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u342	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. Good evening and good week from me. Let me remind you that today we will end with Mr Miltiadis Hatzigiannakis. The reason is Corfu Alexander Aylonite by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u343	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today coming from Corfu and driving my car, I followed the speech of the Minister - I hope that these will be transferred to him - and I cannot say that I was saddened by the ironic and arrogant way of saying that he was speaking to the Members of the opposition. It calls for the award of one of the first ironic and arrogant MPs of the Greek Parliament. I wish that he would not be hated as Minister of Labour for the workers. I wish that from the heart. Let the Minister remember that with this bill, which will become a law, as you say, he will write in black letters his course. In addition, the Minister considers that all of us, but also the working class as a whole, are foolish and we eat unrelentingly what is supposed to be confusing and splendid, he says with a lot of wisdom and intelligence. I will explain: To make his covetous, he wraps it up with some important positive regulations, i.e. hammy and man-mades, as if he were talking to idiots or natives of the Amazon, whom I am passing away, I have much more preoccupied than the policy being pursued here today. As the workers in Greece do not know that you are demolishing what they themselves have shaped over the years and will let it fall apart as they sleep in the law. That is my personal view, and I am absolutely certain that it is my party's view. Even those who applaud the side of the Minister of Labour today will be emptied at some point when the times are coming. So let the Minister do the dirty work he has been assigned to and sleep in peace that the people will thank him. The whole morning speech was an obvious effort to gold the wrapping - as I said before - of a lousy piece of legislation that gets part of life - literally when I say it - by the workers, who after so many years of memorial and pandemic hurt as human and as families. Pain, Mr. Ministers, and you're fooling them unconsciously. You are mistaken if you think that with the parental leave you give to the dads you will take them back in 1920, when the eight hours were set up in Greece to industrial workers and so much rights were gained by Eleftherios Venizelos. Sleep in the sleep of the law, if you think that by the assimilation of workers with employees they will be abolished by trade union freedoms and individual freedoms. You offend the heart of labour rights and baptize your bill as a progressive adaptation to the existing in Europe. You underestimate opposition parties, saying that we are backwards and you call yourself - I mean it - the archangels of development and progress and the only friends of the working class. From you the revolution started in Russia as I understand it. You participated in Chicago. I have the impression that you and Andypa are on the Larissa grounds. Honestly, I'm thinking that political sport! They will feed the bones of the ancestors, those who fought to win the eighth and all these working conquests. They're trembling their bones with what I see today. Mr. Ministers, outside the House, they have been conquested with blood as much as you do with this bill. You're tearing down the Labour Law we knew and rejoiced, you're ironing, and you're dragging us down. You hit the core of Labour Law in Greece. I've been serving as a lawyer for years as the Labour Law. We need to read again, go back to school and college. Good for you! I'm told you'll abolish the class struggle. Be sure to do so, like the late Laskaris, if I remember well mentioned by my colleague, Mrs Marilissa Xinoyanakopoulou this morning. It was a wonderful speech, and I must stress it very much. I heard her very carefully. Basically, he has struck with arguments absolutely every detail of the bill that we are discussing today. The labour bill is at its base, in substance and in its soul a bill of counter-reformist, anti-government and anti-linguistic. This bill calls on the workers to apply it, while they should be relieved, to relieve their needs and not to discipline what the market and international order dictate. You, really, whose orders are you carrying out? The people will answer. It comes at a break with the social majority, and that is why it will clash in a hard way with it. Remember it where we talk about it and talk about it. You saw it in the big demonstrations that took place last week, which will prove what it is in practice. You're passing them out. 8%, 3.5%, 7%. But you don't know what the world's pulling for the payroll. Even a civil servant with 70 euros, 50 euros, is now thinking about them and fearing them. You're afraid of him with this bill at all levels. And the Greek people, the working people, will be disobedient, will listen to you being swayed against labour rights, collective freedoms and conquests. For SYRIZA, it is the cause of the mother of the battles. You're getting the phrase and you're going to find it in front of you. She is a mother of fights for the left and progressive forces of this place. Here it is a great responsibility for all of us, for all parties on this side to join in a struggle, to face up to this situation, because we all know the problems that the trade union movement has, so as to face up to this attack. Mr President, I see that I do not have time - although I have a lot to say - so I will finish with two examples, so to make it clear what is happening with this bill, since I tell everyone to read the bill themselves and not to listen to the speaker or to anyone, but to read the bill themselves and they will see that what we are saying here is true on paper. Example of the first in tourism: Kamarira in a hotel, married, full-time with a two-year pre-service, according to the collective contract of employment, would take EUR 1,008 per month. If there was no sectoral contract of employment, its salary would be 715 euros. That's what we'll have in a while. For example, in a restaurant with ten employees and a workload: the owner is taking advantage of the possibility of employing overtime workers will create three unemployment jobs. You will see soon how we pass what we say - thirty-five to forty thousand workers, said Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulou this morning - will go home. With these thoughts, having exceeded time, I tell Mr Hatzidakis that he is attacking the working class. Not only are we going to sign the condemnation of popular labour, but we will organise and support the popular resistance of workers in our respective countries. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u344	Thank you, Mr. Alonite. Mrs Maria Konnaka has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u345	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, at the end of the day, the workers proved to be very banners. You are offering them progress, you are giving them a discharge from the fixed day-to-day bunkers, you are giving them the opportunity to work for a ten-hour period, and they are paid for it by way of a day off or to work as thirteen hours a day with cheaper overtime, to work a little longer and the sick, as we have recently been enlightened by a emphatically emphatically emphatised New Democracy MP. You caught the thread from SYRIZA's benefactory to hospital doctors, but also the commercial workers who made them work thirty-two Sundays a year. Have you heard that, Mr. Skourlet? And you extended this progress to dozens of other branches, completely abolishing Sunday holidays, because you reminded us this morning if we have heard the various things. And despite so much progress, the workers went out to the streets by the thousands, formed a guerrilla strike river on Thursday. That is why, because they do not understand any progress, we propose to punish them, to throw your progress into the trash and to impose them the anachronism they are asking for, to vote seven hours, five hours, and thirty-five hours, that is to say, a reduction in working time with an increase in their earnings, as the huge technological progress, the fourth industrial revolution, allows. Repeat, make collective agreements compulsory. This is law, this regression, this "removal", as you call it, Mr. Rapporteur of the Majority, cannot hide the irritation and hatred that is feeding on the indisciplined class movement. Because they're going to do it again, they're going to give you a new strike response tomorrow on the 16th, the day of the bill, overcoming those who are trying to turn the gutter into a weak stream. Following the government and the well-known "patients", the GSC's sold-out followers. Others have caught up with them in the five-sided haste seem to implement the admonition of SYRIZA and the Movement of Change toward workers not to invest in the strikes, but to the next government savior that will abolish both these measures by a law and an article, unless the recurring of the state prevents them again. We've heard a lot of revealing these days. But one question that none of you dared to answer is coming back stubbornly. If, as you repeat, others obviously through the slope, the strikes have eaten their breads, if they are ineffective, then why are you fighting them with such hatred? If this is an outdated collective struggle for the workers, why are you persecuting him at every opportunity? In fact, in the interests of modernization, you ask for the electronic file of unions, all over the time of its members, the practices of the general assemblies, what has each member voted on and all this at the disposal of the state and of the employer? Perhaps, then, we do not need to protect trade unions from dismissal, because it is so modernised freckles that there is no hope of being hired by businesses at all. Why are you still struggling to stand up to an "soft weapon" as you call the strike? Why are you trying to turn it into a symbolic act at best? Why is what other than a symbolic act when in all public enterprises, public utility, OTA, etc., other than security personnel, a minimum of 1/3 of the service provided? Of course, today's subsistence conditions will probably work more on the day of the strike than those who work on the day-to-day, that is, when you are not a nail to the quality of social services, otherwise, enjoyed by the people. However, in limiting the strike right you also found the road from SYRIZA with the notorious Ahchioglu law that laid down a precondition for the lawfulness of the strike by 50% plus one of the cash-in-law union members. In order to strengthen, we were told, democracy in the unions. What if such a majority is not required to be legal and the government of the country is not required to elect a regional director or mayor who receive an absolute majority of 43%, not the registered ones, but those who decide to vote each time? However, you are asking for it as a prerequisite for proclamation of the strike. The one who ate her breads is your hypocrisy and, unfortunately, yours, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, who you have remembered today the progressive alliances and the debt of popular resistance. And the New Democracy is coming today to take off this democracy, making electronic remote electronic voting compulsory. So we ask you: How is the secrecy and even the identity of what the worker is voting for when he is forced to vote 'no' on the strike under the eye, not to say the hand of the boss himself, the staff managers, as are the workers taking a wheelchair to vote for their electors in the employers' unions? Or do you hear that for the first time? Much more so since the essence of the union assembly is discussion, exchanges of thought, confrontation about the demands, the form of struggle to be chosen by the workers. It's not a "like" and "dislike" as a reality candidate. This possibility of workers talking, organizing collectively trembling, is why you are drugizing the whole of trade union activity. While, with the already legislative obstacles, 90% of the strikes are now found to be illegal or abusive, you are actually enacting the preventive ban on the strike by secondary and tertiary trade unions if the decision of the primary union is unlawful. Really, where and where? Based on the bourgeois constitution, your own constitution has been supposed to be imaginative when a decision for formal reasons is illegal can ultimately lead to the total ban on exercising the right, even if the secondary body follows the formal procedure. You still have to confess to your intentions in Article 93 - this joy of the provocator! - illegal the strike with the provision of objective civil responsibility for the administration of the union to compensate the employer when psychological violence can be baptized, even the exile of the association outside the workplace on the day of the strike. I do not want to mention the various vulgarities mentioned by the Minister this morning. It is impressive in these cases your sensitivity to the right to work. But you are forgetting it when even in the case of illegal dismissal, which is now being spit on by the workers for their judicial recognition, you are abolishing the obligation to re-entry and pay late payments for all the time that has elapsed until the judicial decision comes out. In other words, you are abolishing all the anti-pollution measures for arbitrary redundancies and presenting them as a conquest for integration - you say - of the Dads in this perforated but protective framework. I mean, it's finally got its limits! The arrangements of the bill are ultimately the official confession of your fear. They are the greatest assumption of the strength that the collectively organized struggle gives workers. Their strength, however much they are not yet exploiting it, is understood by the workers. And be sure they will not accept their modern slavery. And then yes, your fear will become a nightmare, because they will not only send to the trash your county but also the system that gives birth and will make the exploitation of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u346	We should go to the beautiful Messinia, Mr. Miltiades Chrysopolis of the New Democracy, who is too early in the middle and wait patiently. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u347	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I have been listening for a long time to hear from opposition MPs in the telepaths and not just that there is a bill from the Ministry of Labour, which will bring the working middle ages, will make the working slave. We waited to see the bill. We've been waiting to see what's going on. They started saying things. We read the provisions, read them again, read them again, and really wonder. What are the provisions that bother you? What is it that bothers you and you're trying to create a dome for this bill? In fact, in most of these provisions you agree, and you know that. I heard before Mr. Aylonite just before I went to Stepa to show up Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou's speech, what amazing, what nice it was! Mr. Aylonite, I would tell you to refer to a corresponding speech by Mrs. Xinoyannakopoulou in 2010 as Minister of State responsible for co-responsibility with Mr. Ragosi also now to SYRIZA and Mrs Katselis also to SYRIZA, who brought these provisions entitled 'Procedure for the adjustment of working time' at the time. That is the talk, and that is what is happening now. We are modulating and improving these provisions. You've been fronting the eighth. We're looking at where the eighth is removed. Can it ever be abolished eight hours? It's a fundamental right. It will neither be abolished nor, of course, overruled. It is worth wondering why he chose the whole of the Opposition to turn so completely against a regulation that does not circumvent it, but gives the worker the right, if he has a say and a need, solely on his own, to negotiate his working time in order to improve his life, which has been in existence for thirty years. What's bothering you, the individual arrangement? Obviously that's not bothering you. And obviously that's not your problem. But to finish the myths too, say how the eighth, this Robert Owen dream of universal application of the idea “eight hours of work, eight hours of recreation and eight hours of rest.” When did the eighth get dynamic and was it introduced? Who established it? I've got some bad news for you. If you look back, you will see that the first one who established in all his factories in the eighth hour is what you would call the spearhead of capitalism - the capitalist colossus of the automotive Ford industry in 1914. And everyone else saw the performance of the eighth in the automotive industry, and it came in 1919 and became a universal application. So don't tell myths and stories, because bad employers, as you call them, first they established the eight hours, obviously, both for the benefit of the worker and for the benefit of the company. Because that's the right mix. What other provisions bother you? Are you really disturbed by the regulations on the digital working card or the transformation of the APRC, which are both in a direction that is not only the protection of the worker but also the facilitation of entrepreneurship? And here I would like - and I am sure - the Ministry will immediately serve the APRC and equip it with modern digital means so that it is ready to monitor the area of work and prevent abuse by employers to those who think they are going to move out of law. I would also like the Ministry - and I would like to stress this - to positively see the proposal made by the Scientific Council of Parliament on the individual agreement so that it is automatically included in the 'ERGAN' system in order to make it known to the AAR and the relevant institutions and thereby ensure that it is complied with without delay. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to be honest with each other, neither the individual agreement on working time is in fact your problem, nor, of course, the increase in legal overtime on the European average, nor the number of other provisions relating to licences, protection against redundancies, health, safety and protection of workers from violence and harassment. Obviously, the eighth hour is not abolished, or collective agreements are being circumvented, and nothing else is dark and evil will happen in the world of wage labour. None of this finds you opposing. But there is something against you and you do not dare to say it loudly, you dare not say it out loudly because you know that society is against you in this regard. Society's on our side. What's the problem with this bill, so we can be honest? This bill makes an intervention to the gains of trade union power from which you themselves are feeding and supporting to serve not the interests of the workers but your small-party army. That's the truth. And the government dares, after the 1982 Act, to come and improve and bring about such arrangements. Obviously, I understand that. You have a problem with the arrangements that ensure the impatient democratic process for a strike decision. Obviously you prefer not to take advantage of electronic voting and to vote on all members of the club. You obviously prefer unions - seals. You prefer the non-electronic club register, you prefer the absolute immunity of trade unionists, you prefer the abusive strike by circumventing even judicial decisions. That's your big problem. Because your aim is not to express all workers through their constitutional right. Your goal is to use the unions and the strike to exercise micropolitical control over the government and revolutionary gymnastics in your party army. That's the point. Your right, but it's over. And the workers know all this and they know it. We, ladies and gentlemen, have one single objective, to ensure workers' rights at work, to guarantee workers' rights to strike, to ensure workers' rights for a decent and modern environment of equal opportunities. If you wanted to tremble and make a criticism of Kostis Hatzidakis, the Minister, you could simply say to him - which is true - that it actually applies what Michael Bakunin said, that is, improves working conditions, renders what is due to it and thus renders it to people safety, comfort and recreation. Because that's the truth about this bill. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aiming to stop the hostage of citizens, the hostage of society by strike movements that have not been decided by an absolute majority, by strikes that have been judged illegal and abusive by justice, and yet they have been made because they have found umbrellas in secondary and tertiary unions. That's true. Because the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is not a hostage to the workers. He works only in the interests of society as a whole. We have proved that and the Greek people know that. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, think seriously about what you will choose on Wednesday night with the roll-call vote. Will you choose the interest of workers and society or the interests of the workers? We are stable and unbelievably always with the worker and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u348	Thank you, Mr. Golden. Let's go to Heraklion, Mr. Socrates Vardakis from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u349	Thank you, Mr President. From tomorrow, I guess the workers must sew - sit down, Mr Brutsi, listen to them - deeper and larger pockets! Have you ever heard, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, of the Hatzigorgians, Pergialis? They're dead to the union movement. They are the ones who have been sacrificed to preserve what you are today abolishing. And I say this to be very careful, much more careful when from this Step you talk about the union and the labour movement. And I don't recognize it with today, no relationship. Minister - Mr Hatzidakis is missing - note. Article 120 of the bankruptcy code - yours - says: 'The employee is not entitled to compensation if the company goes bankrupt'. You know that? Apparently not. Thirty-eight drivers were fired two months ago on tourist buses, without compensation, with thirty and thirty-three years of service. Do you know that? Apparently not. The Higher Labour Council has delivered an opinion on the mandatoryity of contracts in tourism. Why didn't you make her mandatory? Why haven't you declared it compulsory?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u350	I signed tonight.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u351	Did you sign it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u352	You've got news!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u353	Something, of course, that the bad SYRIZA had done after five, six years. You're even ignoring the high board. Do you know that you voted in favour of this - you do not know for sure - an increase in age limits, by decision 1512, 13 October in Luxembourg? Do you know that, Minister? I am referring to 13 October 2020. Refer to the law of the European Union. You abolished the right reason for dismissal. You know that? Oh, no. A legal person who is entitled to void dismissal will no longer be entitled by the employer to write him in the oldest shoes. You obviously know that. If you have your God! Why do quarry companies have to work on Sundays, Minister? You know that there deadly accidents at work are the rule. Now listen to this. Drivers' overtime will be declared after 15 days. Listen to bills. So after the employers' cooking...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u354	What cooking?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u355	...and take the day off for the olives. Mr. Hatzidakis, the fox can't be 100 years old and the 100-two fox. Bring the two sanctions, the incorporation of a directive, bring the e-card. Withdraw all the other provisions, and here we are talking. Do not threaten us for roll-call votes. We have been through this before, and we are positive, you know that very well - our rapporteur said that - as regards sanctions and the incorporation of the directive, that is, the veil of the core of the bill, which is obviously not that. The core of the bill, ladies and gentlemen, is a multi-faceted attack on workers, working hours, wages, rights, collective bargaining, trade union expression and action. It abolishes the eighth hour, as well as the individual contracts it establishes, imposes 10 hours' work, without additional remuneration, but with payment on the day-to-day day. It doubles cheap overtime, catalyses collective agreements and leads to uncontrolled redundancies. It continues to dismantle the control mechanisms and encourage infringement in the labour market. There is an unprecedented attack on the liberties of trade unions and, in fact, it abolishes the right to strike. What no right-wing government did, Minister, does, in other words the Mitsotakis Government "hand" to 1264, double an annual overtime limit to fifty. Tell me, Minister, this. One and a half million unemployed are now approaching. Where will they find a job with the increase in overtime, cheap overtime? Mr Aylonite told you the example - I will not repeat it - with the maid. It receives 1,008 euros with the collective agreement of the hotel staff members valid until 31/12-2022, 751 euros without a collective contract of employment. This is the individual contract, Minister. What don't you understand? Can you tell us what strike will take place with 33% security personnel? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, you are not only unrelated to what is happening on the labour market, but you are also dangerous to the world of work. Fifteen and a half of the fifteen minutes of his speaking time, your rapporteur found nothing essential for the bill. She was involved in the thesis of Ms. Ahchioglu. You've been advertising her, Mr. Rapporteur. That's never happened before. You can tell me, of course, what to say and what to support? It is now unequivocal that the bills you pay out are many, bills that mortgage the future of an entire generation, but also the present one of a people who led him to bankruptcy between 2010 and 2014, and now you want to give him the gift shot. Here is worth noting the answer Mr. Mitsotakis gave to the small journalists, the day before yesterday, when he was asked what took him off more than his clothes. Like they knew the kids! The one who repeats the same mistakes, you said, Mr. Mitsotakis. Obviously no one cares, Prime Minister, how many times you go out of your clothes with yourself. What concerns the Greek people, however, is that your repeated mistakes lead to huge deadlocks. In its position, our rapporteur, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, analyzed an article and documented the unconstitutionality of almost all the bill. Let me just turn to Article 22(1) of the Constitution, which clearly states the direct responsibility of the State for protecting the right to work. And you're making the APRC, the Labour Inspectorate, that is, squeeze and abolishing democracy and the Constitution. How powerful are these interests, the bills you pay, which even run counter to the will of the Greek people? Mr. Mitsotakis, I confess you are wrongly accused of at least eight hours. You had your views in both 2018 and 2019. You were outdated and outdated in the eighth hour and you came today to do so. Today, of course, you are trying to convince us that by the individual contract tomorrow, the strong worker will impose on the powerless employer I want. And one last. Because propaganda and misinformation are elements of your daily life, I remind you of 4488/17, 4554/18, 4611/19. It was three bills that I had the honour of introducing in terms of government SYRIZA. They were the three bills that restored the lost dignity of Greek and Greek workers. Did they have any omissions, did they have any mistakes? Yeah. But we've put a little bit of a liquor to bring that dignity back. Today with the bill you repeat exactly the same mistakes you made in 2010-2014 and created - and you delivered us - social ruins. We won't let you. The Greek people will not allow you to turn him back a hundred years. We will not allow you to guarantee barbarism, slavery, indulgence to a people who have been tested and tested by your unbalanced, unrealistic policies. Whatever you vote on today, tomorrow, Wednesday not only will not be implemented, but will be abolished by the next government, which will be the government of Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u356	Thank you very much. The sixth cycle of speakers will be opened by Ms Maria - Alexandra Heads from Ioannina and New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u357	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I begin with a given that I believe we all agree universally and regardless of party origin in this Chamber: the workplace is very important and affects the lives of all of us. In an ever-changing society, however, particularly in the last time we are experiencing intense and unprecedented changes, the workplace and industrial relations could not remain unaffected. The need, therefore, to respond to issues of modern times relating to the functioning of business relations and workers is not only a real one but a necessary one. That's why the next two days, even the vote of the bill, bring us all before our responsibilities. The concepts of progress and maintenance are, in fact, redefined and citizens assess, compare and judge. Why can a person be considered progressive when he sticks to antiquated labour legislation forty years that has been overcome by developments? It doesn't have to be an expert to realize that conditions, social, labour, economic and technological conditions, these years have created completely new data and new needs. As a modern state, we are called upon to respond to the needs of today and to do what the working world expects for tomorrow, to combat black and reported work, unpaid overtime and the exploitation of workers, and to close the leakage of resources from the insurance system and the state funds, to strike violence and sexual harassment at the workplace. It is no coincidence that the negative voices for the bill are not distributed to society but to your party offices, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Stop poisoning society. You're negative protagonists. You are constantly undermining the great effort made by the country to leave the pandemic behind and to return to developmental orbit with levers for businesses and workers in them, the happy workers in them. By lying and making news you try to make the white black for a bill that looks tomorrow and sets solid foundations for improving competitiveness and creating new jobs. With this draft law, we are introducing arrangements for the protection of labour and the updating of individual labour law and the legislative safeguarding of new forms, such as teleworking and digital platforms. We are modernising collective labour law by introducing digital tools to register and operate trade unions. We are ensuring with the new regime the overtime and the digital recording of real work that they will be controlled and paid for as a whole. The digital working card and the heavy sanctions in the case of employers' arbitrariness ensure accurate recording and therefore compensation for all workers for all the overtime they will make. This is a pioneering tool for controlling undeclared and undeclared work. It will record real-time overtime overtime, overtime and overtime, reflecting claims for extra pay by the worker and penalties for the employer. We amplify the framework for redundancies. We are widening the protection gap from redundancies for many abusive employers' behaviours. We harmonize national law with these new regulations with those in force in most European countries. We are establishing the right of disconnection at work, the right of the worker not to respond to calls and messages from the employer beyond the agreed working hours, thereby protecting his family and personal life. We allow the worker to settle the time of his work. The worker only on his own request, and upon written agreement with the employer, may work at an hour of his choice for family, educational or other reasons. The worker can thus, if he so wishes, obtain a four-day weekly work corresponding to five days of paid employment. We are broadening the list of cases of void dismissal, which means returning the worker to work and paying his salaries for the whole period until re-entry. We are thus practically protecting workers. We are widening the scope of the permits that the worker can claim. The introduction of corresponding permits and rights for the new father will result in no discrimination between motherhood and accompanying licences not being an incentive for the recruitment of women and their stay at work. A paternity leave shall thus be valid for the first time. By extending both the leave for nine weeks after birth and the special maternity leave for six months in the adoption of a child, we support the institution of the family and we establish the most modern form of employment, the teleworking that will be implemented after the agreement of employers and workers. We stress the self-evident. It is not abolished and the eighth is not undermined. Instead, we shield both eight hours and hours a week. We are able to adjust the working time of the worker and regulate his working hours on the basis of his needs. We help businesses organise their operation, as required by the needs of the time. However, we are always putting workers first because without their consent they will not be able to change any work programme. Modernising labour law is another important reform that will adapt the labour market to modern European economic and technological data. Human resources management is the alpha and the omega for the survival and development of a business. We define the framework for improving this management. Efficient worker is the safe worker, who feels that the company respects itself, its rights and its freedoms and in turn is a productive worker. The reality is that there are two conflicting worlds here today: the one who wants the worker oppressed, insecure and instrument of their party pursuits and, on the other hand, the one who looks at the future, which recognises problems and with modern practices, gives the necessary solutions. It is difficult for the named Left to accept that this government defends the rights of workers. But the crisis happily belongs to the Greek people, who, for two years now, supported the reforms of the Government of Nea Democrat Republic and Kyriak Mitsotakis and welcomed all efforts at social and economic progress, despite the objectively difficult circumstances due to the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u358	Thank you, Mrs Heads, for keeping time. As always, ma'am. We will remain in New Democracy and Mr. Georgios Amanatidis from Kosani. Since some changes have been made, Mr.Ioannis Andrianos will follow and then we will go to Mrs.Garas and Mrs.Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u359	Mr President, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law protects, let me say, work and adapts to modern social needs and to the major technological advances that affect it. Therefore, the provisions which are already part of Union law and which are implemented by other European countries are being incorporated and updated. The aim of the draft law is twofold, on the one hand, to strengthen social cohesion by means of measures to protect workers - and, on the other, to emphasise - the strengthening of the country's competitiveness which leads together to attracting investment and creating new jobs. The question is why the Opposition refuses any provision in the bill. Why is she obligated? In fact, in the last few days, the quality of public dialogue has been degenerated and political confrontation has unfortunately resulted in designations rather than creative proposals. The draft law - you all know - was termed anti-democratic, anti-democratic, anti-constitutional,'structural' and so on. But we have not heard any different proposals. However, if anyone does it and sees the products, the results of the consultation, he will find that in eight hundred opinions that have been formulated, most of them agree with the regulations, they do find them positive, and many proposals have been very productive and have been taken into account. In other words, opposition is jeopardising and destroying, let me say. Society, however, appears to be a good thing in the effort made by the government, calls for the application of legality and better conditions for employment and the protection of the eighth hour which is not only abolished, but will be effectively applied by using the digital working card. Yes, ladies and gentlemen, we do not grant and I do not grant anyone the right to feel that it has the sole prerogative of representation and protection of the interests of the workers alone. The regulations are therefore necessary. In particular, I would like to say that Greece is becoming one of the first world countries to ratify the ILO Convention 190 on the elimination of violence and harassment in the environment. Even on this issue, which should be unanimous, there have been reactions. I guess they had to have a reaction. Incorporating also Directive 1158/2019 establishing a paternity leave of 14 days with remuneration for the child's birth. Does anyone disagree? Parental leave of two months shall be introduced to each parent and indeed to a grant of the OAED. Does anyone disagree? Work facilities are introduced to harmonize family and working life harmoniously. Does anyone disagree? So because negative comments have been heard, let me say that this directive has not been negotiated by the present but by the previous government. On the other hand, the present Government where there was the possibility made adjustments to the best. For example, while the text speaks of paternity leave for at least ten days, we are proposing fourteen days. While it says that the facilities are provided for children up to eight years old, the bill provides for twelve years. So I come to Article 55 on overtime, to which the Opposition focused mainly on its criticism. The eighth hour, it has been said by colleagues, is an institution guaranteed. In the perimeter of the eighth, there are two institutions, overtime and settlement. Opposition says, deliberately, overtime will be paid off. Big mistake, and it's not the only one. It is predicted that, while we now have ninety-six hours for overtime in industry and a hundred and twenty for overtime in services, they become fifty and only with the agreement of the workers. As far as the arrangement is concerned, it applies to Greece thirty years. It has been applied to very large companies and has been applicable to tourism since 2013. The overall working time of the worker is the same and not more. There can be no contradiction in this. The reward is the same. The difference is that the worker has the potential to better reconcile personal and professional life. Why deprive him of that possibility? The Minister said many examples during committee meetings and I will not say anything about it. SYRIZA responds strongly at the moment that similar issues have been adopted in the past, such as the settlement to the hotel sector. Isn't that bilingual? They use 2015 phrasebook and tactics. But the civilians got hurt and learned. While strengthening flexible work, they now appear to be defenders of the opposite. This arrangement therefore enables the worker to concentrate his work on less than a few days only at the request of him, I repeat. Article 74 provides for the use of a digital working card. The digital working card is a real revolution, let me say, on the labour market and a guarantee that the working hours will be implemented that overtime will be paid for that there will be the right to disconnect and that competition between similar businesses will be protected. It is a very useful tool and perhaps the most useful to control black or implied work. Does anyone disagree? For the electronic working card, let me say that I have personal experience. I have been applying it for 15 years now as Director General in the Development of Western Macedonia, and I can safely say that it was the most important tool to ensure in practice a process that could not be disputed by anyone, with which one counts, and ultimately that it is a tool with which you can capture justice and give justice to an institution. I therefore wonder why there are reactions since the GATT agrees with this. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like some more time. Now, as far as the trade unions are concerned. If you look at the arrangements - and I will not analyse them for a short time - which are provided for the trade union sector, it may be easier to explain why the trade unions are leading the way in the various moves that are taking place. In other words, rights are streamlined and rules are finally in place. The services of 33% of the services offered by the body cannot be used through a single course and a protest to public utility services. It is being abolished - and I do not think anyone is questioning this need - the possibility of financing trade unions from businesses, from the ECO and from the parties, since independence and funding are not going to go hand in hand. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President, thank you for the time you have given me, the provisions of this draft law reflect a progressive concept and philosophy that incorporates modern economic, social and technological developments in the labour market. This draft law serves two objectives: firstly, the protection of workers who are at the centre and, secondly, the strengthening of the competitiveness of the economy, which is a prerequisite for growth and job creation, but also for income and for the possibility of achieving a social policy for the benefit of the citizens. I am therefore voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u360	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. We will remain in the New Democracy. Mr. Ioannis Andrianos from Argolida has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u361	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a draft law which regulates the working environment in a fair, modern and effective way at a time that could not be more appropriate to this. The extraordinary pandemic treaty caused considerable problems as our fellow citizens lost their jobs or were forced to drastically limit their work. It has, however, demonstrated challenges and possibilities, such as distance work, which in many cases proved not only to be an effective but also a sustainable and desirable alternative, even after the end of the pandemic. The need for more flexibility so that workers and employers can co-decide on the framework which serves them the most, but also on a better balance between working and family life, has now been presented to us in the most emphatic way. As also, the need for a clearer and more effective institutional protection of workers against both black and undeclared work and harassment at the workplace became clear. In this respect, the draft law regulates issues that were to date governed by provisions adopted decades ago which concerned a social and economic structure very different from the current one. The aim of the bill is, therefore, twofold: on the one hand, to strengthen the competitiveness and productivity of the Greek economy by adapting the legal framework to the best European practices, on the other, to strengthen social cohesion with measures that substantially strengthen the choices available for workers and employers, which protect workers against arbitrary and illegality, and which respond to existing problems and social needs. I mention the introduction of the digital working card, a valuable tool to combat 'black' work, undeclared overtime and avoidance which institutionally enshrines the right to disconnect the worker and significantly facilitates the adjustment of working time without abuse. I am referring to the upgrading of the Labour Inspectorate to an Independent Authority that shields this overpriced institution from political intervention, strengthening both the effectiveness of its intervention and accountability to citizens and social partners. I am referring to the introduction of new permits, many of which relate to the care of children and family members, and to the promotion of the possibility of teleworking and flexibility in working hours, reforms that substantially strengthen the balance of working and family life. Here too, we must emphasise the need to support new couples as a society so that they can create a family. During the last decade of the economic crisis many young people were forced to put their plans and their dreams back. We must therefore cover this lost ground today, guaranteeing many good jobs for Greek women and Greeks, but also a regulatory framework that allows for a happy family life with decent family income, with a strong safety net, with quality education and health services, with a state that respects taxpayers' money and operates as a man and not as a man. I am also referring to measures against violence and harassment at work, an issue that we should see as a society with sensitivity, seriousness and effectiveness by making clear rules ensuring a healthy and creative working environment for every worker and worker. I am referring to the rationalisation of the framework for trade unionism that ensures democratic legitimacy, effective labour claim, as well as the shielding of practices that distort and undermine the trade union movement, such as the financing of trade unions by employers. I am referring to the very important forecasts for strengthening the rights of workers in dellivers and couriers, but also on digital platforms, workers of a lower god so far only because the legislation had not predicted the development of labour reality. Finally, I would like to mention the equilibrium of the redundancy payments, which have so far been calculated in a few quarters with those of officials who have been equal to the equivalent of up to 12 months, a year and persistent injustice that is now being corrected. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating today succeeds in balancing two seemingly incompatible objectives: to substantially strengthen the productivity and competitiveness of our national economy and, at the same time, to substantially strengthen the position of workers. And I actually say, because unlike much of the Anti-Population, we in the New Democracy see these objectives not only as compatible with each other, but also as necessary and complementary. There cannot be a healthy, productive, competitive economy unless it ensures for the people who support it, namely workers and workers, safety conditions, creation, propulsion and equality. At the same time, there can be no conditions of safety, creation, proliferation and equality for workers and workers in a country unless there is a productive and competitive economy. So this composition attempts and succeeds in this bill. This composition is being attempted and achieved day after day with the policy implemented by the current Government of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u362	Thank you, Mr Adriane, and respect for the time. As always, you're in. We're going up to the Acronym of Evros, Mrs. Anastasia Gara from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u363	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to wish from the heart of this Step good success to the students and students who give their own nice but difficult struggle these days through the pan-Hellenic exams, a race surrounded by deprivations, difficulties, from battles, but also dreams, dreams for their scientific field, as well as for their professional future. This struggle is accompanied, however, by the government's aggressive policy with the deterioration of public universities, the closure of schools and the exclusion of thousands of students from higher education. It is, of course, accompanied by a shocking statement from the Minister of Education, Mr Syrigos, who said that students who will not go to the HEIs because of the minimum import base, which he legislates, are those who are not worthy to attend a university. Unfortunately, this is the anti-social, anti-educational conception of the New Democracy, which they call excellence and hide the service of private interests behind. It is a concept that restores its logic, however hard it may sound in 2021, a concept that degrades the educational role of the university, but it also denies the ability of young people to train, improve, evolve, follow the science and profession they love. But it is also a concept, which also serves the neoliberal doctrine of flexible, unskilled and cheap work without rights. So today's bill comes to validate this anachronistic concept. It is a bill that comes to legitimise, impose as normal the immunity that exists today in the labour sector, which takes us away from the European acquis and, if you so request, because no European developed country has such anti-corruption provisions as we are today, provisions which make the exploitation of the worker normal, the unpaid overtime work, the increase in working time, the part-time work in line with the wishes of the employer concerned, the reduction of wages, the increase in unemployment, the lifting of collective defence and the representation of workers. Is that your vision? Is that your offer to the young people, to the workers? Is this the development you promise, which you call on, which you repeat every day on the windows, but also from this Step and, in fact, at a time of crisis, a period of high unemployment, deindustrialisation, insecurity, health risk? Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is the crown of the extreme attack by the New Democracy on the whole world of work, on the whole of society. And it is so crystal clear that this attack, which comes as a roller to the interests and needs of the middle people's family, is dissolving social cohesion as well. Remove eight hours with the imposition of ten-hour work with a reduction in wages, as workers will be paid over a six-month period and not whenever they themselves choose it, but whenever the employer chooses it. This will, in fact, dissuade new recruitment and sharply increase unemployment in the coming years. Overtime is also doubled. Basically you legalize undeclared overtime with less pay. Wage cuts, of course, will also mean an automatic reduction in pensions, a problem with funds and changes in marriage and three years. For the first time, legislate for parttime workers. The consequences can be seen by everyone. In other words, someone for a little bit of euros in the morning, a little at night, a little bit in the afternoon, whenever he's invited, whenever his employer wishes. The dignity of the worker goes for a walk and you, gentlemen, ladies of the New Democracy, baptize it "freedom", baptize it "sharing" and, indeed, baptize it "sharing in family life". You are also taking uncontrolled misappropriation, as an alternative to the employee's compulsory re-entry is envisaged, while the right to strike is restricted and trade union action is targeted. You see that there is no protection for the worker, that there is no room for reaction, no room for claim, no room for defending people who are made redundant. At the same time, trying, as you say, to support, strengthen the family, the free time of workers, but also to increase the family moments and activities, what are you doing? Legislative the abolition of the Sunday holiday for thousands of workers. Is that the reinforcement and defence of the family? I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, which society you live in. What interests do you serve? Who do you associate with? Have you spoken to workers and workers, in particular, in the private sector? Are you in a ring or are you lying consciously, presenting the exploitation and undoing of workers as a benefit to their everyday lives? You lead society to a new Armageddon. Large losers of these measures and your disastrous policy are mainly young people and young people, workers, scientists, working mothers, but also small and medium-sized enterprises that will be seriously affected by the reduction in wages and consumption. You were told by the competent bodies representing local markets, small businesses. It will accept production, economy, labour, local markets, intensification of the demographic problem, and a generation, particularly of young people, will be forced again to emigrate abroad. Your neoliberal conservative ideas will leave social debris in our country and have the signature of Mr. Mitsotakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Government in very difficult conditions has managed to reduce unemployment by ten units, with too many pressures, in a suffocating context, to raise the minimum wage by 11%, to abolish the underpaid wage, to upgrade the APRC and the checks in which you put tombstones because you do not want to have control and defence of workers. He managed to extend dozens of sectoral contracts, while taking strict measures to keep hours and pay overtime, which led to the reduction of unpaid and "black" work, measures that restored dignity at work. The Government of New Democracy abolishes the protection of the first home, closes public services, universities, schools, privatises and sells everything, plans to privatise the ESS and the insurance funds, impoverishes and leaves society unprotected, and with today's bill legalises immunity to work, deregulations the economy and production, closes the eye to the employer's exploitation. Ladies and gentlemen, whatever extremities the Members of the New Democracy call for, such as the statements by Mr Kyranakis, which you have not condemned, has not been ashamed to use even patients or cancerous people to justify this anti-Fraud excret that you are legislating, to be sure that citizens will not allow this law, nor your anti-Fraud policies to be implemented. They will not allow our country to go backwards. Mr. Hatzidakis, I wonder if it's time for you to know how they gather the olives, because you'll need it soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u364	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Mrs Alexopoulou has the floor from New Democracy and the beautiful Achaia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u365	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin my speech before I begin to say, from this step forward, that they may be the most tired and those who have had the most difficulty with this pandemic, the children who have today begun their pandemics and their families. Psychologically, it took particular strength to reach this first battle that may sound cliché, but it's only the first battle. No one goes missing. I think the way to the dream begins today and I wish everyone good luck. I'm forty-two years old and I've been working since I was eighteen in a branch that's traditionally called a man. I do not agree with that, but it is, in general, a difficult sector, the one with technical projects. And as a worker and as an employer, it is the first time that I feel that a draft law has been drawn up that has been in contact with reality, which handles issues in a modern way, which gives realistic solutions to real problems. We all know very well that the working environment needs immediate and deep reform. So in order to believe and defend the view that there is currently a secure eight-hour and paid overtime and that is why we do not need to change anything, or have never worked in his life, or it has been completely cut off from reality. I do not know what you have, however, or have read a different bill or live in another country, otherwise it does not explain the extent of the misinformation, the descriptions and the irresponsible arguments you have in order to vote against it. It's like having a contest about who's gonna tell the most resounding lie and the most degrading characterization. You have in front of you a bill that with the digital card, with the adjustment of working time, with the right to disconnect and so many more interventions, gives the worker the power to choose and safeguard his hours of work and you have composed your entire opposition tactics in the supposed eight-hour abolition. You are holding in your hands a bill that strengthens the audit mechanism of work to limit undeclared work, to limit illegal and unpaid overtime, to protect the worker and to increase his actual income. And all you can see is supposed eight-hour abolition. But since overtime is paid and the employee with the employer has agreed, what is your reason for falling into their wallet? Unfortunately, we have shaped as a country for many years such a well-established system of impunity of supposed or undeclared work, unpaid overtime, the exploitation of workers, the unsafe working environment and the poorly-intentioned trade union that we have finally made all the things we live today seem normal to us. Well, one must find the daring to intervene and the government of Mr.Mitsotakis has proved to have the guts to overcome populism to serve the people. In our country Labour law closes forty, indifferent to the rapid global developments in society, the economy and technology. In our country, the good employer is punished, law-abiding businesses often fail to compete with the illegals, who support their survival in tax evasion and tax evasion. In our country, trade unions are more concerned with trade unions than with workers, even for the company in which they work, when they remember to work, but usually indifferent to the social group as a whole. In our country, women are still faced with unequal treatment in the working environment, with a threat of maternity dismissal, even with risks to physical and mental integrity. In our country, ladies and gentlemen, the tenth hour and undeclared overtime are the rule, and unfortunately there are still powers that this distorted regime wants to remain and perpetuate, because above all it is of interest to them and so it does not matter to us, let us not be of interest to Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill under discussion of the Ministry of Labour is finally coming to intervene in key areas of working life, equally integrating and protecting new forms of work such as teleworking, digital platforms, actually shielding the eighth hour, while at the same time giving the necessary flexibility to employers and workers to settle their time as they want and as they jointly decide. By ratifying the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation, it recognises that violence and harassment in the world of work affect mental and physical health and hamper the access, persistence and development of people, especially women, to the labour market. The bill takes care of the family, dealing equally with motherhood and fatherhood, but also ensuring equal rights and leave to families who have acquired a child through adoption or assisted reproduction. Through the Independent Labour Inspectorate, it substantially strengthens the control mechanisms by cutting them out of political intervention. Regular transparent controls and strict penalties for offenders are the only real way to tackle undeclared work that will remove unfair competition to law-abiding employers and correct these market injustices. Finally, the bill regulates an issue which every Greek citizen is a source of problems, trade union immunity. No-one and much more the Liberal New Democracy cancels the right of every worker, of every man to fight and fight for his interests. No one cancels the right to organise workers in trade unions, as well as the right to strike, but all our rights must be delimited where the rights of others are affected. In Greece, unfortunately, we have come to strike more than we are working, and indeed the strike is blocking the work of the other without wanting. That cannot be accepted anymore. Protection of trade unionism shall not be equal to immunity of the trade unionist. And finally, as a handful of workers, will they have the right to trouble whenever they want, whenever they smoke the Greek society? The minimum guaranteed service is not a levelling-up of unionism and the abolition of the right to strike, colleagues of counter-population. It is fundamentally respectful to the citizen who is also a worker, who also has a family to feed, home to support and no one is entitled to exclude him from transport and public services. That's enough. We want trade unionism to be an essential weapon at the hands of the worker and not just a stepping stone for posting political thugs. An old, hard-working political and trade union establishment is desperately trying through make news and unorthodox cribs to disorientate public opinion, clamp on its chairs and keep its acquired privileges. This establishment is being protected today because it is made up of your own children. You are willing to keep Greece back so that it does not annoy your specific positions. Once again, you will be left with simple observers of the developments that have long gone beyond you. But the government is determined to move the country forward, to harmonise it with European conventions, while incorporating the good practices of advanced and socially sensitive states in Europe and the world and thus to form a new, modern working environment. That is why voting in favour of this draft law is an act of responsibility to workers, employers and all Greeks. I'm sorry we're off your left. Good night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u366	Thank you very much, Mrs Alexopoulou. Mr Emmanuel Synthrakis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u367	Thank you, Mr President. A bill of abortion, a bill of shame, a law of modern slavery, uh, the same thing. There is no longer a word that gives rise to the size of this atrocious crime at the expense of the working class, and from this point of view it is a bill rejected and has already swallowed as a rag in the consciousness of the working class. It is so inhuman that only with funny and bad arguments could the government justify it. And that's what it does. Her rapporteur does the same, so does the Minister for the Enforcement of the Eighth and Daytime Times of Work by imposing a ten-hour working period of up to thirteen hours with unpaid overtime. The mother, the mother you've removed from her mother's right to birth at home, because it's better than giving birth to the clinic, you're interested in this mother, which will finally be able to see her child Friday. It doesn't matter if her kid goes to school if she's in school. A little fantasy can communicate with him. Isn't that right, Mr. Maraveya? That's right. But on Sunday, where will the kid be at home? Mother will be at home or will she be at work? There are no sensitivities there. But the other one with the olives? The worker will be working for ten hours, but then he'll have time to pick up his olives. Yeah, but for the price of oil? There's no conversation there. No matter how much the price of the oil is, he'll have time to go and pick it up. What if the students don't? And they'll have time to read their exams. How much does someone have to laugh at themselves? How much does he have to laugh at himself? Tell me. Or how twisted can he be when he plays with patients' pain, saying they can now work overtime to get to the doctor? Yeah, yeah, he's the one who once swinged his finger on young people and young people because - he says - they can't do a structured CV. What a shame, what a disgrace! It's embarrassed, too. You have the courage to call this a flexible working hours, based on - it says - in the best practices in the European Union. No, it's not the whim, it's not just the barbaric instincts of a Hatzidakis, a Maraveya, a Cyranakis. These are the European Union's best practices, it's the PASOK law in 2011 to settle the working time that kept him and SYRIZA extended him. Up there now the New Democracy is building, changing them to the worst. Who wins from adjusting working time? The worker? No, the employer. It is enough to consider the following example: if, during an eight-hour period, a worker is working three hours for himself and for the remaining five hours for the employer, the so-called goodwill, which is done, in the case of thirteen hours, the time worked for the employer is increased to ten hours, three corresponding to his wage and ten hours of gains and the employer. In other words, it can be seen that the gain of the employer during the period of overemployment is huge since the time worked for the employer is increasing from five to ten hours, i.e. increasing by 100%. In other words, with the same wage - a case with the same wage, because we know where wages have gone - the arrangement in practice increases the unpaid time of work for the benefit of the employer. The government, in other words, implements a stable demand for employers, the concept of working day will cease to apply and thus pave the way for returning to what Marx said when referring to working conditions in England, the last century, which was called a factory day in which everything is allowed. The answer to the question of who loses from the arrangement is the worker, and that does not change, no matter how funny the government invoked as arguments for presenting the bill as a friendly place for the workers and their needs. Setting up working time will say that the employer will be able to use the worker as much as he wants on the basis of the company's needs, such as current, water, such as machines. In other words, dig and dig. It stifles collective agreements, introduces individual rights, removes the employee's right to claim better working conditions, wages based on modern needs. And you dare show it as not subtracted. Removal of fixed daily working hours means enslaving, degrading human dignity, burdens and damage to their health. A worker called to work for a period of six months ten hours a day is evidently unable to do anything other than a journey of work - food - sleeping - work. Logic is work, where, as much as necessary, the capital involved and the full deregulation of the working day. The worker is turning into a tool that lives to work and not the other way around. Spending ten to twelve hours daily at work in his travels to and from work with little time to rest, let alone for entertainment, social, and even trade union, activity. But what is free time? Isn't that the time of the day when the worker can create, be sported, go to the movies, go to a theater, have company with his friends, go to a tavern? Free time is their way of life. In order to adjust working time in practice, free time, rest, and social life itself are dramatically diminishing. The health of workers is required to ensure the competitiveness and profitability of enterprises. There is no free and working-time distinction for capital. The limits are now being abolished. They are perceived as a place of work and a way of making profits. Work ten to twelve hours, work continuously, means intensification, reduction of reflexes, exposure to more risks for more time. It leads to an increase in accidents at work and occupational diseases. It causes great damage to the labour force, to the mental and physical abilities of the worker who cannot be corrected if at another time the worker works less hours. The settlement is not about a working day but about the total annual working time. It means a symptom of his family and social life. It's falling apart from social activity. The smog is about the whole family, the husband, the wife, the children. Particularly heavy are the consequences for young people and young people who will be invited to live on much worse terms than their parents. They'll be marked by the rest of their lives. The dissolution of interpersonal relations, the break-up of social activities, by friends, friends, by company. The burdens for working women, mothers, are unbearable. And of course love, love, fellowship, solidarity will not have any place at all not only in their everyday lives but seek to stop there being hope in the minds and souls especially of young people. Workers and workers, young people and young people do not need - addressing them - neither crying nor laughing. They must be angry and persuaded with this lousy and medieval working regime that you have all legislated over the years since the early 1990s to this day. Because the source of evil is that the means of production are capitalist property. It's the source of all enslavements and man's alienation. And, as Marx said, "the chapter is dead work that as a vampire lives by sucking only the blood of living work. The more he lives, the more he sucks."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u368	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u369	It removes from the action of man its human and creative character because it prevents man from recognising himself and expressing his personality. So, by addressing the working class and especially its children - these modern slaves who want your rotten system - we tell them not to stop looking ideally, answers for the purpose and meaning of life. There is no higher ideal that gives meaning and purpose to the life of the working person than Marx had also said that it is not a matter of us knowing the world but of changing it. Which means what? To replace the homeless world, the world yours, the world where work will not be necessary but freedom. Therefore, it will not be understood by the Member as foreign to him, but free creation. Everyone's gonna be for one and one for all. That's for the socialist world. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u370	Thank you, Mr. Synergy. Mr Dimitrios Charitou is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and our beautiful Rhodope. Those who haven't been to Komotini, Porto Lagos, lose.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u371	Thank you very much, Mr President. Gentlemen of the government, what really problems do you want with your arrangements to give answers to a labour market similar to the jungle regime? Is it not that we are the last country of the European Union in the quality of employment index? Is it not that we are the only state in the European Union where the average wage fell compared to 2016, or that we are the only state in which the purchasing power of the average wage has been lost? Unfortunately, none of this can be answered. It is to wonder how much else you want to take down the value of work further. What arrangements are alleged to be protecting work and even European ones are you telling us that you are entering? It is only with the violent overthrows of work that took place in the 1990s in the countries of Eastern Europe. Did the workers and the trade unions ask you for such arrangements? The bodies of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship? None of them from what we heard in this House. You've got your ears shut and you don't hear them. You did not hear the resounding message sent to you by the workers with their grand mobilizations. Only when BSE speaks, do you take off your earmarks to listen to his praiseful words. But tell them, gentlemen, that the Greek people that others promised to him, and now with the arrangements you bring them down. Did you promise, gentlemen, that you would abolish the eighth hour and introduce the ten-hour unpaid work? Did you say so and the working world didn't understand? You told the workers that with the above hours of work they wouldn't go to the house money, but the day off? That with the night off they'd pay for the kids' care or the rents? Did you tell them that, gentlemen? Of course not. Because if you were to tell a worker with an individual contract of employment he would understand or that you are irrelevant to what is happening on the labour market - which you are not - or that you are mocking him. What don't you understand, gentlemen? That the worker in front of the dilemma is fired if he insists on claiming the days he is entitled to or bend his head to the pressures of the employer, will he unfortunately choose the latter? Fire, gentlemen, a new wave of migration of young scientists to search for work abroad with decenter and better working conditions. You don't get a nail as long as you serve those business circles and your friends who will benefit from cheap work. Is there, gentlemen, another country in Europe with such overworking and so many cheap overtime approaching the four hundred services? What legality do you supposedly want to impose on overtime? Is that why you frozen the employer's obligation to register electronically overtime before they started? This is a regulation of the SYRIZA government. You've made the number of overtime our national sports. To speak in terms of musicals, we are champions from the locker room to overworking and the number of overtime. What if they tell you that there is a health risk with an increase in accidents at work? It doesn't sweat your ear. The GFCM study says that forty thousand jobs will be lost with such overtime. You still pretend you're not listening. Did you, gentlemen, promise part-time workers that you would introduce the waste working hours on the same day? So they're gonna be working four hours in the morning, so many others this afternoon, making work elastic and hell of their family lives? Did you tell them and they didn't understand? What protection of work against redundancies do you speak unresponsively, when in the morning, your first arrangements were to abolish the employer's obligation to make known the correct reason for the redundancy of a worker established by the SYRIZA Government? It's unbelievable, gentlemen. Even if the redundant worker cannot go back to work, even if he is judicially justified, but with a few crumbs he is thrown out as a lemonopard in the buckle of unemployment. You don't listen to us, the opposition doesn't even listen to the trade unions. At least listen to what the Union of Judges who see today and provide for what will then happen in the chambers of the courts. That is why they are talking about unfair arrangements that will increase inequality. But there, where more black colors are written in history, gentlemen, it is that you are destroying the constitutional right of workers to claim a better life, effectively prohibiting strikes and putting trade union freedoms on the plaster. You are trespassing rights that the labour movement has won over the past decades. Gentlemen of the majority if you think that by putting the value of work and trade rights to Provros, you will give air to the apnea of investments and take off the economy you are very foolish. The country now needs sustainable, fair growth, which will place the world of work at its centre. Arrangements like today have no place in it, and that is why they will be abolished. In our development plan, the central position is the establishment of a new framework of labour relations, which will strengthen workers' negotiating power, by arrangements to reintroduce collective redundancies to individual workers, which will establish the extension of the most favourable contract for workers and the reintroduction of unilateral referrals to arbitration, rules which will extend a protection net to work from the reintroduction of the legitimate dismissal and the revision of the framework for collective redundancies to the protection of parttime workers and workers in contractors. In our proposal, the increase in the minimum wage to 751 and the introduction of three-and-a-half hours without a reduction in pay are promoters for fair and sustainable growth. I shall conclude, Mr President. Such changes now require workers and the economy. Changes that constantly gain ground in the consciousness of society. Be sure, gentlemen, that the vote on this anti-American law will speed up their dynamics and help create a new social majority, capable of giving a new progressive motion for governance for the country. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u372	Thank you. The curtain from the seventh circle of speakers will be opened by George Kotsos from New Democracy and the beautiful Karditsa with the squares and pedestrians.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u373	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the President, referring to Cardica, could speak of Chichipa who, along with Maria Sakkaris, made Greece proud around the world. They have shown that Greece, the Greeks and the Greeks have an unstable potential. Apparently to reach this level was not with the eye on the role. They worked hard, overtime and achieved too much. Well, in this Greece, we are envisioned. Greece of successes, of extroversion, of international discrimination. I have heard a fellow Member wonder what society we live in and whether we have ever talked to workers. Really? Do you think the 40% New Democracy took are all shipowners, factories, businessmen? Do you think these are the voters of the New Democracy? I wish Greece had so many shipowners, so many operators. In this 40%, however, there are too many workers, who trust the New Democracy, who believe the New Democracy and of course have turned your back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u374	That's a nice gift you gave them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u375	Please. You won't like it after it stops you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u376	I have heard the previous colleague announce from the Step of the House, of course with the security of counter-population, a minimum wage of EUR 731, a thirty-five-hour. Really, didn't you rule? Why didn't you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u377	We increased it by 11%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u378	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u379	You are very good at impulses when you are opposition, but very poor in politics and field. You are very galantic, when announcing from the security of the opposition strikes, but when you come to power you are disproved by yourself and forced to turn many degrees - not 360, but 180 - and indeed show your true size and your real self to the voters, who have assigned you to the seat of a minority, wherever you belong. Are you sure for this bill we're talking about, are you on the right field with the opposition rhetoric you're using? You've worn the boxing gloves and you're ready to fight, apparently because you think this bill is a privileged field. But let's see. We've had a working legislation since 1980. Is the 1980s the 2021s the same conditions? Should our labour legislation not be modernised, adapted to new data, especially in the digital age and new technologies? That's what New Democracy does. He looks forward, sees tomorrow, shapes Greece of the future in contrast to you who are clinging to the past and you are trying to keep both Greece and the Greeks back. But you can see that you're out of your mind. And I understand very well the need you feel to form a opposition or to take advantage of this opportunity, by exacerbating political dialogue. I have the feeling, however, that nobody listens to you. Because if things were as tragic as you describe them, a disastrous bill, shame, etc., in the strikes last week, we would also have been involved. I think the numbers speak better than anyone in how much your opposition speech touches the heart and soul of the workers. But why? Because what you simply say does not apply: abolish the eight hours, workers will be paid a day off. Really? Where did you read these? Isn't that the eighth hour the basis of the bill we're talking about today? Isn't that his base forty hours a week? And, of course, when the needs of the worker and the company, in cooperation at all times, there will always be the flexibility required. Is it bad if the worker wants to work for four days ten hours and take a day off for whatever reasons, for his recreation, for additional time with his family, if he also serves the business? Why are you reacting? Doesn't that make sense? Isn't that fair? In addition, ladies and gentlemen, there is no business without workers and of course no business-free workers. As in seasonal work. We're a tourist country. They will now go to the islands, with the opening of tourism, too many workers working for two, three, four months. And of course they won't work eight hours. They'll work 10 hours, 12 hours, maybe more. Is it bad for this extra working time to translate it into extra insurance and pension time? You say the occupants of the workers will be destroyed for the eighth hour. But isn't the digital working card a conquest? Isn't it in the right direction? Don't you find a good reason to say in that direction too? And I would really like, when we go to the roll-call vote, to see what your reaction will be for the fourteen days of paternity leave, for both months parental leave for both parents. What will be your reaction to sexual harassment or other harassment among the workers? We'll support the workers. What is your view of those strikes that with a minimum number of participants are afflicting an entire society? [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the President's seat.]] We do not want - you say - the workers' strike. Is it workers' or are they trade unions, however, to confirm their position, particularly when it comes to public services which are thus suffering an entire society with the participation of few participants? Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the New Democracy looks at the future, works for the future and tries to build Greece tomorrow, a dynamic, productive, extrovert. If you can't follow us on this course, at least don't pull us back. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u380	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr. SYRIZA. There's been a change with Mr. Burn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u381	Thank you, Mr President. 'The New Democracy looks at the future', I just heard and supplemented: It looks at the future and it's afraid. These reactions are not explained otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, the results that one expects to produce a bill like what we're talking about would look like a delicious joke if you didn't mean it seriously. Since this morning you have been coming with outrageous arguments to support an outrageous law on labour. You are telling us very seriously that you will abolish the eighth hour, a conquest of workers from the 19th century. So one wonders who you're with? With the worker or the Association of Greek Industrialists who has obviously financed New Democracy to become a government and who have been given 250 million and who have entered another 128 with the good management of its President in five years? However, by reading this law, with the worker you don't seem to be. One will tell me: "And what did you expect from a government that took the Labour Inspectorate and incorporated it into an organisation where employers are also involved? Really, why? So he doesn't get away with doing any more checks and gets a fine? Little is bad because the fines were reduced by 90%. What your law provides: For six months work ten hours a day without extra pay. That's three hundred hours of unpaid overtime. In return, in the other six months, you'll be working, you tell us, with reduced working hours. Of course, the first six understands that there will be no time, no family, no way to see your parents or to go supermarket, nothing. For the next six months, however, you have been feeding a paradise. Excuse me, the employer who has been trespassing eight hours all year long, and who will now legally trample half of it, will suffice in that? I mean, half of it? Won't he extend his hand to the other half, the most human? But here too, your law has foreseen that you may be kept by the employer for another hundred and fifty hours overtime. These are new ones. Calculate: Three hundred hours of unpaid services and a hundred and fifty paid makes us four hundred fifty, that is, two months and a week. Time has 12 months. We in Greece will be working for fourteen months and half with the same wage. How did you arrest this wonderful idea? Well done. Because I've heard since this morning complain that the opposition has been talking about galleys and the Middle Ages. Does everything I've presented and there are in the law at all? But there are other diamonds in this law. Dismissals: illegal and abusive redundancies are facilitated. It's absurd, of course, but that's what you're doing. You dismantle the trade unions, the only ones that can guarantee workers' support. Now the collective agreements will only be signed by the trade unions. The employer will decide on his own. Concession will only do for individual contracts of employment, where the worker alone and defenselessly sign what they give him, because another wage is paid by the employer when he speaks with all the workers and their union and others when he talks with each other separately in a closed room. Strike: Of course the right to strike is maintained because, unfortunately, it is guaranteed by the Constitution. That's where populism leads us. You have the right to strike, but the strike should be sufficiently justified. In other words, someone will give permission, depending on whether he likes the reason why you are working, that is to say if he likes the reason why you exercise a constitutional right. Can we talk about culture? Here to see a gala. In the field of culture, a middle-aged worker actually lives and reigns. For ten years there has been no sectoral collective agreement in the private sector, so that the worker is fully defenceless. The actors' contract was abolished in 2013 on the basis of a government of Samaras and at the same time the employers' club, the Panhellenic Free Theatre Association, dismantled itself, so who will the Greek Actors Association speak with? No one. Here, then, you dream that individual contracts of employment, the joy of the employer, will prevail. Remunerations have obviously compressed downwards and in the gala of culture contracts are often day-to-day contracts. Every night the worker is fired and hired the next day, though. If the show goes down there's no provision for compensation. Of course rehearsals are unpaid. It's two months rehearsal and two or three months of play, and if it comes down, you don't get a franc. This working middle ages, this gala we live with the New Democracy. Many contracts in the field of culture are short-term contracts and in order to complete one sign make two and three performances. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The limited time does not leave us, but indeed what to expect from a government whose Minister of Culture blames the artists, those who I described you, I described the working framework of the artists - that they are rewarded with black. Yes, gentlemen, black, black and nonexistent is the money and life of the artists in your day. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, this unfair law you are going to vote is for you and your closest people. Mostly it concerns those who voted on you. Good, you're returning the honor they've made with an anti-American abortion! But they will judge you again sooner or later and then they will repay you the gift you make to them today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u382	And we thank you for the time. Here comes Mr. Xenophon Baralikis. And because I think a colleague said before about children working seasonal on the islands, on tourists, today if you ask people from all this process, they will tell you that they have a 30% reduction. In other words, there is demand and there is no 30% to meet the needs, unfortunately, of tourism, the focus. You'll see it everywhere. Here, Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u383	Mr President, Minister, before I begin my position on the bill, I wish all the candidates for the pan-Hellenic examinations, all the children who have been prepared for this year under unprecedented conditions, but who have managed with great maturity and responsibility the particular situations of pandemic, good power and good success in their struggle. And I hope from the heart that their goals will be achieved and their dreams will become a reality. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill emphatically endorses the transition of labour, labour law and labour rights to modern times. As much as SYRIZA is mitigated with an obsolete concoction of void content without any substance, the wide mass of workers realises that the regulation of the bill has a positive imprint on their labour evolution and the protection of their rights. And that is, above all, the most disturbing of the Civic Opposition. In a political battle with strong ideological burdens traditionally considered as a privileged field for Acoustic Opposition, the New Democracy is a central government that wins the battle of ideas, truly safeguards labour rights and shields work in the new challenges of the future. The few thousand, acquaintances to all now a few thousand, are not the representative sample of the vast majority of workers who, at overwhelming percentages, have turned their backs on those in recent years who have been rebelling to their backs. Because it was quickly realized that they were suffering for the privileges of the few at the expense of the selfish for many. And that's because they themselves were struggling with feudal concepts and dealing with workers in an insulting manner for their interests and intelligence. With this bill, we put a definitive end to these anachronistic practices and, among other things, we provide the tools in the trade union movement to be reformed and regenerated under new conditions, with measures of transparency and intactness without shadows. Ladies and gentlemen, there has been exhaustive dialogue all this time on the new regulations and the innovative institutions introduced by this bill which have been analysed in detail. Allow me to focus on a number of points which demonstrate the harmonisation of labour legislation not only with the best European practices but also with the standards of the new technological age and the fourth industrial revolution, which requires flexibility, speed and adaptability in the new digital data. The epidemiological crisis has also accelerated the need for important areas and reforms in the field of labour relations which will shield workers' rights. One of these is the introduction of the right of disconnection to teleworking so that there can be a clear separation of working time for those working from their homes without having to be over one screen in infinite hours, experienceing a constant stress with their uninterrupted stay on digital work platforms. The same is true of the digital card, which is a great intersection. It is the guarantee of the time-limit and recording of overtime. Everything will be recorded electronically in the interests of the worker so that it cannot be arbitrary. Is the Civilian Opposition in this too? On the left, the discussion on the labour bill to the mother of the fights was suspended and is now being celebrated. That's why she surpassed herself in monstrous lies, make news, in danger and populism all the time. Until the eight hours were abolished it was invoked, in fact in the eighth hour, the five-day and the weekend were more effective and in the most resounding way than ever. The eight hours remain unnegotiable and there is no change in the former regime. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, this bill takes strict measures of a preventive and repressive nature to deal with violence and harassment at the workplace. In a sensitive area of labour rights, the Government of New Democracy is spreading a protection net and standing in vulnerable working groups to raise their voices, denounce arbitraryness and defend their honor and dignity. Our Government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, once again proves that it is standing energetically on the side of all those who have the greatest need with a high sense of social sensitivity, with brave actions and not with easy words and euphoric slogans. This bill, indeed, is a field for highlighting our ideological differences and our approach to the way we understand politics in the 21st century. We are aiming for the future, at the same time that some remain attached to the Middle Ages, which is why they are probably invoking it too often. Against backward and blocking forces, we are choosing progress for society as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u384	Thank you both for the time and you, Mr President. We are now continuing with Mrs Karasarlidou from SYRIZA. I made a mistake. I put Mrs. Karasardou before Mr. Kelles. It's okay, but there's no problem because you've changed with Mr. Cape. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u385	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today is anti-social, anti-social, anti-democratic and dominant is anti-democratic. That is why we consider the 'fighting mother' to be the fight we are giving and we will continue to fight against this anti-government bill, even if it is abolished. For the Left and for the entire progressive world, in all shades, in all its appearances, employment and social rights are part of its identity, history, struggles and express values for equality, social justice and democracy. Work is clearly an area where the dividing line between the political forces of progress and right-wing, neoliberalism. It is a battle of ideas and policies between two-dimensional opposite worlds, two-dimensional opposite concepts. This bill comes as a seal on a series of counter-energy and anti-social policy measures that the New Democracy Government, even on the next day of the elections, see in a context of extremist and dare to say authoritarian neoliberalism. All this, in the midst of a pandemic, a particular, difficult economic and social period characterised by unemployment, the economic and social crisis, the apparent decline in incomes, the phenomenon of Brain drain and, of course, of inferiority, which is a great deal of talk these days. All of this is coming to worsen them, making it even more difficult for the workers and making clear, in particular, great economic interests. What's this bill doing? It legislates the deregulation of working time, as it abolishes the legally established eight-hour working hours and introduces the 10-hour work with no additional earnings but with payment on the day-to-day day. It doubles almost cheap overtime, thus reducing the value of work and serving demands for business circles - well known are - to reduce the cost of overtime. Here we note that Greece has been the country that since the 1980s has given greater freedom to companies to impose a large volume of overtime on workers through the single, pan-European, institution of overworking. The bill, at the same time, and as a consequence of these measures, prevent recruitment, so it is already increasing the high rate of unemployment and discourages young people from seeking work at home, since they know that they will be forced to enter an unfavourable employment scheme, where cheap, elastic, unqualified work will prevail. This means that Brain is even stronger, instead of going to a society that provides incentives for young people and scientists to stay in the country. In addition, the figures are unrelenting. The negative effects of the eighth-hour redistribution in ten hours, if measured in full-time jobs that will be lost, reach 40 thousand. The bill also catalyses the collective agreements, by imposing individual contracts, a measure which removes the umbrella of protection of the worker and leaves him exposed only to the wishes of a mighty employer. At the same time it strikes the right to strike and to trade through strict rules and restrictions which determine the legality of the strike. It provides for penalties by introducing the civil liability that you are bringing to trade unions. It leads to uncontrolled redundancies without the obligation to re-introduce and in the event of unlawful or abused dismissal, it puts on the worker the burden of proving the invalidity of the dismissal. In other words, it is increasing the occupational precariousness of workers and the protection against dismissal, which has been in place for a hundred years. It also brings a number of measures which undermine the auditing, advisory and reconciliation role of the EIA, which turns it into an independent authority that is no longer subject to the control or supervision of the Ministry of Labour. In other words, the Labour Inspectorate is being cut off from its final role in respect of labour legislation, which clearly leads to an uncontrolled deregulation of labour relations. It hits workers with a complete change in the working model, thus promoting over-use by reducing pay. Such a bill, the government chooses to promote it, when all the rest of the world and Europe and the United States are in the opposite direction, that of supporting the real economy and the workers. The President of the United States, the metropolitan city of capitalism, what does he say? It says that wage increases are not considered a problem, but a tool, because we want employers to compete for the attraction of workers and not for workers who remain rare. For decades the profits of businesses have been the largest, while the wages of workers have remained low, so we have the margin to increase wages without affecting prices. The policy of the European Union, which, from the policy of strict fiscal stability, has changed since the pandemic, is also moving. It creates the Recovery Fund to strengthen the weakest economic countries, such as Greece, in order to develop with social criteria and reduce inequalities. In Greece, only 10% of employees are covered by collective agreements, while in similar countries in the European Union this figure is 70%. The Portuguese Government, by law, abolished individual contracts of employment. This bill affects growth, consumption, the real economy, it affects small and medium-sized enterprises. That's why they come out and shout, so GSEW goes out, the chambers go out, so the commercial world goes out and protests. Because with this bill, colleagues of the New Democracy, only the interests of the great, the very powerful are served. Unfair competition, for example by expanding work on Sunday, which is at the expense of professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises. Besides, of course, you are hitting people’s incomes, you are hitting demand, you are hitting consumption. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, concerns us all. It is about democracy, about the economy, about our youth, about the future of our country. We will continue to fight to break out as an anti-constitutional, we will fight it daily in practice. Of course, we're committed to canceling it, we're going to abolish it when we become a government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u386	Thank you very much. We continue with Mr. Kelles from New Democracy and then Mr. Boutsikakis, Mr. Liakos and Mr. Hatzigiannakis, and the process for today is completed. Mr. Kelles, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, ladies and gentlemen, in this draft law the Greek labour market enters a new era in which it harmonises with the European average, ensuring better conditions for workers and making our economy more competitive. And because we have heard many inaccuracies from the standpoint of counterpopulation, we must restore the truth. First of all, national legislation is enriched by ratification of International Labour Organisation Conventions 187 and 190, which promote health and safety and, respectively, the elimination of violence and harassment in the world of work. In particular, the Convention provides for an annual national programme of objectives which is annexed to the national strategy on health and safety at work, approved by a decision of the Minister of Labour following the agreement of the relevant Council. In this way, the state will have at its disposal a mechanism for continuous monitoring and improvement of working conditions. Convention 190 establishes a modern framework for the prevention and protection of workers, apprentices and applicants for work from violent behaviour and practices, as well as for harassment and other forms of psychological violence, promoting equality between workers regardless of sex. These are therefore international conventions which aim to protect workers more effectively and incorporate them into national law. In particular, Directive 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of the European Union concerns the balance between professional and private life for parents and caregivers. More specifically, this is a directive with a social pretext, since it provides for a fourteen-day paternity leave, a four-month parental leave for both parents, a flexible job through teleworking and an adaptable working hours for parents and caregivers who need it, a licence for assisted reproduction, childcare, a single parental family, and an extension of a nine-week leave after birth. It also includes provisions preventing redundancies in cases such as parents of newborns, which stipulates the ban on the dismissal of mother and father respectively for eighteen and six months after birth, as well as the exercise of rights arising from the directive, such as flexible work and settlement. I would particularly like to focus on the question of settling working time by an individual contract defined in detail in this draft law. What does this provision say, ladies and gentlemen? If there is no trade union organisation or agreement between the trade union organisation and the employer, then at the employee's request alone, the arrangement may be applied. In fact, it is up to the worker to choose, since it is also laid down that redundancies are prohibited if he does not wish to settle. Will you tell me: are the two members equal to the negotiation? No, it wasn't and it's never gonna be. This is therefore a flexibility because the worker has the power to regulate as he wishes his programme and to work in the hours that are more productive. Who really does not want this, as does the possibilities offered by teleworking, which is also regulated by this bill and which we have tried so successfully during the pandemic period? There have been many of the previous anti-populationists, such as that we have been driving in the past and many other such flares. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, is the digital card backwards, which will ensure in the most transparent way the days and hours at which workers will be working, putting an end to employers' work and arbitrary work? Is it a regression that is guaranteed eight hours and that workers are allowed to work four days a week longer and to enjoy their Friday weekends as they wish? Is it a violation of rights that limits overtime on an annual basis both in the industry and in the services sector, for which a fee equal to the paid hourly rate increased by 40% and 60% in the event of emergency, or that the compensation for each hour of illegal overtime is increased from 80% to 120%? Really, why don't you go tell the digital platform workers, who are finally protected and granted the right to establish unions and negotiate collective agreements? In particular, the self-employed on the platforms acquire rights according to those of employees on conditional employment contracts. Who's mocking who, ladies and gentlemen? With this draft law, the Mitsotakis government has been carrying out a deep intersection, which no one has so far attempted. An independent authority shall be established to ensure the implementation of labour law intact, without interference and political custody. The APRC is upgraded to an Independent Authority, which will gradually change the data on the Greek labour market, contributing to its development with a human figure. Therefore, see clearly the beneficial provisions of the bill and do not raise the remaining attendants in your area of trade unionists for no reason and cause. The days when the right to trade was used for party purposes really ends. The new law puts the trade union order in order and will not allow the immunity and exploitation of the trade union movement by a few and minorities who invade the marches, disrupting socio-economic life and at best threatening the property of the world. The civil responsibility of trade unions, the prohibition of reopening strikes by secondary organisations, when it has already been deemed illegal by justice, the transparency of their finances and the possibility of meetings and decisions from time to time lead to sound trade unions in light and its proper place, the social partner of the government. The world of work and healthy entrepreneurship acquires the guarantees in order to create free and unobtrusively, without extortion, without stumbling and without party patronages in a state of modern and competitive. The right to work and the right to strike is sacred and is the foundation for Greece of development that will ensure a bright future for the new generation. For all these reasons, we are voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u388	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Butsikaki from New Democracy. Mr Liakos and Mr Hatzigiannakis will then be given the floor and we will be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u389	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the New Democracy are listening to the needs of the people, the society, and we are giving out - the campaign of the Ministry of Labour has indeed taken place. We are strengthening its rights, modernising labour legislation and adapting it to the social, economic, technological developments and needs of our time. The Opposition states that it votes against the bill for the protection of work as a whole. As we have heard from previous speakers, you are voting against paternity leave, parental leave, extension of the protection of dismissal, the right of disconnection to telework, that is to say you want the worker to be available 24 hours a day to his employer and not to have a working day and thus not to have a personal and family life. You are voting against the treatment of violence and sexual harassment at work. I remember something at some point that you had done something 'hard' and for the Venezuelan Ambassador. You dare and you vote against even after all that has been done lately and have seen the light of publicity, with the victims of workers and all ages of women and men. It is for you, ladies and gentlemen, that you will not apologise to us in this Chamber for this rabies reaction. You will be asked to apologise to parents, victims, workers, teleworkers, because you are fighting to increase and extend their rights and incomes. You will apologise to the Greek society. I now come to the trade unions' reactions. I am not surprised that our work protection arrangements do not like the leaderships of certain organisations. What is it that they don't like? Apparently, they don't like to lose certain specific privileges. They do not like that we are strengthening transparency in trade unionism. They do not like that we prohibit the financing of trade unions by employers and parties. They do not like the guarantees that we are introducing that the strike will no longer be the right of workers who do not wish to strike, as the Constitution states. They do not like that the decisions on the strike will not be taken by all kinds of minority groups, but they will no longer express the majority of the workers. And of course, they don't like accountability. Because through the legalisation of civil liability, trade unions will be accountable for them during the strike. So he doesn’t like the bill to those who have it, so he learns to outlaw undisturbed. This is all over. It's over the bluntness. End of violence. Democracy means freedom, not coercion. May I remind you what has happened recently at the port of Piraeus? A handful of people closed the port by causing justified reactions from the world who desperately waited to travel and then collected his outcry. This situation cannot continue. It is not possible that any attempts by the few should be made at the expense of the rights of the many. Today we are putting an end to the pointless and disproportionate suffering of society as a whole. The opposition insists on the make news, insists on the gross lies that we supposedly abolish the eight hours or that overtime will not be paid, etc. No one listens to you anymore, because you know very well that we are specifically ensuring that the digital working card is introduced. There we end undeclared work and unpaid overtime. That is why we are updating the Labour Inspectorate to an Independent Authority to monitor compliance with labour law more effectively. We ensure that no one can oblige the worker to work for more than eight hours a day without his will. The working time arrangement applies throughout Europe, even in countries governed by your ideological escorts, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in Spain and Portugal. The New Democracy ensures that there will be no abuse on the part of the employer provided that the settlement is only made at the request of the worker himself. In fact, where is the evil if it helps the worker to ask himself to work for example a little longer than Monday to Thursday and to work instead of eighteen hours a day and to sit the rest, whatever it may be, Monday, Friday, whichever suits him, in consultation with his employer? Truly, how many employees would they rather not work four days a week to enjoy their family or any other activity in the remaining three? You deliberately confuse the overtime arrangement. With today's bill, ladies and gentlemen, we ensure that overtime is controlled and paid for as a whole. By increasing the plaque to them we give the worker the opportunity to increase his income. Unlike overtime, however, the arrangement does not increase the overall working time of the worker as it will work for a total of 40 hours a week. Apparently, then, you're talking about another bill, which only exists in your imagination. Ladies and gentlemen, the Labour Protection Legislation is a comprehensive reform as a whole, a reform that faces the modern and even time-consuming problems of workers as a whole. It is as a whole a bill serving the general interest, protects the weak, promotes the stability of industrial relations and strengthens development and social cohesion. That is why I call on you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u390	Thank you. Mr Liakos from New Democracy now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u391	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, it is a very long time since the working bill is being discussed. All the articles in this House have been discussed in the open consultation and in the committees. But I'm trying to figure out exactly what you're opposed to. You are accusing us of abolishing the eighth hour, but I do not understand why you are not accusing us at the same time of abolishing the five-day job. Because with this bill and the introduction of the working time arrangement, the worker will be able to work four days a week, while he will be paid for five, with the necessary condition that he has agreed to work longer these four days. All this will be guaranteed through the implementation of the digital working card. So no overtime will be lost. If you were honest with the working world, you wouldn't be shouting for eight hours, but you would be pushing for the digital card to be applied to every business as soon as possible. You're not talking about father's permission and father's protection from dismissal for six months after the child's birth. You know, I guess we don't live in a world of angelics made up. There are employers who consciously choose not to recruit women because of the privileges granted to possible pregnancy. Did it occur to you that these arrangements lay a basis to reduce gender discrimination in recruitment? You have been down on the streets to abolish the eighth hour, and on the basis of your attitude you will leave our weakest fellow human beings, the very ones that you say you are defending. What I understand from your highly hypocritical and contradictory attitude is that you are making a direct attack not on the government, but on anyone who wants a better life, a quality life, without fear of dismissal, when he chooses to spend more time with his family or as he wishes. It's a stand by all acidics if you remember that on your day you have all shown that you have disintegrated good times, rushing as government to be kindly assimilated most times asymmetrically to your positions. Indeed, it seems that your irrational psyche, which recognizes good time and quality of life with the privileges of bad employers who earn them by clicking on the backs of their employees, will come back again. I'm sorry if I shake you up - although you don't seem to be shaken - but by the real and productive people of your labor it separates you abyss, with a major moral difference. They strive to gain a more quality life while you think we owe it to you all Greek citizens. And I wonder why. Is it because you're tired of keeping your ideological halo high? I'm asking you, I'm thirty-two years old, I'm grown up like all my other peers in the crisis, we saw our parents struggling to study us, we saw our parents struggling and with their flaw contributing to the family budget, we saw our friends migrating and struggling to digest in another country. I'm sorry, gentlemen, gentlemen, but these are real struggles, struggles on a daily and honest basis. Except in all this, unfortunately again for you, we saw what it is like to study in another country, we saw what it is like to work in another country, we saw what it is like to work in other countries, and we want all that we have seen in our own country. Our time is very interesting to keep standing. We want measures to protect against violence and sexual harassment at the workplace. We want there to be provisions guaranteeing the rights of those working in delivers and couriers, but also regulations which oblig undertakings to provide them with the necessary equipment to ensure their health. We want there to be a right to disconnect from the teleworking when the time is running out. We also want fathers to be protected from dismissal immediately after birth and to be entitled to paternity leave too. We want a digital card for every worker to reduce any embezzlements of employers. In short, we want to follow the points of the times. We want to be a modern European country. Giorgos Theotokas had said in a speech: "The more interesting is a time, the more the responsibilities we take toward ourselves and our nation." So I call on you to bear at least the responsibility of yourself and the roll-call vote to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u392	Thank you for the time too. We're finishing the meeting with Mr. Hatzyannakis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u393	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely speak last today after a very long first day in an important bill. I've already forgotten, I'm talking with the mask, it's not a disaster for the bill, we've got a lot of different things to get rid of, we've got a lot of issues. For today's difficult day, as colleagues have said, we are not going to take the day off or get the right thing to do, because you have taken the big one today and will take it for the next few days. Unfortunately, however, it is the working people of our country who will draw it even more. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, who have been listening to you for so many days, not only today - you have been overtaken by yourself today, because you have already prepared them and written them, the documentation you have received on the various programmes or on your public places - you hear what you're saying? Do you really do fools or can't you just understand how a man works in the workplace? And I am not talking about whether we have studied abroad or in the interior, and we can't deal with it, and we can't, because the truth is that most of us - and with high and defeat - are not in the area of everyday biopale, in factories and in businesses, where, unfortunately, this bill is addressed. I too, because, in fact, I am not going to talk to you with these figures, which all the opposition, but also with all the trade unions and all the trade unions in fact have spoken to you and all the scientific associations about how many jobs will be lost justified. I'll tell you with very small examples, because that's how I figured it out, and I'll take it here, because people need to understand. We must also give people some answers. I was about a month ago in Aylis, in the area of Chalkida, in the historic Aylis, where the Trojan War began, to the lighthouse, to be exact. This region is an industrial area. There are quite a few factories, and the court itself and the Vathy, as it is called. However, because it is also next to the Oinophilus industrial area, the vast majority of families are industrial workers. And, indeed, we had a conversation with trade unionists, who were working every day in factories on unfair dismissal, in their view and, in our view, two clearers - that was the debate - and how the union that had the plant to react. Here's what they told me. It had nothing to do with the bill, because we did not discuss the bill: "The only way we have to press on the employer is to strike, decide work time at overtime. Why?’ They are their own words and I carry them: "Because if we three..." - the three who loaded and landed with the machine, with the clark - "... that we are the only ones, we don't do two and three hours overtime, which we do, they will be forced to take another employee. Therefore, the employer will be forced much more than this form, if we, that is, stop overtime than anything else." So you come and tell us in this very simple example, which I imagine happens to all the industries in the country, or in most cases, that you impose it - because it is a matter of imposing it, when it comes to two parts which are not equal - the two hours from which these people lived their families, because most of them, especially those who have no collective agreements, live with little more than the minimum wage and wait for these 150, 180, 200 euros - because that is what we are talking about - to bring to their family. And it can be for us here all that these 150 euros are in the committees of the House, but for them it is really the issue of survival, because they increase their family income by 20%. That is why I said two meetings: 75 and 75, 150. That is exactly what you come with this arrangement to cut them off, to give it to the employer, to the industrialist. Let's talk about it, actually. The vast majority of multinationals abroad are. They have been purchased, since in any case the entire industry has been purchased almost by the foreign industries. So, what comes Mr. Superhero Minister to legislate? It comes to cut off this extra from which families lived, to reduce in essence the income of the very poor, the backbone, the one you are being cut, from what I have heard in your previous positions, so that it can facilitate employers who really do not need any facilities in this area. Let us now see the other issue that you are discussing on individual contracts and whether they can really be determined by the wishes of the worker. And there I have an example for you: just a year and a half ago in Mandudi, Evia, a company decided, because there was no union, to close production, to send out two hundred employees and to call them to sign individual contracts. And people, because they didn't have a union, very - truly equal to the employer, while we and PAME there, tried to talk with the company's address - just one to one went and signed. The municipality was mobilised, the district, the regional groups were mobilised, because it was a very serious issue, as you can see, two hundred families stay on the road in an industrial and rural area. Nevertheless, one to one went and signed contracts, which only brought their families poverty. Why? Because they didn't know how to defend themselves and feared. This is the reality of workers when they have to negotiate with their employers. And finally - and I'm closing with it - what are you going to do? All that the lenders wanted in the years of the memorial. And don't forget now that you're swinging our fingers and giving up on us, what you've passed the underpaid wage, which was an insult to all the young people in the country. How many thousands, hundreds of thousands of young people have left and, unfortunately, all you will succeed, but we will not let you - be sure - the only result that this bill has will be to create another wave of Brain Drain. Why exactly? You tell me one of your own people who left and now sees this bill you bring and said that "I will return, because I saw that this bill really modernises us, makes us a European country and I left so long because I wanted to live a better future and, thankfully, your government came with this bill and I will return". If you find me one, I, in fact, will say that I made a mistake in all my speech and I will vote in favour. Be well. You know we won't let it pass. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u394	Mr. Comrade, she has an interest in what you said about the clark. You know, so many governments have been through, memorials have come and these to get a licensed clark takes two years. Two years to get a license, and today we don't have a clark. I mean, you go out and we can't. We need to find a solution. I don't think it takes two years for someone to get a licensed clark. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-14-S1-commons.u395	With the consent of the House at noon 0.02' the meeting is closed for Tuesday, June 15, 2021 at 9.00, on the subject of Parliament's work: legislative work, continuation of the discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs: "For the Protection of Labour - Recommendation of the Independent Authority "Working Inspection" - Validation of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment in the world of work - Settlement of the Convention 187 of the International Labour Organisation on the Framework for the Promotion of Safety and Health at Work - Incorporation of Directive (EU) 2019/1158 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 20 June 2019 on the balance between professional and private life".
