ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning! The meeting's on. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Before entering the agenda, I would like to make two announcements to this House. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform you that the Minister of Health, the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign Affairs, Health, Home Affairs, and State Secretarys to the Prime Minister, Civil Protection and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 29-32021: 'Enterrative arrangements for the protection of public health against the continuing consequences of the CIVID pandemic -19, the development, social protection and reopening of courts and other issues'. This bill has been classified by the Government as urgent and is referred to the competent Standing Committees. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House, in accordance with Rule 143(3) of the Rules of Procedure, that on Friday, April 2, 2021, at 10.30, a debate will be held on a pre-dated order at the initiative of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fotinis, Gennimatas at the level of party leaders, on the need for an effective national plan to tackle pandemic and its effects on the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Debates and decision on the proposal for a Council Regulation (EEC) amending Regulation (EEC) No 1762/90 on the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination pursuant to Rule 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure Article 3 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on the «Prime Responsibility of Ministers», as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and then Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information until 09-07-2019, Nicholas Pappas, in the performance of his duties: 1) Briefing of a political official in structuring and continuing (No. 159 PP) and (2) Plenipotentiary infringement (PK 259) in accordance with the proposal. Today's debate will take place in accordance with Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure, namely the procedure for the generalised question. In particular, with regard to the procedure for the debate and in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, I propose that Members' deliberations should be organised in three circles of speakers. The debate will begin with a first circle of six speakers, in which the six parliamentary groups with speaking time will be represented for each speaker of ten minutes without a secondary right. The first will be the Member from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group who has tabled the proposal, Rule 91(3), in conjunction with Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. The second and third cycles, pursuant to Rule 65(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, will each be composed of 12 Members, namely, from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, five Members, from the SYRIZA three Members and one MEP from each of the other four parliamentary groups with a five-minute speaking time without the right of second reading. Since the number of speakers has increased, with the addition of another twelve Members of Parliament, in accordance with the decision of the Conference of Presidents, respect for speaking time is essential. The Parliamentary Groups have already submitted a list of speakers and the Office has drawn up a single list, in which the Members of the Assembly will alternate with the Members of the Representation, in order to respect the analogy of the power of the parliamentary groups. Members of Parliament as defined in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure may also participate in the debate if they so wish. The speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Chief of Officerial Representation is up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the remaining four parliamentary groups. The ministers, if they so wish, will speak for ten minutes of the hour. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for twelve minutes, without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure. In other words, if the chairman of their parliamentary group speaks before him, they will speak for six minutes. The Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, are entitled to intervene whenever they so wish, Rule 97(4) of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. I would also remind you that, when the Minister intervenes, it is customary not to be followed by a Member of the Co-population, so in any case there will also be a similar adjustment to the list, so as to ensure that the rotation is fully carried out, but that the powers of the parliamentary groups are not finally affected. I think that is not going to happen today, because there will be no Minister. Changes in the order of speaking should be made in exceptional cases by means of a letter from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which the Members belong, addressed to the Bureau and subject to the need for mutual change. The maximum number of those who can attend the plenary sitting, according to the health protocols, is up to fifty and I would ask you to respect that. In accordance with Rule 155(6) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, during the debate on the proposal for prosecution, the House may allow the motion to appear before the person against whom the proposal is directed in order to hear his views. In any event, this person shall have the right to submit to the House a memorandum, registered in the Minutes. The person against whom the proposal is directed may speak, for good reasons as we all understand, thirty minutes. The information we have is that Mr Nikolaos Pappas will appear before the House in order to hear his views. I propose that she speak immediately after the first circle of six speakers, without prejudice to the rights of the Heads of Parliament and of Parliament, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the House. I would ask that we stick to this, that is to say, after the six main speakers. This is the first part of my report, which is procedural. I guess there isn't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u3	Then it is, Mr Ragosi, what you want to talk about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u4	And for that. I am asking for all the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u5	Then I'll say it all together and you'll make a total placement. However, that is the point of order. Now let's go to the way in which we vote. In accordance with Rule 86(3) of the Constitution, Rule 155(8) and Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament at the end of the debate, Parliament shall decide, by secret ballot, on the setting-up or non-specific parliamentary committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, otherwise the proposal shall be rejected. In accordance with Rule 155(8) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the vote does not involve the one against whom the proposal to prosecute if he is a Member. As you know, the secret vote can be taken by physical presence, as well as by written vote, after the amendment of Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure of the House, in conjunction with the decision of the Conference of Presidents. In this case, before the vote, their votes will be handed over to the Bureau in sealed files. This file will be enclosed in a larger, second file, which will state the name of the Member or the member of the Government who will vote by written vote. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. The lists will be delivered by accredited colleagues from the MPs or members of the government who are to vote under Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. On the occasion of the vote and on the basis of the time-limits laid down, the meeting is to take seven hours. On account of the subject of the meeting, there is an appreciable excess, but in any case the secret ballot will start no later than ten hours, i.e. at 19.00 a.m. at night. The vote will take place at the successive turn of Members to six groups of fifty in alphabetical order. Each team will be here every half an hour to vote. In other words, the first group from Mr.Apostolos Avdela to Mr. Georgios Vlalos from 19.00' to 19.30', the second group from Mr. Voludakis to Mr. Ioannis Kolianos from 19.30' to 20.00', the third group from Mr. Stavros Kalogannis to Mr. Ioannis Lambropoulos from 20.00' to 20.30', the fourth group from Mr. Georgios Lambroulis up to and including Mr. Athanasios (Thanos) Moratis from 20.30' to 21.00', the fifth group from Mr. Andreas Nikolaos until and Mrs. Maria - Helen Souli - Villias from 21.00' until 21.30' and, finally, the sixth group from Mr. The Committee of Inquiry will then proceed to the sorting and counting of votes. On these two issues Mr Ragus has asked for the floor. Here, Mr Ragosi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u6	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u7	Of course, Mr. Karathanasopus. Immediately afterwards, you will also be given the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. We have a radical disagreement on three issues that you mentioned earlier. I'm starting at the most, maybe, simple, that Mr. Pappa will take the floor whenever he judges himself, according to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u9	It's a proposal. It's not...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u10	Yeah. We therefore do not agree that it will in any case speak after the first circle of speakers. The second is that, since an additional group of speakers has been added by decision of the Conference of Presidents, it is clear that the start of the vote for 19.00 p.m. cannot be taken as an exclusive and absolute limit, because it is not certain that the procedure envisaged by all the Members will have been completed until that time. The second point to which we disagree is that the vote cannot begin unless the last speaker's speech is finalised, as set out in the list of speakers given by all the groups. The third and most important point, Mr President, is that we have an absolute disagreement, which was expressed during the meeting of the Conference of Presidents, with this, in our opinion, abusive choice and a procedure that goes to be implemented, and according to which, in our view, we believe, the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House are being anticipated and are not the secrets of the vote. This is the only procedure provided for in the secret ballot. The idea of being able to do so by written vote and, indeed, abusively, because it is not even the number of Members who could take part in this vote by written vote, in our view, is a clear violation of both the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the House, because, as the subject is, and in the introduction that you have already made, they can, in theory, vote by letters. And how will the Evros MP vote by letter and observe the rule of secret ballot, who will have to vote after the procedure has been completed here at 19.00 a.m., at 20.00 a.m. at 21.00 a.m. at night? When will he send the letter of vote to the procedure that is supposed to be secret and will not have passed through his parliamentary group - or - at that time? And when will this so-called secret vote arrive? In our opinion, therefore, there is a serious, serious circumvention on the part of the majority. We call, even at the very last moment, for this intention of a government majority to be revoked, for the Rules of Procedure to be respected, and for secrecy to be applied in the voting process. In any case, Mr President, I will close by asking a question. It's not rhetoric, it's real. At the moment - and if not at the moment, we will come back to this question and during the sitting - how many MPs are there from abroad - I imagine no one because of the quarantine - how many MPs are there for whom we have a doctor attested to be in quarantine because of a coronary or how many women Members of Parliament are currently unable to attend because of pregnancy? These three points, therefore, Mr President, are, for us, the three most important - the most important of all, the last - disagreements we have in the process that goes on to implement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, as you have proposed, I would like to refer to the voting procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u13	In the first part, Mr Ragoussi raised Mr Pappas's point. You don't object, do you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u14	We don't have one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u15	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u16	It makes sense whenever he wants to talk. That's not the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u17	The rest of us all agree.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u18	Besides, it wasn't mandatory as far as I can tell. Your suggestion was to be facilitated. It goes without saying, however, that whenever he wants to talk, he can talk. That's not the point. We would, however, like to put the vote on. The Conference of Presidents also stressed our disagreement with this proposal. There we have proposed that, because the vote is secret, all Members should vote in the natural presence, except those who have proved to have problems either in quarantine or have a problem with a coronary, or something else serious, which does not allow them to vote and which must be defined in advance. Only them can be facilitated and voted by written vote. For the rest of us, we have stressed that they should be here and with their natural presence because of the secrecy of each and every one of them's votes and we will insist on this proposal, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u19	Could I have the floor, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u20	I too, Mr President, would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u21	Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor and then Mr. Plearis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u22	Mr President, we would also like our side to be recorded. I think it goes without saying that when we speak of a secret vote, we mean a secret vote. So we do not achieve a secret vote by means of a letter of vote. This thing can't be done. We need to find a solution. The secret vote, in order to honour the procedure, as we must honour it, and as the Rules of Procedure provide, must be a secret vote, which is not achieved - I repeat - by means of the letter of vote, which we know will be taken. The Group of the European People's Party will prepare them in the enclave and will be ready. So it can't be that way. The Member must come here, vote in secret, as provided for in the procedure. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u24	Starting with the first, I would like to say that the majority agrees that Mr Pappas can speak at any time and must have the absolute tolerance, as much time as he needs to put forward his positions. So there is no question on our part in this matter. On the second question of duration, the duration you have raised, Mr President, is 12 hours, much more than the time laid down in the Rules of Procedure. We're talking about a circle of speakers that if they're kept...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u25	It's not twelve. The maximum is ten hours from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u26	I'm sorry, ten hours. If we see that the only cycle that comes in from five minutes is an additional hour, in the seven hours, i.e. you already have three hours more than specified. We now go to the third issue, to the issue at issue. First of all, I do not understand whether there is a question of violation of the Constitution, of the Rules of Procedure, or whether it is a question of moral order, because it is not a question of constitution, because Article 86 does not define a secret vote in this procedure. Rule 86 states that it is a vote with the absolute number of Members. We're going to the regulation on the letter. With regard to the letter of the Rules of Procedure, which has now been amended for the sake of pandemic, the vote shall be taken at the same time. So there's no question in the letter. We now go to the moral dimension that has been set, which is offensive to the Member as he has been put. If anyone believes that the MP has closed files that come and throw them here, then we're insulting the very function we're doing. This may be the case, if necessary, in the parliamentary group that has been mentioned as operating this way, but it does not work for the Member. Secondly, if there is a question as to what Mr Ragus has said, whether or not throughout this whole time he will send the vote, let's go see what has happened in the past. On 21-2-2018 there were forty letters in letters, secrets, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in discussion and decision-making for preliminary. Four SYRIZA MPs who were ministers abstained, forty ballots entered the polls. If there's a question of moral order, wasn't there for those forty votes? On 18-5-2018 again, we had ten ballots and fifty ballots went in. It was considered that the secret procedure was respected. The Rules of Procedure then hadn't changed. It is now the same regulation that provides for this possibility in the pandemic. If there was a problem then that was missing abroad with the fifty ballots that came in, why should there be a problem now? In the debate then on Mr Papagelopoulos, three roll-calls came by elephant. The most important thing of all is that we now have the change in the Rules of Procedure, which stipulates that, after an opinion - take note of - of the Scientific Service of Parliament, whether the term of secrecy is respected is positive, Parliament's opinion is positive and is able to make use of the letter of vote, which is obviously not compulsory. So the Member is currently able to exercise his right in a natural presence, come here to vote and has the right from the letter of the Rules of Procedure to exercise his right by written vote. There is therefore no problem, primarily from the Constitution, because neither the secret ballot nor in any case the Rules of Procedure of the House are mentioned. The letter is clear and allows it. Anyone who disagrees, but is defined in the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u27	Finish it, Mr. Pleari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u28	In all these procedures, there has never been any question of secrecy being eroded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u29	Placements on proceedings are completed. In addition, the Bureau has to say as far as Mr Pappas is concerned, we have unanimously agreed that whenever he wants to speak, to speak. It was also a proposal from the Bureau as usual. We didn't make any originals. As far as time is concerned, Mr Ragosi, we have timed and normally end at 17.00 p.m. Because, perhaps, some party leaders will come and, of course, the Bureau will show a little tolerance for the rapporteurs and colleagues, we have put two more hours. Therefore, the end at 19.00 is with full tolerance and, if they speak, also party leaders. We don't know who's gonna talk, but we're sure not all gonna talk. Consider that it is three hours physically present and then it takes two more hours to make the record, without making any mistake of the result. We need to think a little bit of this House's employees. That is, before 00.00 hours, not to end the procedure for either the President-in-Office or the party rapporteurs. It'll be over for the other colleagues earlier. In addition to what Mr Ploris said, there is also a debate on 8-10-2019, without the Rules of Procedure of Parliament having changed, when it was the proposal tabled by thirty Members of the New Democracy concerning Mr Papagelopoulos, where three ministers voted without the Rules of Procedure having changed by a letter of vote. No subject was raised by anyone in the Chamber. I am not talking about the SYRIZA, which was ten ballots, which were forty ballots at one time and fifty ballots at the next, without the Rules of Procedure of the House. On 19-5-2020, too, the formal part has been taken on board with the change in the Rules of Procedure. You put a political dimension in it, Mr Ragosi. I am also a little surprised that SYRIZA had not voted, because when the Commission meeting on the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament was held, this change to the letter of vote was voted on by all parties other than SYRIZA. You've voted for the rest of the parties. I have the minutes here. It clearly says what happened and there is a special paragraph - I do not read it now - which says 'on the basis of measures'. The objections have been recorded, then. I imagine you'll come back to your location as well. Don't waste more time. To start the debate with the rapporteur from New Democracy, Mrs Papakostas Catherine. Here, Mrs Papakosta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in the exercise of the country's rule by the Party of Officers today, the political rhetoric of SYRIZA was structured as a whole by the left's record of moral advantage. In reality, however, this period of government was primarily characterised by political amoralism, while it was mostly persecuted by arrogance, opportunism and especially by endless compulsion - one would say - a requirement to shape and undermine certain institutions, so that the slogan "first left" would be replaced by every fair and unfair means by the pursuit "forever left". And this is proof of this - unfortunately - for the Greek society, but also for our own political system - as SYRIZA officials have shown themselves to be affluent during the period of his administration, among other things, to three mortal sins, namely the development of inappropriate relations between ministers with economic operators, the plan to consolidate the media with the support of controversial businessmen in the tender for television licences and the attempt to manipulate Greek justice with the choice of different judiciary officers. And before you react by breaking your clothes, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Response, accusing us of allegedly dissecting political muddling against you, let us defuse your memory and make you clear that we are not claiming the patronage of this finding, as this is only a placement of your former Minister and current colleague of SYRIZA Mr.Euklidis Tsakalotou in August 2017 at the Central Committee of SYRIZA. So today we are here to investigate the possibility of one of SYRIZA's three mortal sins being committed, namely this plan of evacuation and manipulation of the media in the country in a way that is completely illegal and uninstitutional, as well as the involvement of certain political officials, because, on the basis of the document referred to at No. 959 of 2021 by the Vice-President of the Ice Authority, it was forwarded to the House in a file relating to the colleague of Officer Nikolaos Papapas, former Minister of State, and then Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information. From the in-depth reading of the above case-file, questions arise in many respects, which undeniably give rise to shock and awe, regarding the action and manners of the then Minister, Mr. Papapas, as having the competence for television licences in 2016 and the general decree, in order to obtain Mr. Kalogritsa a television station licence. The shocking revelations resulting from the litigation and, in particular, the testimony testimonies and evidence beyond the operation of the parastate by SYRIZA and refer to mafia practices. Of course we knew about the pastures. However, stories came with virtual contracts, political orders and millions who changed hands. Protagonist again, as in the dialogues with businessman Sabby Mionis, Mr. Nikos Pappas. Of course, this time the "magaz" has another name. Called 'White House'. However, the way this works is the same dark one, and the objective remains the same: the creation of an institutional mechanism in justice, in the state, in the media that will serve - what else? -'magaz'. The questions that need answer are therefore relentless: Did Mr. Papapas ask Mr. Kalogritsa to participate in a company scheme that would be granted a television channel license as a front loan to his left net business name, with the aim of controlling this station from the SYRIZA by promoting his political positions and at the same time dismantling his political opponents? Did he breach the terms of the tender and his duties by intervening and asking the representatives of the company ‘CC’ to participate in the operation by initially granting the sum of EUR 3 million to Mr Kalogrisa for the issue of a guarantee letter of equal value for his participation in the tender by ensuring that he received the licence? Has Mr Pappas ordered in his indictment and in his accompanying memos to give Mr Kalogrisas his name alone, while they would bring in the remaining money of 50 million and thus have the full responsibility, organisation and supervision of the entire project? Has the money been given for this purpose by means of a virtual super-energy contract as the most appropriate way of making money transferred for legal reason resulting from the exchange of e-mails? Has Mr Papapas ordered and has, after the cancellation of the tender, ensured the reimbursement of the EUR 3 million to Mr Kalogrica's company of interests, although the guarantee had been swallowed and then ordered that the above amount be channelled to the pro-government paper 'DOCUMENTO' and then to obtain the entire assets from Mr Vaxvanis without any consideration from Mr Kalogris? Has he asked further - and this is an autonomous illegal act, in relation to the previous one - from businessman Marinakis to give Mr Kalogritsa the sum of EUR 20.5 million to pay for the television licence of the provider, which would be controlled by SYRIZA? Did he request - and this is also an autonomous illegal act - from the businessman Mr. Near Mandela to deliver 51% of his television media to Mr. Kalogrisa in order to obtain that television channel controlled by SYRIZA? Has it coordinated the transfer of the sum of EUR 3 million to Mr Kalogritsa's company with government acquaintances in the United Arab Emirates and Cyprus, which he should not leave a spot in Cyprus? Did he know or did he not know that Mr. Kalogritsas did not fulfil the conditions to participate in the tender for television licences, as he admits he did not have the capital adequacy, as did the so-called ‘whereabouts’? Has he, however, tried to ensure and ultimately ensure Mr Kalogritsa's illegal participation in demanding money from third parties, thereby violating the terms and conditions of the competition, with the ultimate aim of ensuring Mr Kalogritsa's television licence and channel, which would be controlled by SYRIZA? Has Mr. Pappas ever been thirsty - and if not, why? - the statements made by the above-mentioned operators confirming in their interviews the above involvement of Mr Pappas? We, ladies and gentlemen, had already denounced to the Greek Parliament that Mr Kalogrisa's company was illegally involved in the tender, as he made a late letter of guarantee, the file he had submitted before the competition did not show that he had the money to take part in it, was declared unlawfully as a final successful tenderer, since both from the registration file and from the control it meant that he did not have the money for the licence, but there was, of course, the reference to the notorious pastures. In addition to the parliamentary scrutiny, we have also filed reports of criminal offences, with the result that Mr Cretso and the members of the competition committee who were present and fully controlled by the SYRIZA will be prosecuted. And, of course, as you are well-established, you ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations were using us to that end. But again, if you do not consider the statements of your former front and friend Mr. Kalogritsa to be sufficient or reliable, even if they are supposed to be a rumour of his imagination, as you claim, how can the e-mails of CCC officials and the statements of Mr. Tobras and other executives be interpreted? Why should they not be recorded directly or indirectly in a financing transaction, which would leave a trace of the final transaction? Who's in charge? What is the White House and what is the White Porscha? What are the friends who would receive the money and what is the Cyprus account at issue? Will you say today in the Greek Parliament and in the presence of the Greek people that there is no need to answer all these questions? On the basis of the complaints of the relevant case-file, the "White Porscha" is the Greek Government at the time and the "White Porscha" is the person then associated with it. How will you explain to us today, ladies and gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officers, the fact that the members of this company are allegedly aware of the virtuality of the contract and if that is not the case - as you claim - and this is a legitimate transaction, why should they then not have to leave a fingerprint? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I will need two more minutes. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The above actions and omissions of the former Minister, Mr Papa, ladies and gentlemen, are undoubtedly sufficient evidence of the objective nature of certain criminal offences, in particular the bribery of a political person and, in particular, of the office of the Minister against a tightening up and as a result, as established in paragraph 1 of Article 159 of the Criminal Code, of the violation of a serial and consistent duty as set out in Article 259 of the Criminal Code. For these reasons, it is also proposed that a Special Parliamentary Committee should be set up to carry out the statutory preliminary examination of the former Minister Nikolaos Papapas in order to investigate the possibility of such offences being committed in the performance of his duties. The preliminary examination must be carried out immediately, not because the New Democracy wishes - as you once again call for - to change the agenda in relation to topical issues, such as the coronary pandemic and the financial consequences it creates, but because we are obliged to do so, since any time-lag and, in particular, the suspension of Parliament's work politically pursued by the SYRIZA will lead to the deletion of any responsibilities - if they exist - by Mr Pappas. And since there is a lot of talk recently about the natural judge, we must make it clear at this point that if the House today decides on the setting up of a preliminary committee, and if the committee set up at the time will then draw up a conclusion in order to get Mr Pappas to justice, then the Special Court will certainly have him. Ladies and gentlemen, you are well aware that the Greek society at the expense of the pandemic and the economic and social consequences that it creates cannot accept the existence of new shadows in the political life of the country and above all wants the investigation of cases that bear the smell of scandal. The deportation and circumvention of the institutions of the rule of law and of democracy which has been attempted and carried out during SYRIZA's five-year rule was undeniably brutal: insurmountable populism, political and money connections, the parallel operation of ex-institutional and parallel centres, the effort to control all the joints of power, the tolerance to trans-national methods of enrichment of its ministers, provided that the work they did - outsourcing - did - did not prevent the agenda of "magazing". The construction of complaints against the wife of the Prime Minister and other political persons is only a tangible demonstration of the total collapse of the supposed moral advantage of the Left. The case of the competition - fiasco for Mr Papapa's television licenses - is sure to be taught for many years in universities as a model of interactiveity. We are therefore determined to investigate fully and objectively another case allegedly expelled by the SYRIZA Government for this time to check the press.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u31	Close with this, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u32	As a political world, and above all as a Greek Parliament - I am ending, Mr President - we must firstly seek unplanned light in all the cases before us, always respecting the presumption of innocence of the political person under investigation and always acting in the context of our duties, as laid down by the laws and the Rules of Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u33	The rapporteur will now have the floor from SYRIZA, Mr Janakopoulos Dimitrios. Here, Mr. Janakopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. It is obvious that the government is in absolute panic. Once again I was absent in a move of void symbolism, because in reality Mr Mitsotakis and his ministers are among us today in the construction of this case, in the construction of this slander against Nikos Papapas, the MP of SYRIZA and former Minister. Where the government is truly absent is in the management of the pandemic that scans and reaps. Every day there are a sad record. First Greece in the rate of increase in cases and deaths in the last two weeks, forty-three countries in relation to the management of the coronary, according to the list of "BLOOMBERG". Sad record today intubated. Every day dozens of our fellow citizens are losing their lives outside intensive treatment units, with the percentages of the dead outside ICU touching even 80%. This is the situation in which the country is now found. Not to talk about the economy and democratic institutions that are now in a treaty of deep crisis. So, within this treaty, in this climate, the government will do everything in its power to escape and change the agenda, but also exacerbate political confrontation, because we have been telling you that Mr Mitsotakis has been telling you that with today's operation, or with the exacerbation of society - remember the events in Nea Smyrna - he has been trying through the strategy of tension to escape the deadlock that he created. So the general strategy of acidification and tension is also part of your current initiative, which I understand is not yours, it is Mr Mitsotakis. That is the first reason for today's prank, in which once again you drag Parliament after the previous prank, the Papaggiopoulou case. But there is another reason, not just the escape. The other reason is revenge and an unpaid note of your resignation, of the New Democracy and of Mr. Mitsotakis himself, to his own canalous friends. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because neither you nor Mr Mitsotakis' Canadian friends will ever forgive the fact that SYRIZA has attempted and managed to rationalise and regulate the television scene in the past five years. Because it was in the years of the rule of SYRIZA, where the canals for the first time after 1989 paid a tax on advertising and were forced to pay for the use of frequencies, which you, your party and each of you, had granted them free of charge for twenty-five years. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To communicate with your motives, in relation to your notes, in relation to your designs. These are clean and everyone knows them, and you know them too. Now, where do you support this prank? You fully support it in the contradictory to a degree of ridiculous testimony of Mr. Kalogerica. I'll talk a little bit about these contradictions, we'll have time to talk about them later. Who are they? That Mr. Pappas was supposed to be interceived to meet the owners of the "CC" family, i.e. the family of Huri. What, though, did Mr. Tobras say in this regard, which Mr. Kalogritsas had called as a witness? That it was Mr. Tobras himself who intervened to get Mr. Kalogericas to meet with the Huri family, that is, we have the witness that Mr. Kalogeritsa is calling to falsify Mr. Kalogerica. First clue. Secondly, you say that it was virtual the contract between ‘TOXOTIS S.A.’ and ‘CCC’ for the projects in the United Arab Emirates. But you are ignoring, deliberately and intentionally, that there is a decision by a Swiss arbitration tribunal, which justifies the 'CCC' side, saying that no virtuality exists in this contract and that there is a project that must be completed here, and so it justifies the side of the Huri family. It is, however, clear from the evidence available in the case-file itself that Mr Kalogritsa, having been declared inferior to the tender, has been expelled by the signing of the relevant Mr Kretsos - with our signature, he has continued the negotiations with the company in question, in order to proceed with the work. You ignore that, too. Let's go down. They were given, he says, 3 million in the "DOCUMENTO" Journal, while it appears that these millions received by Mr. Kalogritsas from the company were committed for months after the release of the newspaper "DOCUMENTO" until January 2017, when they were returned to Mr. Kalogrisa. Do you want me to go on? As regards the pastures, can I remind you that it was your government, the government of Mr Samaras who, in 2012-2013, advertised this area as the maximum investment opportunity by the mouth of Mr Mitarakis, and spoke of investments of EUR 1.2 billion? Have you forgotten that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u35	Totally!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u36	And in any case, you also denounce the 'GRANT THORNTON', and the Council of State which has decided on all these issues which you are currently putting as supposedly evidence which incriminate Mr. Papa, that he has allegedly intervened and unlawfully allowed Mr. Kalogritsa to participate in a competition that he should not participate in. Because these have been lodged as objections to the Council of State by all the other participants in the tender and they have been rejected one by one. So what exactly are you looking for here? Shall we go a little further? After five years of mud, slander, threats and extortion from the publishing bands that make up the "state" Mitsotakis, because we are now talking about status in that country, you have come to bring this proposal here, this farce. Five years you've filled the world with threats, blackmails, vocals, you've "mountain pain, and you've given birth to mouse". Do you understand that? This proposal is politically vengeful, it is legally funny and pragmatic. What are you doing? Mr. Kalogrica, who was bringing him up "forward" and downloaded "principal" to the ultimate trustworthy witness that supports all your charges against Nikos Pappas. That's what you've done. You have justified him, that is, you yourself. And you've done more than that. Consider that you are placing yourself in a conflict between private individuals by adopting as a whole one of the courts judged to be unacceptable witnessing of one of the two. That's what you've done! That's what you've done!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u37	The D.A. sent the case file!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u38	Listen, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u39	Calm down, please, ladies and gentlemen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u40	I'm really wondering how the New Democracy has the nerve, because it's about nerve, it's about strife. I have heard you, Mrs Papakostas, talking about complexion, 'lisveria', about illegal enrichment. Do you know which party you belong to? Do you have a picture? Have you seen the latest news reports? Have you seen what treaty is the information in that country? And do you think this is random and that it has nothing to do with the unpaid notes? And I heard you talk about business relations. Who? Kyriakos Mitsotakis' party speaks on the left regarding business with businessmen! The prolongation of the'scole', the extension of the direct assignments and the companies that flee like mushrooms and we don't find them in GEMI to see where the next hundred, quarter-score, thirty-score, millions, the retreat of the intercepts of Mavriki and Gryllakis, the party that fused away the prime minister, Mr. Christoforikos, comes and gives us lessons about business relations! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This case will take its course. We know you've made a predetermined decision, as you had decided in the previous case. But know well that the line you're following, the line of revenge won't work for you. And when you talk about "lisveria", when you talk about business, you know something very well: Boss the place, the society for whom they go into Maximos, the place and the society for millions that come and go. But all this will have time to think about it well to apologize when that time comes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u41	Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement. Please, those of you who want to come out of Athens, you can do so. But, within Ethiopia, please be calm. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. The debate today relates to the proposal for a committee to carry out a preliminary examination of media and to the pursuit of control of information by specific methods. We have a case-file on the basis of this and Parliament's decision, if that is the case, will proceed. I shall therefore try to limit myself to the issue we are discussing today, because objective and comprehensive information is a crucial element of democracy and at the same time a basic right for the citizen, which, unfortunately, is not only in dictatorial, authoritative and unresolved regimes seeking its full control, but also in modern advanced democracies where its influence is sought. Greece, which is a democracy with a modern constitution and an institutional framework, but has many lessons from the period of dictatorship, unfortunately experiences periods with an effort to curb pluralism and pluralism in information. The pluralism and pluralism in information are the foundation of the democratic culture and cannot be confined either to the benefit of governments, parties and centres of any kind of power. I will start from the recent, and I will go backwards, because it is fresh for public debate and controversy to support the instruments in the pandemic that we called the Change Movement as purely necessary for citizens to be informed, for the sustainability of the instruments and the preservation of jobs, but at the same time we insisted that the rules on the financing and distribution of state advertising should be observed by applying criteria and absolute transparency. The Change Movement for Support, Independence and Emancipation of Instruments proposed that viewing, listening, traffic, visitability, the number of employees and the implementation of the provisions concerning regional instruments, as well as institutional response. But we haven't heard. The Government of New Democracy has insisted on the desirability of shaping relations and reliance on means of communication. Nor did the negative example of the previous SYRIZA government, which had criticised and strongly criticised us for the life and state of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL, a government that was supposed to have started procedures to regulate the TV field that was necessary, but, as soon as it was revealed, sought to manipulate the media and control the information. With anti-constitutional provisions, an oligopoly study of four channels that would facilitate government control, but would serve to the detriment of the citizens' interests, through licensing procedures, which were supposed to be or would lead to the conclusion of contractual donations and receipts. These and many others are part of the broader plan to monitor information with unacceptable policies and methadones, which have removed oxygen from democracy, intoxications that have altered the nature of democracy, but also violations of principles, rules, laws and the Constitution itself. Many people make comparisons to the Maduro regime. I think, however, that if we take account of the different conditions of Europe and Latin America it can be injustice for Venezuela. As has been demonstrated, neither the controlled channels, as the SYRIZA government wanted, nor the ERT government were enough. As evidenced by the case-file, he designed and meditated the establishment of a clean and fully controlled instrument, a SYRIZA, the SYRIZA CHANNEL, who would also play the role of the siege ram towards the rest of the media. The methods and the pursuit of alteration of the contest and the rules for the concession of public frequency, the recruitment of adolescents and the establishment in general, to get a quarter of Florence, Mr. Kalogris, had ever been revealed. Today we are discussing why there is a case-file, statements, complaints and information contained in it, which is, on the one hand, a confirmation of the assessments and complaints made from the outset and, on the other hand, a follow-up to those found in 2006 and, on the other hand, require further investigation in accordance with the procedures laid down. I would remind you that on September 23, 2016, in the communication of the Democratic Incorporation of PASOK - DIMAR, which is "playing" that Mr Theocharopoulos, who was then responsible for parliamentarians, pointed out: "In the competition for television licences the government organised a mere tragedy in obvious and insulting for the country of dishonesty with fundamental institutional, legal, economic, cultural, and even aesthetic coordinates of the modern Western world" - you remember the cells - "with the main aim of controlling and chaining the information. All the time that he has mediated are made public every day in a deafening way, creepy revelations of manners that afflict the country's democratic city and constitute serious criminal offences. Questions are relentless.' For example, "First, Panos Kammenos publicly says that Mr Spirtzi's best man Mr. Kalogris is moving black money. Secondly, the pastures are baptized, with a provocatively overrated value. The competition committee appointed by the Government has checked its declarations and its value as required or confined to the assurances? And the nomine! Did she do her duty properly, or did she perform orders? Third, the tendering committee was required to request additional supporting documents, bank deposits on behalf of the successful tenderer to recognised banks. Fourthly, EUR 127,6 million from the Attica Bank to Kalogrica, 78 of which over the credit line in the twenty-month period of SYRIZA. What do you guarantee with? Grass or public works promises? Has it been caused or threatened with damage to the public?’ And we ended up with all the questions: “Is there a prosecutor in this place?” We have highlighted the need, in other words, to look into in-depth research not only politically but also criminally as a whole. On September 27, 2016, our party spokesman said: "The competition is in the air, both politically and legally. The government has suffered a Vatterlo, because it was her choice to build a businessman through the bank to build a channel." And he concluded: "The government continues to baptize black white, continues to throw the ball on the platform. He made a choice for which he was judged. Both Mr Pappas and Mr Tsipras who defended this procedure in the House were caught with the sprout on the back. Mr Kalogritsa did not fall.' Was Mr Kourublis at the FM Step and other SYRIZA Members who argued that the responsible parties in the procedure had political and criminal responsibilities? I will submit to the minutes the statements made by Mr Kurublis on the existence of political and criminal responsibilities. But let's go to a MP who was writing long before the revelations of September 2016. He says among other things: "The new law on the licensing of television stations is unacceptable not because it does not require rules of control of their operating arrangements, but because the purpose of the law is to repeat, re-establish a relationship of dolphins and takes just like the one that started in '89 from the coup d'état at the time of the New Democracy and Coalition - this is in parentheses of mine - when the politically self-interested and morbid private television system was born." And he continues the same columnist: "It is clear that he has transferred to Mr Tsipras the valuable experience of the then leadership of the single coalition for the time-consuming value that he provides to a party, but not in the democratic city, a generation of new clienteles, value that he can" - "redeem politically in instalments, as was done with the SYRIZA telestars, for example on morning shows". He then changes party, catches the JRC: "Or he can cash financially, as happened with the JRC, which instead of returning his television licence to the public has purchased it in return for a price it has been arranged". And it continues: "The complexity is recycled when someone..." - the channels - "...needs to feel that what is worthy of the political decision." Tsipra - Papa means. "The independent authorities, for example the AACC or in this case the PSE, ultimately, provide this institutional guarantee, that there is no political mediation, and therefore there is no political debt and dependency. The government of SYRIZA is struggling to grant the same four television licences to impose the political memory on those who will acquire them that they must acquire. She is struggling to conclude a new contract of her own will give and receive." And the MP continues: "The Tsipras - Kammenos - Papa is a historic defeat not for the media owners, but for the political system and democracy. It delivers democracy to highlight legislative and executive power in the control of a new oligarchy just four canalarchs. Where are you going with such lawyers, Mr. Pappa?"
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u43	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u44	The same as I said before were written on February 21, 2016 by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative at "KATHMERINA". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But there's something more powerful. One month after this publication, the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman spoke of total opacity, a totalitarian choice of sicily inspiration, which will certainly gradually become a criminal auditor. It has anticipated today's procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u45	Mr. Kegeroglu, please slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u46	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will, of course, submit this report in the Minutes. All of this was verified in the seven months and, of course, in much detail from the statements of the case-file, which they confirm. There have been press releases and philosophies of the Press Government, of the "PUBLIC OF THE STATES", which in a few words describe the procedure of subsistence on the fourth licence and how a canalarch has come to an editor, with the Sunday newspaper "DOCUMENTO". These are the 'SECURITISATION OF CONTRIBUTIONS'. I'll testify to that, too. Finally, I will submit the statements of the Director of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, who spoke in 2016 of a strong political crackdown on the SYRIZA Government. He says the Director of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group: "Prime Minister Tsipras owes an apology for political games with democracy and pluralism", while commenting on Olga Gerovali's statements, DIMAR's President says: "The Government Representative's statement is a black page. Mrs Gerovazis questioned the rule of law, the distinction of powers and said that 250 million would be lost from hospitals and education, which, of course, is not the case and since it was not even in the budget, and our proposal ensures this." This is an absolute populism. Mr. Theocharopoulos notes: "Always we see many issues to be within the institutional diversion" and underlined, closing down: "I am deeply concerned by the government's reactions. What has been said is panic and lack of self-criticism." [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] After all this and the position of most of the SYRIZA's generalists - who are others, but I do not have time to refer to - and I do not have much time to discuss the content of the statements, testimonies and evidence contained in the case-file, which demonstrates that there is more than evidence to commit offences by the former Minister, who fall under the provisions of the Constitution for the establishment of a Preliminary Examination Committee...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u47	Mr. Kegeroglu, please hang up!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u48	Ten seconds, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u49	Shut up, though!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u50	I think that the House should vote 'yes' in the continuation of the examination, that everything should come to light and then that the House should decide on the further procedure, which we do not prejudge today, to end the ongoing attempt to control the means and communication by the current government...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u51	Mr. Kegeroglu, I'll cut you off!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u52	...to strengthen democracy and quality for our country and citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u53	Mr Karathanasopoulos Nikolaos will now be given the floor on behalf of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u54	Thank you very much, Mr President. It is clear that the specific proposal of the thirty Members of the New Democracy for a Special Pre-Association Committee has a multiple target: on the one hand, to change the agenda, namely to cover the criminal responsibilities which the Government has for the management of the pandemic, to cover the escalation of anti-Fraud policy, and the measures it takes to save itself in conditions of the capitalist crisis of business groups, to lead to disorientation of the people and, of course, to an intensity of the bi-party conflict between New Democracy and SYRIZA, which we are monitoring in the late days to escalate and cover behind this two-party stringency the agreement that the New Democracy, SYRIZA, has on the move of change with the strategic choices of the current order with the European Union's policy. This proposal by the thirty Members of the New Republic on the substance of the matter serves both. It also serves New Democracy and SYRIZA, because through this cohort they seek precisely to manipulate popular discontent, to encroach on popular consciences between Scylla and Harvest the capitalist system and its management. Thirdly, they seek to cover up the reality that prevailed and prevailed over time in the media and particularly in the television scenery. They highlight the tree, that is, the relations of the then government of SYRIZA with Kalogrisa and the effort it made through the competition for reordering the landscape in the media and for creating a more friendly environment for the government of SYRIZA - even more friendly - and of course, behind this process, they are trying to cover up the fact that, on the one hand, both of this business group are exploiting - and in the past, SYRIZA and today, the New Democracy for its own aims - and, through this process, hiding the forest. What's the forest? It is that the information is in the hands of large business groups, and it is in the hands of large business groups, and in this you do not disagree either New Democracy, SYRIZA, or the Change Movement, former PASOK. They are business groups which also have other economic activities. They are shipowners, they have refineries, insurance companies, they are active in the tourism sector, they are owners of football teams. So it is clear that through this process the information is in the hands of the major business groups, but also has the suffocating control of information and the adaptation of information to the pursuits, the service of the collective interests of the ruling class. We have a mass media which in essence reproduces the dominant policy, replicates the dominant ideologies that are trying to make the system or even apologetic to the capitalist system. They systematically slander all radicalist tendencies, every struggle that the people, the working class, the youth, systematically slander socialism - communism, distort flagrantly important historical events and historical times. It makes sense, because they will not put their own hands out of their own hands, they will not strike, they will not target capitalist profit as the main responsible of the problems faced by the people and the attacks they receive every day. So we have the scandalous monologue in the promotion of parties over time, the formations, organisations and organisations that support the political system, but above all, they are servants and apologies of this rotten socio-economic system, this barbaric socio-economic system, capitalism. And of course, it is the state ERT, over time, independent of who is a government, and the state ERT of the individual government, that always supports it in a scandalous way. It does not hold any pretext and thus confirms its role as a basic tool for the urban state. The figures last published by the PSE for 2019 are revealing and we will submit them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practices of the Parliament.]] So what do these figures say, and in 2019, when half the year was SYRIZA and half the year New Democracy? They say that, both in 2019 and in 2009, there is evidence in the PSE, even this standard, and not substantial, principle of proportional representation of parties, is systematically being circumvented. On the substance, they are donated, supported and over-protected by the government party at all times, as well as the political opposition party and parties that are useful and play a role, such as the PASOK, always projected above its election rate, or the Independent Greeks, who may not have been then, in 2019, a government party, but had a scandalous super-protection. And vice versa, the JRC, permanently, consistently and systematically has a very low projection, much lower than its election rates. And even during the period from 2015 to December 2019, these percentages of the typical presence of the JRC on television are much lower, much lower than they were historically shaped from 2009 to 2015. Even on this point, therefore, the New Democracy and SYRIZA are very similar to how they dealt with the JRC, and that is a criterion, in our view, which workers must have, how they treat the Communist Party of Greece, the media. The one that's more unexplained than all of them is ERT. In the period of January-April, before the election period we had the successive elections, SYRIZA's projection was 55.4% and CSK 2.9% and the post-election period that the government changed, the New Democracy's projection was 55.4%, exactly the same percentage as SYRIZA, the same projection - and 3.5% of the CSK. Here you are, then, how much you look like the methods you use. In this regard, we say it clearly, the PSE is a washing machine in this situation, it is both incompetent and weak to impose even the formal principle of proportional representation, although it is systematically violated in various ways. We have now found the new vagina, using journalists commentators, two on each panel, which is in the hours and which express one side, the government, and the other on the Officerial Opposition. This does not measure or measure what contents television, information and news actually have. So we say it clearly that through this process, of course, the PSE is the expression of this inter-party consensus, all three parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA and Change Movement in this composition, as they participated in the constitutional review to make the PSE even more dependent on the government majority, changing the majority of the appointments of the PSE members by reducing it more by bringing it closer to the respective government majority. And, of course, there are also the individual pursuits of the business interests that they have in their hands of the media and the conflict, each time, with the respective government, even through interlocutory procedures. And, of course, the question that is wrong is who controls who, the media government, companies or companies government and the media? Of course, here, let me comment, because the speaker of the Change Movement was mentioned before, trying to put the JRC in the forefront of these undocumented relationships between the civil management parties for the media, we say that the transfer of the KRC's, '902', television and radio, took place under all legal conditions and was thoroughly checked, in fact, so that there were no shadows. So this situation is the time-consuming effect of all governments. SYRIZA, when it was a government, attempted to redistribute the pie, in conditions of reorders due to the economic crisis of the business groups that had in their hands media, to form an even more favourable environment for its government, a more friendly attitude towards the channels, and of course also exploited business patterns as front, one more, during the auction. And, of course, the media are manipulated, it is obvious, they are manipulated by the ruling order, by economic interests and the pursuit of capital. What is confirmed by the case-file, but not only, are the enormous political responsibilities, both of the current government and of the former but also of SYRIZA - the government of SYRIZA - but also of the then competent Minister of Nikos Pappas. In our view, however, there are no indications of criminal responsibilities and therefore of the setting up of a Special Pre-Investigative Committee. In other words, we do not agree with the New Democracy proposal for it. We would discuss the possibility of setting up an Inquiry Committee to investigate the overall picture and situation in the media, particularly in television, political involvement and possible underground routes and black money that may exist between the media operators and control and the governments concerned. Why, though, did the New Democracy choose this option? We say it clearly to cover up the situation. After all, we have rich experience of all the previous pre-review committees and committees of inquiry, covering the causes, the problems, the issues, to exacerbate the hollowness of the party confrontation between the New Democracy and SYRIZA, to manipulate and cover the common strategic options they have. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two words and I shall conclude, Mr President. So the JRC, first of all, in the Constitutional Review, had called for the law on the responsibility of ministers to be abolished. SYRIZA denied it, and the New Democracy, and the Change Movement. Special treatment remains. The JRC will not become a laundry machine for dismantling the responsibilities, whatever the responsibilities are. He won't consent to manipulation and cover-up. It will not legalise disorientation processes. We shall follow the same approach as the previous pre-review committees. In the vote we will vote'residents' on the proposal for a New Democracy Law to set up a Special Pre-review Committee. Thank you very much, Mr President, for tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u55	My colleague has the floor from the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliou Villardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u56	Mr Colleague, however, the projection of the Greek Solution must be 0.005%, somewhere there. It's good! Ladies and gentlemen, first of all, we all understand that there is a matter of micro-political conflict between the SYRIZA on the one hand and the New Democracy on the other hand, the two parties of the troika, which have been subjected to the country, which has imposed continuous memorials, which agree with the major ones, but are obviously confronted for impression and covert reasons. Example of this is the recent scandalous agreement on the Greek that was passed by both parties, together with its third troika, the Change Movement, with a counterparty of the Greek State and of the GOD, a company based in Luxembourg and with a capital of EUR 36,000, without even a deposit from the investor. In addition, New Democracy brings the issue to the House at a time when Greece's finances are moving from evil to worse, where the country remains "locked" to the detriment of both the economy and the health of the Greeks, which the Prespecies Agreement violates against us, which Turkey is becoming increasingly aggressive and which Greece is massively populated by illegal immigrants. An example here is an investigation that we will submit its first pages in the Minutes - I will submit them all together - on the NGO register, where, apart from having only twenty-nine registered, some of them have incomplete data based on a closed garage. In addition, unregistered NGOs shall be granted exceptional authorisations for access to hot spots. There are also additional NGOs from the former Republic to participate in the ESTIA programme. As there is also another NGO charging EUR 290,000 for six months at a Arcadia mountain hotel in forty immigrants with an English course and at a cost of 1,200 euros per person, as if it were a doctorate. Finally, there are NGOs that, through the ESTIA programme, over a year and a half, receive EUR 6.2 million for a thousand sixty-sixteen immigrants. If we assume here that the apartments are shared by five people, the rent would be of the order of 1,200 euros monthly, as a maisonette in Kifisia. Scandals on scandals, then! So we are reasonably wondering if the government just wants to turn people's attention to other issues. If this is a political theatre aimed at misleading the Greeks. On the other hand, we as Greek Solution have tabled a request for the investigation of the Prespecies Agreement calling for signatures of twenty MPs, in addition to our ten members, to come to Parliament, at least the Macedonians who are obliged to do so, defending their territory and history, their legacy must be better inherited to their children, or at least as they have received from their ancestors who have literally defended it with their blood. We have also asked for a committee of inquiry to investigate the crime of PSI and the Memorandums of 2010-2015 with no response, at least in the first half of 2015, where according to various statements by officials of the European Union and not only the Greeks were damaged with EUR 100 billion, EUR 80 billion up to EUR 200 billion, Mr. Regling said, EUR 200 billion, EUR 86 billion, EUR 86 billion, and so on, as we will present in the Minutes. So at least EUR 100 billion, as New Democracy supports on the 2018 TV spot, is a huge amount that the President of Mera25 is against, but he certainly knows his responsibilities for at least not imposing capital controls. So for the closure of the banks, where over EUR 60 billion were lost, including deferred tax, together with the banks were left behind. We continue to pay them, as with the announced increase in Piraeus's capital, with the great commissions they charge, with the consequences of red loans and the new bankruptcy law. Capital control was self-evident since it had decided to collide with creditors, with Germany better, although we are very doubtful. While the European Central Bank clearly acted illegally by closing the banks, it should have known it by taking action. It is also a scandal that the Court of Justice of the European Union has refused access to a document from the European Central Bank, which supports its decision to freeze vital funding to Greek banks in 2015, as we will be tabling in the Minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, the investigation of these crimes that have cost Greece, firstly, national sovereignty and not only in the case of Macedonia, having damaged dozens of companies in northern Greece very seriously, secondly, tens of billions of euros added to the country's unsustainable debt, contributing to the launching of private debt and the planned change in ownership of our country, and thirdly, the death of tens of our fellow citizens in Mati - three very serious crimes - is an obligation for all of us. In this regard, the New Democracy MPs who govern the country, in which case they have the overwhelmingly greater responsibility, must know that they are not responsible for their party and the Prime Minister, but for the Greek citizens who voted for them. They are therefore obliged to support our proposals if they do not want to be charged with covering. Not to mislead citizens with political theatres, such as in the case of Mr Papagelopoulos or today, which are actually about justice and not Parliament. In fact, as far as Mr Pappas is concerned, there have been no complaints, so that criminal offences may be committed to justice. Continuing, there are many other cases that are literally lost in government drawers and are not discussed at all. The main of which is the issue of German allowances of over EUR 300 billion, which is documented by Germany, and we will never forget to repeat it again. Furthermore, it is the 'SIEMENS' scandal where Mr Valyrakis said - we will put it in the Minutes - among other things: 'The SIEMENS case started as a corruption scandal and evolved into a covert scandal'. "The political system has also proved incapable of self-clearing and I think that it will pursue us until we know what has happened." "Musics amounted to 10% of contracts; an 8% share of state officials and state officials of the state and of the ECO; 2% went to the parties." Isn't that all scandals? Shouldn't they be investigated? In addition, we have the "NOVARTIS" scandals, the Lagard list, Paradise Papers or the Spanish blog in the prosecutions of the TIAD, which we will testify in the Minutes. We also have a violation of freedom of information in practice, since according to international media it is controlled by the government of about 80%, by the current government, such as every government at any time. How's he doing? It is simply by invoking the pandemic in which, on the one hand, it distributes huge sums for advertising on the other, on the other, it allows them to delay payments for universal licences, reduces the advance or subsidise them like the ARGOS Agency. How much have all this cost the Greeks? Approximately EUR 100 million. Another 100 million euros! However, our firm position on the substance of the matter is that this kind of criminal responsibility, since there is, of course, evidence and appeals, is a matter of justice, which must be independent of legislative and executive power, once again recalling the issue of the Constitutional Court which Greece is one of the few countries on the planet that it does not have. In our view, it is shameful for the country of democracy, and it is also a disgrace where our governments have made its riches multitude and endowed homeland with corruption, strife and mismanagement of its finances. We will close, repeating that the MPs are not responsible for their party and Prime Minister, but for the Greek citizens who voted for them, whom they must respect and protect with all their powers. The Greek citizens alone must be accountable, and they must act in the interest of our country and our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u57	Given that Mr Pappas has chosen to speak some time later, we will be on the list of speakers. I read the first five colleagues, who are almost all in the Chamber, in order to be ready. It is Mr. Keletsis, Mr. Paulakis, Mrs. Papadimitriou, Mrs. Liikolis and Mr. Markopoulos. There will be a little tolerance for you, for the speakers too. Mr. Keletsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I have really listened very carefully to Mr Janakopoulos' speech in order to reach a conclusion on what the line is, the argument of the Civilian Opposition Party in this debate. The political line, the defensive line, the legal line. I didn't draw any conclusions, I have to say. Mr Janakopoulos referred, first of all, to an absent - as he said - government. Yes, the government is absent from the present procedure because this imposes the Constitution itself on Article 86 to be absent. What does the Constitution say in Article 86(1)? Only the House shall have the power to prosecute those who are or have been members of government, ministers or State Secretarys for criminal offences which they have committed in the performance of their duties. So the government is loyal to the Constitution, consistent with its permanent political position, that it does not interfere with what is not about executive power, but is exclusively the competence of legislative power and Parliament. Another argument has been made that the government is in panic and that is why it is bringing this debate to the House today and that is the subject. But he forgets how the litigation came to the House and why he opened this matter in the House. For mere fact that the prosecutor of the Ice Bay sent a case-file to the House and the House among its excellent tasks has what he is doing today, namely non-legislative work, and he must, in accordance with Article 86 of the Constitution, examine the basis for the offences allegedly committed by a former Minister and decide whether or not to set up a Preliminary Examination Committee. So at this point we are fully and unsatisfactoryly observing the Constitution. The panic is not in the government, the panic is probably in SYRIZA, who sees through this process that there is a risk that a government official of SYRIZA will be given responsibility and that the whole policy of the SYRIZA government at the time of the media and control of information and other joints of power should be demonstrated. It has also been said that the government wants to get back, that it is avenged for the attitude of SYRIZA in relation to the media and that it has put order allegedly on the issue of permits, canalarchs and all this. However, SYRIZA forgets that the tender he has produced for the allocation of television licences has been cancelled as unconstitutional by Decision 95/2017 of the Council of State. It was also heard by Mr Jianakopoulos that we now hear witnesses unreliable, Mr Kalogritsa, whom we considered unreliable, and Mr Tobra, who called for Mr Kalogradas. But who's Mr. Tobras and what's the case for Mr. Tobra? It says, therefore, that it was Tobras who brought together the two families of Huri and Kalogrica and, on the initiative of the initiative he took on the wish of the Huri brothers, with whom he has long been linked, to participate in this competition for television licences, a desire to satisfy him and was indicated by a higher government level for co-operation by Mr. Kalogritsas. So Mr. Tobras is a person who has been designated by a government senior government official of SYRIZA to bring together the two Huri and Kalogrica families in order to set up a new station that will support the SYRIZA government. [[The President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARALABOS Athanasios, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr HARRAMPOS Athanasou.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So many others refer to this penal case, which has been sent to Parliament. At least ten times Mr Pappa's name refers very specifically to the case-file. It refers to imprisonment, memos, testimonial statements. And what does SYRIZA say? He tells us to ignore all this, close our ears in everything that's heard, close our eyes to everything in the file and not investigate the case, abstain. Is that SYRIZA's proposal? To abstain? But then we're breaking duty. The prosecutor, according to the Constitution, sent the file to the parliament. We have to investigate it. How are we going to abstain? What are we going to give Greek society, which is distrustful in any case, if we do so? Can we cover the case, gentlemen of SYRIZA? No, we have to investigate her. Since Mr Pappa's name has been mentioned so many times in the case-file and is linked to criminal offences, we must investigate it. It was even said or left to be understood by Mr Tzanakopoulos that these accusations, because they come from unreliable individuals, are unfounded. Since it is unfounded, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, why did you not use Rule 155 of the Rules of Procedure, which gives you, in paragraphs 2 and 3, the opportunity, within seven days of submitting the proposal, to refer to the Special Council, which is composed of three highest judges, who will give an opinion on the proportionality of the charge? You were able to do so, it was at your discretion, you have their thirty Members, why don't you, if you think that this is unfounded? You tell us, 'we will go to the Council and what the judges decide'. And we would be obliged to make a decision on this matter as a House, as a plenary, and to end it there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u59	Completely, Mr. Colleague, you've reached eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u60	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we do not even have discretion, ladies and gentlemen, we do not. We owe the evidence which has come to us and which has been included in the case-file and which has come to us according to the Constitution from the Prosecutor of the Ice Arena, to examine them. This must also be done by the committee responsible for preliminary examination, which must be set up. I therefore propose that the New Democracy proposal be voted on. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u61	Mr Paul Paulakis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I had a lot of thoughts, but, finally, I will speak out of text. It's obvious, Mr. Pleari, that you have an election plan by autumn. You'll be closing up two years and something in the government and leaving hunted. It's the hopeless effort you've been doing, because for the past month and a half the record of your success in dealing with the pandemic, the whole middle layer support account, the whole development account has collapsed. And it has collapsed, because you are the representatives of the richest 5% of Greek society, which has thrown an incredible party over a year and a half. Through your political decisions he tries to close wounds of the past and eats money. This thing the people who supported you have understood it, and that's why it turns your back. And you feel it, you see it, and as you walk on the road. So what's your political plan now? To proceed to a pre-examination committee for a preconceived SYRIZA executive, not by accident, because you implement a Marinaki mandate. Because that's what's going on here. You will never forgive - and the canalarchs and the few-growers won't forgive - that Nikos Papas, Leuteris Kretsos, Alexis Tsipras, the SYRIZA government made them pay for the public good of frequencies, which they had for twenty-five years as if they were a field that they had inherited from their grandfather. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You set up a mechanism, a complication, and you don't blush. You are not ashamed to accuse us of struggling, the ones who organized a system of bankers, oligarchs, canalarchs with your staff and a large part of the Signal PASOK, which ruled and bankrupt the country in 2009. Because that's what you did. You put us in the memorials, smashed a society, broke the social contract of the previous period, and that's why the SYRIZA government came out. And we labored, blood and tears took the country out of the memorials, with successes and mistakes, with retreat and patience, with compromises, with whatever you want. But we did it. And we, best man, didn't steal. And you know that very well, because the Pope stays in the rent, and I was forced, as Minister, to get a loan of EUR 100,000 so that I could support my family for a situation in which I was Minister. And tell me one of those who spent thirty years going bankrupt the country, who would do the same thing. And you dare say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u63	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u64	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u65	Marcopolus, you're the one that's tickling! And you dare say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u66	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u67	What happened, Marcopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u68	Wait a minute, Mr. Polakis. Please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u69	Mr President, you are imposing order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt. And you, Mr. Polakis, please don't hit your hand on the seat.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u71	I can't. He's boiling my blood and I'm hitting it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u72	Be calm.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u73	I'm calm. Don't you see me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u74	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u75	So we will never forgive the Canadians for having them pay. Aren't you the ones who just got out, in the six months up, abolished the names of the shares, abolished the obligation to submit 'wherein', which you did the favor for them? And now you're coming to avenge yourself, with a pre-determined Pre-Adjudgment Committee, to go to the elections in the autumn with SYRIZA scandals. I'll tell you what scandals are and what corruption and complexity are, because courtesy is, in fact, ridiculous, not standing in any court. You're gonna make a fuss to go to elections. You know that it's not going to work out, like it's not going to come out with the previous prosecution, the other thorn you had with Papagelopoulos. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, corruption and complexity have been the one who has given over 4 to 5 billion in overpriced direct assignments for over a year and a half. Mrs. Nicholas and last night at a minimarket, she gave 145,000. If I start talking now, I'll finish next year. Corruption and complicity is the one who tried to do the "scotch-of-age" and took it back running. Corruption and complexity are the one who said that teleworking is free of charge and paid for 2,000,000 - that is, Keramemo - and, at the same time, gave the personal data of one and a half million households north of the companies traded through the Internet. Corruption and complexity are the one who gives 6,000 euros for legal services - Mr Metarakis - to tell him how he will build the contracts in the housing structures of refugees - migrants when he should not give more than 200,000. Corruption and complexity are the one who announces 510,000,000 contest for new identities and because he doesn't find them in the shower, he doesn't do it yet. Corruption and complexity have been provided to hospitals overpriced by four and five times over various sanitary regions, such as the 6th RCD, such as the 7th RCD in Crete, at the same time as yesterday were seven hundred and thirty-five of which permeated out of the ICM. The hundreds out of the ICU! Corruption and complication have one who tolerates a member of the Committee of Logistics to say that 20% to die outside of the ICM is not much of a percentage. This is corruption and complications. This is what you have set up and implemented. And the world has already started to turn your back on you. Corruption and complexity are all these judicial cases. Mr Keletsis said earlier, 'Would we not get them?' We've done it, Mr. Keletsi. I've been to my boogravure for the ERIC, for 'NOVARTIS'. This Mr. Binos, what's his name, Bini, who's at the National Transparency Authority, what's he been doing a year and a half? It cuts fines only those who circulate outside, to apply the horizontal inefficient lockdown! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Where is the completion of all these files, which I took to them with my own hands, which were tens and hundreds of millions of euros from the CEDEFOP? Also, why is it not that you and NoVARTIS have come out? Mr. Kegeroglu came out, and what would he say? Kalogerica's attorney is Loverdos, who's the only one who's been prosecuted so far. What about the persecution of Mr. Loverdos on "NOVARTIS"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u76	Finish it, Mr. Polakis. You've been in eight minutes. It won't be longer than eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u77	And the previous speaker spoke more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u78	Oh, no. Time will be observed. All colleagues are equal and equal here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u79	So what else would Mr. Kegeroglu say? So where is the investigation of these court cases? Every day for a year and a half, we have been making, with evidence, not in general and vaguely, how public money is dispersed. And of course, because we do not see any prosecutors being moved, such as the one who killed in the name of the Poppa and sent it here to investigate it, we will. We will do so, starting with Mrs Nicholas, who has so much 'dana' with direct assignments, which does not have legal immunity, because at some point this food must be stopped.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u80	Finish it, Mr. Polakis. You've been in nine minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u81	I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u82	We all have to watch the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u83	But don't interrupt me anymore. We're not going to keep you in this process. And to know very well that nothing of what you do today will not be forgotten. It is all recorded and it is clear that responsibilities will be sought when the time comes, because it cannot be tolerated an vice mayor in Carditsa, "blue" vice mayor, "daughtering" like a black marketer of the Occupation in her home, canned, milk, oil and pasta sent by the people for the flooders of Carditsa.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u84	That will be said, Mr Polakis. You've been in ten minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u85	They rule us today. You guys show us with your finger...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u86	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u87	...and you dare, the line...... ...to speak to us about corruption and complication. Here we will be to talk and be sure that the "second time left" will be very different from the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, could I have the floor on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u89	Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u90	I would like to make something clear, Mr President, otherwise I would not take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u91	Tell us for a minute what the staff are made up of.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u92	Wait a minute. I am not going to answer Mr. Polakis, who in the first seconds he went out and said that the person responsible for derailing the country is not the life and state of government 2004-2009, but the government of 2010, in which the crisis was "dashed"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u93	This is a criticism. It's a crisis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u94	... at the same time that she sits with her first Minister of State in the same chairs. Thank you and Karamanlis. Thank you and Raguss. Get out of there!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u95	Mrs Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor. Here, Mrs Papadimitriou, you have the floor and I urge you to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, an issue that was very topical in the second half of 2016 was n.4339/2015, the well-known Pappa law, with which a competition was opened for the granting of television licences in Greece. The above law, which provided for the transfer of the above powers to the Minister of State, was found to be unconstitutional by the Council of State, as this provision was contrary to Article 15 of the Constitution, which provides for the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council for the issue of licences. This constitutional provision is of particular importance to the country's political and social progress, as it ensures the objective and equal transmission of information and news. This, judged by the independent justice, circumventing the Constitution by the previous government demonstrates in the most persuasive way what the government, which operated counter-institutionally, is. Today, the National Representation is called, in accordance with the relevant provisions and after the transfer of the case-file by the Ministry of Justice and in the context of our parliamentary obligations, to determine whether there is sufficient evidence of the execution of any offences by the former Minister of State, Mr. Nikos Papapas, in the performance of his duties and if so, to decide to set up a Special Committee to investigate the execution of the following offences: firstly, the offence of the donation of a political official against a serial and continuity, that is to say Article 159 of the Criminal Code, and secondly, the violation of a duty which is to be carried out on a serial and consistent basis, that is to say Article 259 of the Criminal Code. The provision of Article 159 shall be standardised as a distinguished form of donation to the extent of a felony which concerns bodies of legislative, executive or self-government, where it is intended to influence persons having such powers in order to exercise them in a particular way or to omit their exercise. Furthermore, in order to fulfil the objective and subjective status of Article 259 of the Criminal Code, a breach of a duty is required, an intention of the perpetrator and a purpose of providing him or another illegal material or moral benefit, or of harming the State or someone else, without even requiring the achievement of that objective. In this case, and since the evaluation of the evidence so far - and I mention, for example, Mr Kalogris, the e-mails in the case-file - there is at least sufficient indication in relation to the former Minister of State, Mr. Nicos Pappas, of the following facts: Firstly, that Mr Kalogratissa was asked to participate in the tender in order to take the same channel of licences. Secondly, that the company ‘CCC’ was requested to give a company of Mr. Kalogritsa the sum of EUR 3 million for the issue of a guarantee letter for participation in the tender. Thirdly, that Mr Kalograitsas participated in the tender by late deposit of the guarantee letter. Fourthly, that Mr. Kalogritsas participated in the tender without showing that he had the money to participate. Fifth, that he was declared a successful man, although in his file it appeared that he did not have the money he needed. Sixthly, that following the cancellation of the tender and the repayment of the sum of 3 million, Mr Kalogrisa was asked to give this money to issue the pro-government newspaper 'DOCUMENTO' and then to transfer its assets to Mr Vaxvanis, without for this transaction any price paid for it. And seventhly, that Mr Marinakis was asked to give Mr. Kalogrisa the sum of EUR 20.5 million for the first instalment of the licence, as well as Mr. Nearmenias to give 51% of his television medium to Mr. Kalogrisa to obtain a channel. These are the facts arising from the case-file. So, ladies and gentlemen, from the above, it is our parliamentary duty to investigate the matter further. We are now called National Representation to decide on the establishment of the Special Committee alone, doing our duty with the sole advisor our conscience and confronting each other with our principles and values. And then, if the committee is set up, it will examine, evaluate and assess, always with institutional guarantees and, above all, with full respect for the presumption of innocence, the existence of any responsibilities. There must be no shadow for anyone in this case. We must help all the Members to shine the truth, because that is how a rule of law works, because that is how we serve democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs Papadimitriou, and especially for keeping time. From the Change Movement, Mrs. Evangelia Likoulelis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, I too would like to see the nine-minute period that Mr Paulakis has had.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u99	Okay, don't make setback, you'll have a comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating whether or not we will vote on the proposal by the Members of the House to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination to see whether or not the former Minister of State Nikos Papapas is involved in an outstanding case that came from the prosecutor of the Ice Bay. Mr. Papapas is alleged to have been involved in the offences of the bribery of a political official who is currently stricken and violated by the most specific analyses made within the reasoning of the MPs bearing the proposal. In simple terms, what happens at the core of the case is that Mr. Papapa is attributed the method of obtaining a pan-Hellenic channel in the sphere of influence of SYRIZA. That's the point. That is what we are talking about today, with simple words and sturdy words. The period, of course, for which Mr Pappas is controlled is not a political period. It is a time when SYRIZA, relatively new to the country's governance then, was trying to control the joints of power. He said so later, with his later known word, the former Prime Minister, namely, "the infamous competition was set at the time to obtain television licences for private channels". I would even remind those who like to go back to history - I like it very much - how the owners of the channels were literally closed down in a cage at the time - remember the images, of course, you remember the satars then - in order to demonstrate the supposed determination of the government at that time, in a well-known performance that would envy her and the late Euthyni Spatharis "SYRIZA against the cursed serpent". He was also a legend, but he didn't have a Happy end too, a hope he didn't come. However, like all the representations that are bad, ladies and gentlemen, the public is quickly beginning to disapprove them, like the theatrins, was briefly followed by the decision - a oppressor of the S.H.E., who annulled the whole process. So we still have to ask ourselves what exactly happened, questions which also concern the Greek people today, with protagonists, on the one hand, Mr Nikos Papapas and the government to which he was a member, on the other hand Mr Kalogritsa, a willing businessman on the other, a company of United Arab Emirates interests. An incredible triangle of corruption, with serious questions, which need answers. In addition to what we are saying here, the various forms of representation, and also the fact that the citizens are asking themselves: has there really been a bribery of a political official, in this case of Mr Papapas, the first-class minister and the right hand of Mr Tsipras? Was there or not there? Is it true or is it a lie? Citizens ask: With Mr Papapa being involved in the competition, has this man severely affected free competition and transparency of the procedure? Really or is it a lie? Citizens ask: did Mr. Papapas, then responsible for the media Minister, violate the conditions of the competition? Really or is it a lie? Citizens ask: Was there a false statement about the documents and false evidence given to Mr Kalogratsa about participating in the tender? Really or is it a lie? Citizens ask: Was there really a breach of personal secrecy by Mr Papapas from his post, that is, has he leaked to third-party classified information relating to the contest of licences? Really or is it a lie? Is it true that when the channel did not take place, the 3 million euros were channelled into another media, a form this time? Really or is it a lie? The political system, ladies and gentlemen, must respond to these truths or these lies. The political system must seek the truth and, of course, must be staggered, if it finds out that this has been done, and of course it must take away all the protagonists. Since 2016, we have been talking about this. We then spoke of a megalotrague of obvious, insulting, in disparity with fundamental institutional, economic, cultural and aesthetic coordinates of the culture. We did so then - and our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative told you - will hear them with the spokesman, who was really saying what was going to happen, because we saw it. But, ladies and gentlemen, it was not just us. Today we have at the headquarters of the Officerial Vice-President - to see and see how the political system of truth and lie is going - the Parliamentary spokesman at the time of a schizophrenic type of schizophrenic inspiration option, he was talking about mafia, with surely becoming a criminal auditor! Wasn't Mr. Raguss playing Lotto? So here's where he caught it right away. Whatever he said back then, that's where it happened now! In fact, he reported it in the public speech with a series of newspapers, ladies and gentlemen, in electronic newspapers, in the newspaper "TO VIMA". [[At this point, the honourable Member, Evangelia Liakoulis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] In fact, he said that "we give this and take it under the table, because channel licenses are public property and not individual property of any businessman, Greek or foreign, Mr. Tsipras, Kammenos and Pappas". They were named after Mr. Raguss! Yannis, you left again when I talk. So these were said by the parliamentary representative of today's Officerial Response, who breaks her clothes and cuts off, ladies and gentlemen, for what? To cover up the truth? What is the establishment of a Special Committee, after all, for us lawyers? Isn't that plenty of light on everything? Isn't it not to shed light where there isn't or where we think there are shadows? Is it not really undemocratic to come to the Step of the House today, and indeed to say 'I do not want the committee to be set up', 'I do not want any more light', when there are Members who talk about 'White House' and 'White Porscha' and how many more? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I do not want to connect them as a member of the Committee of Inquiry - and I conclude, Mr President - with the previous ones, what we have lived in the previous Committee of Inquiry, with the Papagelopoulos case and all that has been heard and very much resemble my ears and very much show me the same in my eyes. Ladies and gentlemen, if we want to take a step forward and not see in and out of this Chamber, democracy by licking its wounds, we must be bold, but we must also be honest. "The dominances honor the first," they say in my homeland. That is why those of us who really want to take the step forward and move forward will leave all those practices and tactics that remind other times behind behind. We will boldly proceed with democracy and justice, and we will finally trust it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, at least, we, the great democratic party which guaranteed the continuity of the country, sat under the bar, Mr Polakis, for talking about the Significant PASOK, which Mr Ragus - I assure you from within - served with absolute faith, as he served all the next until he arrived on this route to you. So we sat down with national devotion and lifted the bar under the shoulders, and while they were rubbing the bones for a burden that didn't belong to us, we were there. And when you - from here and there - pulled the grenade from the grenade and left it in our hand, we again kept it, for the country. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] This is the great democratic party, the guardian of democracy and ideas. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, too. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Plumis, has been asked for the floor. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u102	Wait a minute, Mr. President. I asked for the floor because we do not want to let it go like this. At the end of his speech Mr. Paulakis referred to this fact by describing it as a 'broadcasting of donation and black and white-fashionedism'. Of course, from Mr Polakis, I do not expect him to come here to withdraw, which has offended an entire historic party and the Greeks who vote on this whole party here. Mr. Polakis, we are dealing with him as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u103	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u104	Mr. Colleague, don't interrupt. It's none of your business. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u105	As historically mentioned in Aesop, when the pig caused the lion to fight and accepted by the saying, the pig was wrapped in the mud to prepare to fight. Seeing his lion says 'Let it go'. We are not dealing with the insults of Mr Polakis. We know he won't recall. We know that's it. In a few hours' time, however, the Stepma can be taken by the Chief of Police and it is obliged to answer whether Mr Polakis' phrase is the order of the New Democracy, the order of domination and black and white-rooted, expresses SYRIZA! And finally, you need to know that from 3% once you got a percentage that New Democracy takes in the bad times, you need to understand that neither threats are tolerated nor second-time, as you say, we tolerate and finally find out that you are the party that has harmed most of all democracy and this place in the four years of your mismanagement!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, on personal occasions!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Polakis, wait a minute. If that's the case... [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Wait a minute, let's get this over with!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u108	Can you, ladies and gentlemen, please do not interrupt? Mr. Polakis, it makes sense to have a tension, and at the edge of the speech you may have exceeded the limit. I would therefore ask you to agree that these expressions should be deleted from the Minutes, which do not match our parliamentary customs. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u109	I take the floor on staff to answer Mr Ploris. Listen, Mr. Pylori: Pigs were the ones who as today sixty nine years ago executed Nikos Belogannis and his companions, announcing it four - five hours ago and doing the execution on Sunday. Pigs and pigs are the ones who, in their youth, participated in the marches of the Golden Dawn, just like you and now you are being played by a democrat. Obviously, I do not recall anything at all, because history has recorded on which side of the river the two historically present in Greece since its liberation in 1821-1828. There is the production of "Cologne" and "Makryianni", the prolongation of "Belochiotidas", the procuration of the Polytechnic and the prototypes. There is the fact that the co-workers and the "Cholacoglou" of the Occupation and the Germans have emerged from the wolf of the seven-year-olds, and these two camps have been colluding so far in the Greek society. You have another voice, but we have another voice. That's the answer!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u110	Wait a minute, Mr. Polakis, don't leave! Why are you leaving? Listen! Good, leaving the House is at his expense, meaning he can't face truths. I would therefore say here, since Mr Paulakis violated Rule 66 of the Rules of Procedure - he spoke out of the matter - that the President may also use paragraph 2 of the 66 paragraph and speak out of the matter and for an additional reason, that he may be a President of Parliament, but since the matter is not on the agenda, the President will not cease to be a member of a party as well in this particular case of the New Democracy. So I have to say in response to what Mr Paulakis said before I give you the floor again, Mr Plory, that it is the New Democracy which has had the consequences of a civil war. It is the New Democracy that took the right decisions for the country in the past and put the country in the European Union and is already in the circle of democratic countries. It has kept the principles of enlightenment intact and you must not forget these. Its leaders fought as few of the dictatorships and the first after the Post-Military Constitution of the National Assembly of Constantine Karamanlis is what established the rule of law. In 2012 and 2014, in the critical years, it is the party that kept the country in the Eurozone and in the European Union and today with the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis manages all crises, national, external risks, coronary, diseases and others in the best way, and we look with confidence tomorrow. So you must be careful when talking about this great democratic party. That's all. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please, if I have asked that these phrases be deleted from the Minutes, deleted from the Minutes. Mr. Plori, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, we have directed precisely because we know the spirit of Mr Polakis and you see the bizarre speech: in 2021 they want to separate the Greek people! Let's go historically see what every party has done here and see that this party, as you quite rightly said, has set the foundations for us to have the democracy we have at this time. We did not expect Mr Polakis to withdraw and I am surprised that I mentioned the example of a lion with the pig and Mr Paulakis recognised himself in the pig and not the lion. I did not say who each is, I said the example of a lion with a pig, and Mr Paulakis felt that he was affected and has the role of the pig. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] What we have said and insisted, however, is that when Mr Tsipras comes here, the Honourable Chief of Officership or if he does not come, when Mr Ragus comes as a parliamentary representative, they should say whether he expresses SYRIZA that the New Democracy is the donation of dolphins and black and white-tailers. You must finally take responsibility for what you say! If he expresses you, say it! If it does not express you, say that this Member is insulting you! In fact, however, today Parliamentary Representative is Mr. Paulakis and Head of SYRIZA, Mr. Janakopoulos. They're here today to express SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u112	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u113	Mrs Barka, please, stop interfering with this look in particular. The next speaker is Mr Dimitris Markopoulos from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Marcopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u114	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I too will take the floor from where we left him. Mr Tsipras needs to be placed on whether SYRIZA is ultimately a pedestrian party or a Parliament. Clearly, what they've heard is like reading Kufontina's proclamation. Is that possible? Is that possible? In the 21st century when we live some have 20th-century reports? Are you going to take the place out of the modern problems of pandemic and crisis? All right, we've heard the little bit of jokes, Mr. Polakis as Nikos Xanthopoulou, invoking the big financial difficulties and the loan he got from the Bank of Attica to do so, we don't know what he might have done with his election campaign. And tell him that the simple household in the years of 2016, 2017, 2018 did not have access to bank lending. The small and medium-sized businessman could not do what Mr. Paulakis did through the acquaintances and the well-known Bank of Attica. And I live here. We saw Mr. Janakopoulos. Finally, it seems that the journalistic information that they were talking about a certain dimension of opinion with Mr Papapas is probably correct. A little "shopper" passed Mr. Pappa. We have not heard much about the case, more about a general political misery and a number of threats - Mr Paulakis said that - 'when we come, we will be accountable'. That was the decoding of what Mr. Janakopoulos said. He also talked about a prank. I would remind Mr Janakopoulos, who was even called by a reserve, as he is a party secretary, this. I don't know. I don't see Mr. Scorlets anywhere here today. I don't see Mr. Skourletis, maybe there's some inner part of them, we'll see them in the future. He talked about a prank. Farsa, do you know what it was? The competition for television licenses. That was a big prank! A prank, indeed, was placed and justice was placed at the highest possible level, a prank hiding media manipulation. You brought in, I remember, and the University of Florence to verify the procedures. You know, because I like the story, I'll remind you that Florence was Machiavelli's homeland. Perhaps even in the case of "Kalogiza" some might have worked "makiavels". We have heard more cute things, such as the'state' Mitsotakis, which Mr Janakopoulos said. "State Mitsotakis", so how? By freelance? With the media operating with an ERT of pluralism, no matter how much you want to present it differently? So, Cachachas and Akryvopoulou what was it? They were objective journalists, weren't they? So, what we heard in the previous pre-review committee, in which I was involved, by prominent judges for pressure, what was it? So here, it seems that the two cases, the Papaggelopoulos case and the Kalogritsa case are being cut apart. One was control over judiciary and the other was attempting to travel the media. But despite all the above, we're not like you. The New Democracy is not going to play games at the expense of its political opponents. It is FOLLI FOLLIE that we must demonstrate what we must say and stress. We felt there that the evidence was not sufficient, and we decided not to proceed with the proceedings. But this is not the way you want to present them. There are e-mails here, there are witnesses. There's not only Mr. Kalogris, but witnesses. There are transfers here. You're the ones who told us that you're every line of the Constitution, don't you want to discuss all this? Don't you want them to come to the light? In fact, I'll say something else. You are causing a political earthquake with "quarklers" with people who even today do not know about Greek society. You want, you do not want, here there are surnamed complaints and facts that need to be investigated. Do you want us to be inactive in all this? I have to make it clear that our resignation is not governed by vengeful tendencies and reinsurance. You should also be aware that it was not easy for us to proceed with the setting up of a new preliminary committee. And that's because it's not in the nature of our own political DNA. Besides, others are the first to teach in the Roman-type males to set up politically. The word 'pogrom' is not in our political phrase. Look! You have plenty of them, and they will probably enlighten you on these issues. However, it is in no way our political choice for ostrichism. We cannot blind ourselves to attempting a television coup, which has been disapproved, I repeat, by the Council of State and we cannot close our eyes to the evidence. I, Mr Pappa, consider the whole process to be a great opportunity for you and should seek it. Do you want a shadow deceived on you? Besides, no citizen in this country would want that for himself, since he would be sure of his innocence. I don't know if you're sure and how you feel. If anyone's sure, why wouldn't they want everything to come to the light? I therefore consider it an opportunity for Mr Pappas to clean up his name with the 'counse' of the pre-review committee. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like you to give me two, three more minutes, as well as other colleagues. Of course I understand the need to heroize Mr. Pappas, that he was the one who went against the argument, interests, etc. I heard all these cute things from Mr. Janakopoulos. But here we do not come because the complication has spoken, as you define it, but because this is where you speak your own people. Was it our gorgeous boy? Mr. Kalogeritsa was underneath and applauded at your party events Mr. Pappas, when he was a speaker. Mr. Kaloggitsa was the publisher who used to support your party precursor, the coalition one. It was Mr. Kalogritsas who had excellent relations with Mr. Spirtzi, to remember the fragmentation of the great work of Pyrgos - Patras with the company "TOXOTIS". You remember them! Ladies and gentlemen, our proposal has a political, parliamentary and institutional character. In a spirit of modesty away from extremes - the extremities you saw from Mr Polakis - and the doctrines of the 'eye for an eye' type, we want the truth to be seen. But we are not going to give proper importance and gravity. We can't, we can't omit the top-named complaints. We do not go with 'coopers'. We go with people with names, with your "speakers" people, with Mr. Kalogritsa. Many of you were going to Mr. Kalogerica's office! So we shouldn't see who they were going in, what they said, what they called it, and what did they put together a plan? We cannot decode the code names "White House" and "White Porscha" that contain scandal smell. We therefore want to highlight the'magasies' and'multi-money'. I didn't say it, Mr. Pappas said it. We don't have anything to do with this. Ladies and gentlemen - and I conclude - at a time when the average Greek is being tested by crises and pandemics, will we do what we have not heard and seen? The Greeks have financial problems and they were spending 3 million euros of transfers, and we are not going to talk about it? So what it takes is light! And Greece is the country of light. You should never forget that. So we're here to shed light! Anyone who doesn't want the light wants only one thing, wants the darkness. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Mr. Marcopoulou. Parliamentary spokesman for the Greek Solution Mr Konstantinos Heitas will now be given the floor and the Member will then speak from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Theodora Jacki. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u116	That's too much light! Mr. Marcopoulou, you blinded us in the light! Too much light! Of course, light on these things, here, yours, on micro-groups, because, in big and serious, I will tell you later, no light. Before entering, I would like to say that we have heard things here today, such as that Kolokotronis was Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u117	It was SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u118	It was SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u119	Of course, to say the Left was born in 1917 and not in 1821. However, if Kolokotronis was Left, he would never give in and betray Macedonia and his name. And those are the Kolokotronis who was Left! Because we're listening in here, and we're going to go crazy! And because in the New Democracy you are talking about the Democratic Party and laughing at the "fighting" that you had just had with Mr Polakis, the whole Democratic Party, Mr Plouris, you are the ones who have been violating the Constitution every day and been ruling this place for two years with television proclamations. That is very democratic for a democratic party! It is you who legislate daily immunity of bankers and of Ministers! Very democratic and that! And I come to the point. In fact, "here boats are gone, boats are milking" you're in here! I'm so sorry to say that. Out there, you know, there's death. Outside here there is death, poverty, hunger, unemployment, psychopharmaceuticals, domestic violence, everyday policing of our country, Turkey's threat and you are dealing with the Pope! "Here's Poppas, there's Poppas, where's Poppas?" The priest used to play out here in Omonia and fooled the world. That's what you're doing here today, you're playing the pope! Instead of dealing with the big and important things, you play the "people". And the New Democracy is talking - it's going crazy, that is! - for an attempt to control the media by SYRIZA. This is what the New Democracy says, which, in one and a half years' time, has given EUR 100 million to the channels! He has given 100, 20 and 10 more, i.e. 30 ads, and the "Argos" and the deferral of payments and a deferral of an advance. Money! Have you given EUR 100 million to the channels in two years and are you talking about control? But you're the same, like two drops of water! They're the same! Those of you in power want to control everything, just like the channels. You're the same! We're talking about tied horns that people's bored of and turned their backs on. That's why the world has turned its back on the political scene and on all of us. Fixed heels, troubles, but big and important, unambiguous, tasty, chat, nothing! For us, for the Greek Solution, your small-party interests have no place in here. None! And if you cared about, gentlemen of the New Democracy, so much about the interest of the Greeks, as you do, and say with the voices of voices here today, you would not turn by the engagement into the great and important things brought by the Greek Solution. We have tabled two proposals for a Committee of Inquiry and for the one you have tabled for the first half of the year, we have said that we will support it. So where are you? Where is your transparency, gentlemen of the New Democracy, to see where these 100 billion euros went in the first half of SYRIZA's governance? Where is he? We are here to support it. Light! That's light, Mr. Marcopoulou. The other is a candle. That's light. The EUR 100 billion of the Greek people, not the EUR 3 million of a contract that the Pope may have or may not have had. It's 100 billion euros, Greek money. Where is he? Nothing. Quiet. You cover up SYRIZA. So where is the light, gentlemen, of the New Democracy, on the proposal for an Examination tabled by the Greek Solution, with ten MPs, on Skopje, on the Skopje treacherous agreement, to find out what happened and not to change the agreement? Because your counter-project is that the deals don't change, although they change when the other one violates it. We don't say that. We say to light everything that happened at the time and how we reached the treacherous Embassy agreement, in this atrocity. So get a photocopy, please, to the Members of the New Democracy. It is the proposal for an Examination of the Greek Solution. Now, here. Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck. Sign! Now sign the proposal for a committee of inquiry for the Prespes, because these are the important ones. To share with the Members of the New Democracy to sign. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Constantine Hetas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] But there's nothing there too. Radio silence. For the Eye, man! In the Eye, we had a hundred and a half dead. We have made a proposal for a committee of inquiry to be held accountable and you have done nothing. We had dead, Greek dead who were burned alive in the 21st century. You didn't do anything. And now you've found the Pope. Three million here, two million here, we're all gonna be judges now in here and lose the essence. Yeah, everything in the light, normal, not that light, yours, with lamps. Light, regular light! However, once again, Mr President, the House has proved relentless. It did not adopt what we said in the debate during the constitutional review on the establishment of a Constitutional Court, but also on the fact that all politicians should have criminal responsibility. The criminal responsibility of the ministers to identify the criminal responsibility of ordinary citizens. We said it and we called it. It was the Greek solution proposal. But it's gone! And we're going to today. Let me make it clear that we are neither here nor here to judge the guilt or guilt of the Pappas Nikos, the former Minister, nor, of course, to make any judicial decision. We are here today to decide whether the House will instruct the relevant Advisory Council to check the category data, etc. The New Democracy must, however, describe a crime. There's got to be a crime, there's got to be something epilepsy. What is epilepsy? That the Pope had some kind of personal benefit. That's the crime. You have to prove this, whether it has benefited personnel or that the public has suffered some damage. Otherwise we glaz and waste our time and disorientate the world and set up this nice, theatrical in here, in the run-up to elections, obviously. Are you going to do this? On the one hand, we have the EUR 100 billion in the first semester - to figure out a little bit what is going on, to listen to the Greeks and Greeks - and on the other hand, to deal with the 3 million, if he took the channel so much, if he didn't get that much, he went to check out, he went to buy, he went to get a license. Like you didn't do the same! I told you before. Until now you have given EUR 100 million to the channels, EUR 100 million to a year and a half. I'm sorry to say, since it's the same thing with Mr. Pappas, your behavior is really 'papazi' behaviour, as I say. It is a political petty, in fact, to chase the little ones and leave the big ones and the important ones and bring such a topic here today, while society is groaning out. Who do you think he cares? Who's snooping? A citizen find me today who might be tempted out there for the Poppa case you are restarting today. If there's anything to go to justice, let the gentleman be tried. All in the light! But out there there is money, there is evil great, and there comes even greater evil, and the political system does not stand up to the circumstances today! I am sorry to say this - I repeat - but it is a political microcracy that we have to chase the little ones and leave the big ones. Will you sign the proposal we have submitted to you for the establishment of a committee of inquiry? We shared it with you here again, gentlemen of the New Democracy. For the Prespecies that you were yelling at, you made it a banner, you deliberately misled the world that you politically deceived them. But there is no Constitutional Court to punish a government that with another agenda comes out and other things are being implemented. There is no Constitutional Court and you mislead the world for life. The political system is petty. Do you want this case to proceed? Let's move on. You're going to move on anyway. But, in order to proceed with this case, the other big and important ones should move on. Now sign the exam for Matti, now sign the exam for Skopje, for our country, which we sold Macedonia to the scoppiens and the Greek people's 100 billion money. Will you sign them? We have the money of the Greek people, the dead Greeks and we really gave the name to the scouts. If not, you commit and continue a repeated threefold political crime. You commit a triple political crime. And I shall end, Mr President, by saying this: we are sure that you will not do any of what we have said. Nothing. We'll just be here to remind people of how great political liars you are. If the great comedian of antiquity lived, Aristophanes would once again write the "Horniths", "Horniths 2" but not "Horniths 1".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Mrs Theodora has the floor now by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, we are being called today to discuss an issue that has been arousing the political life of the country since 2016 and perhaps even the main cause for which Mr Mitsotakis is a Prime Minister today. We will therefore discuss an incomplete competition for television licences in 2015, in a country that was already in an irresponsible field of broadcasting since the start of the private channels process in 1990. And this incomplete competition has created a sequence of events which has turned key entrepreneurs and publishers against SYRIZA for a long period of time, which unfortunately continues to date. This was done with a particular avenger tone on their part. So these canalarchs, as we are used to telling them, are not canalarchs, are mainly businessmen who are engaged in other economic activities and use the broadcasting spectrum they have been given free of charge to serve their private interests as they believe. Besides, they are businessmen, their private interests are serving. That's perfectly normal. So this group of people and others who felt affected by the process decided to turn from 2016 and to be seen with an inspiring and fury against SYRIZA, to make the hair, to find issues where they are not there, to lie, to admonish, and above all to support politically the most dirty, corrupt and incompetent in the current political life, that is, Mr.Mitsotakis, and his group of “excellent”. And like this, although SYRIZA, with its mistakes and its corners, delivered the funds full of them, the Greek economy not only in the take-off phase, but literally flew into the air and the main issues of the institutions were settled, a mosque of the Greek society against SYRIZA, based on the mustache of Polakis, the tear of Kibouropoulos and other "three pots", which would not be a political issue at all, but not even a reference to the most regional online instrument, if there were no such staff as certain businessmen, I would say against all of SYRIZA, but certainly against some of his people. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I wonder how many notes you still have to pay off until the Greek people give in to the message of your trustees, that anyone who resists the disdaining of the people's interests and public funds must be destroyed for example. Because in fact today, we are not talking about Nikos Pappa, but about the right of the powerful and the privileged to do what they want to do unpunished, mocking the Constitution and the laws. You make me wonder how many more bank managers are hiding behind the EUR 250 million that your party owes to the banks. You make me and I wonder how many dealings are hidden behind the 'Koropo-allocations'. Haven't you ever heard the popular saying that at the hanged man's house we're not talking about rope? Listen, then, what is our difference. Whatever you do, abused any parliamentary majority, history will write that it was in the prime minister of Alexis Tsipras that the first minister who forced the canalarchs to pay rent for the use of radio frequencies and was Nikos Pappas. Unlike Nikos Pappa, for you the story will write - because he will write it, it is your time, Mr. Plearis - that you were the ones who apologise to the frequency abusers, you were the ones who effectively exempted them from paying any end of their use, you were those municipalities of the press function, because you have abolished the minimum number of journalists on the channels and, indeed, you are manipulating until today through the endless "coronoti" of advertising and opacity. Ladies and gentlemen, what really results from a quick reading of the case-file that the prosecutor has joined us in this House? That a businessman who made a contractor with a large multinational, to build a project abroad, took a guarantee letter to participate in a television competition on licenses, of which he was then expelled, because he did not have to pay the first instalment - from the government of SYRIZA, I remind you - and four months after the cancellation of the tender took back the 3 million euros and two months later, by reducing the share capital, he put this money on his company's account. In other words, the EUR 3 million has been enslaved. And above all, in this non-existent scenario of a businessman who wanted to obtain a television licence, but who did not succeed, an entire scenario was built, obviously to survive politically, and he himself, by exploiting the political signal that was formed against SYRIZA. He sold his services - I'm not saying, in return for taking and continuing to get works and immunity. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, which you signed this ridiculous text, I have nothing but to express my sympathy and sympathy to your face, as you have realised that the country governs the corporate Mitsotakis regime and by signing this request, you have tabled a statement of corporate opinion to the "great boss of everyone", which has made you puppets of out-parliamentary interests and simple private employees. I apologise to the private sector for using the term. Things are simple, ladies and gentlemen. Nikos Pappas is punished by your social bosses because he touched their interests. The most natural thing, however, is that you submitted this application to cover the public waste television coronary, drawing public attention from the economic, health and moral level of management of the pandemic by your Government. You filed this request to draw the people's attention from the brutal repression and police rule. I have two news to tell you, and good and bad. The good news is that this construction will also be suppressed through the Internet and the few few broadcasters the Greek people will learn the truth. The bad news is that I would not like to find myself in your place when the Mitsotakis regime collapses, Mr. Pilaris, when you discover that the same interests that brought him to the Prime Minister have been used and thrown you into the gallery of the unusable. I was at this step last time, Mr Plearis, and I warned you about the attempt to rinse out the NOVARTIS scandal at the time - and we don't have to say names - that they will actually throw you in the nut chest. Even if you become parliamentaryly inappropriate with proposals like today, we will be parliamentaryly vindicated and defenders of the interests of the people and of democracy. Finish in knowledge that the charge is false and irresponsible. In your knowledge, the construction company itself, which Kalogris claims to have mediated, has categorically denied any involvement of Nikos Papapas in the natural subject of the collaboration with the Kalogrisa group. Please come to your knowledge that you have reached the institution and the Parliamentary Republic and the Committee of Inquiry. But don't worry. As you go, the people will soon give us the mandate to give back substance and content to this institution. Do what you want, then. Decide what you want. Vote what they tell you, but we know that we will stand here, thorn in your plans and an obstacle to the country's policies of divestment and violation of Parliament's democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u122	Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mrs Maria Konnakas from the Communist Party of Greece is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u123	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, on 29 January this year, the Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Award Mr. Maria Maluchos presented to the Greek Parliament the penal case law that came to its hands a day earlier by the Prosecutor of Independents Mr. Konstantinos Simizoglou and relates to the MP and former Minister of SYRIZA Mr. Nikos Papapas. It is a case-file created by the 6-7-2020 appeal of the public limited company called "TOXOTIS", interests of Christos Kalogrisa and according to which, as the Publisher of Plenipotentiary states, evidence of the execution of criminal acts by Mr Papa, allegedly carried out during the years 2015-2016 and in the performance of his duties by the Minister in the previous year. It is therefore called on the Greek Parliament to decide today whether to investigate and whether to evaluate closely, as the law gives it the right, the legal aspects of a matter for which there are little secret signs of the conduct of criminal offences or whether to let the political life of the place erod once again by assumptions, misinterpretations, speculation and the exchange of fires which only offer to a society that needs to move together in the new era. This is why the New Democracy, by means of the proposal of thirty Members, calls for a special parliamentary committee to be set up to carry out a preliminary investigation into the felony of political bribery and the misdemeanor of the violation of duty by a tight and consequent number, allegedly carried out by the former Minister of State, in the exercise of his duties in the tender for television licences. It was a competitive process that, regardless of whether, as the businessman Kalogiritsa made in his complaints and statements, he seems to have been set up, the given fact is that he had fallen on the Council of State, which considered it non-legislative and unconstitutional, cancelling the contest and blowing the project of the then government. The essence, however, is that, if we want to illuminate all aspects of the case, we must investigate the validity and validity of both the complaints of Kalogrisa and the jury of witnesses proposed by the company "TOXOTIS" against Nikos Papa and concern the behind-the-scenes approach that established the competition for television licences in 2016. We must examine in depth the number of documents and the e-mails that exist in the case-file and speak directly of front-lines, of a ghost-guarantee letter, of virtual contracts with the Lebanese construction colostrum 'CC', of the ownership of the Huri family and of its subsidiary Al Gandhi, supposedly of sub-contractors in work in the United Arab Emirates and of millions of euros and of publishing companies allegedly switching hands through dark paths. We have to explore all of the indications of Mr. Papa's omissions and breaches of duty, as they unfold in the litigation, which suggest that while he knew that Mr. Kalogritsa had neither the necessary economic surface nor the necessary "outside" nor the real business interest to participate in the competition on television licences, he seems to have tried and finally succeeded in the illegal involvement of Mr. Kalogritsa in him, by means of finding money from third parties. All this was done with the award of a television licence with the intervention, mediation and blessing of Mr. Pappas and with the aim of maximising SYRIZA's influence on the television scene. And when this objective was not achieved, for reasons of course independent of the will of Mr. Pappas, Mr. Pappas himself, during the complaints, indicated the amount of the guarantee letter from EUR 3 million for the participation of the company of Kalogris in the tender for television licences to be finally sent to the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO', known for all costs for defending SYRIZA's positions. We must also bear in mind that all these displeasures are not implied by a vague reputation, half-imposed statements of anonymous and dubious witness credibility, under the protection regime, but by the names and statements of a former SYRIZA government, who itself tried to make it a canalarch by finding him, this SYRIZA government, in other words, according to its statements, the 3 million warranty letter to participate in the tender, after it had first appointed a major builder with the public works he gave him, breaking the Patras - Tower to eight pieces so that he could get the four and after he deliberately considered that the pastures in Ithaca are a powerful asset and guarantee without payment of the price of the television licence from 52.6 million euros. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy proposes the setting-up of a Preliminary Examination Committee, not to exterminate its opponent policies, as SYRIZA wants it to appear, but in order to objectively explore another dark and discomfortful case of SYRIZA - ANEL governance, which clearly aimed at controlling the joints of power, controlling the television scenery, with only four national wide channels and with its own channellord, in order to be able to extinguish lies and hide its enormous failure. Let it be. We in the New Democracy committed ourselves to transparency everywhere, and that will continue to do every aspect of public life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u124	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Ms Maria Konnaka has the floor now from the Communist Party of Greece. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou will be followed by New Democracy and the cycle will be closed with Mrs Anastasia Gara by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Even if we overlook the obviously 'time' of the debate with the pandemic and the public health system in the intensive sector, it is impossible to overcome the parallelism with the results and usefulness of the recent pre-review committee, which has not been able to do so - well to complete and start a new show round. The memories are fresh, and we do not need to look at so many other things, which are set up on either side, depending on each other's relationship, and in addition to their contribution to the disorientation of the timeliness, but also to the setting up of a convenient bipartisan confrontation, they also have an even more useful contribution to the system, to deepen the real causes of corruption, the interaction of urban parties with the various business interests, which lead to the formation of the various scandals each time. Did the pre-examination 'NOVARTIS', in both its versions, enlightened the operative cause of the scandal, or hid it under the helmet, the commercialisation of health and medicine, which creates the ground for competition and the bazaars? That's what the JRC said, and you've all been deaf. And that is where the people are now experiencing in the most tragic way the consequences, the vaccines being haggled in terms of purchases, geostrategic competitions, and all of this at the expense of thousands of people throughout the world, and now all of you are allegedly watching the consequences of barbarism, which you all defend, both those who have spent years on the patent and those who have recently discovered it. And now what will he investigate, you say, this pre-interrogative? We'll check the media involvement. Yes, sir. So we're going to find out the powder. In relation to the typical part of the case, the position of the JRC, as our rapporteur, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, does not seem to be able to make a point of criminal offences against the then Minister in order to set up a Committee of Inquiry. Political responsibilities, and whatever else they may be, could be considered within a committee of inquiry, investigating all aspects of the case. But, as many times as we finally play the priest in these committees, can one of you claim that there was any government that did not try to play political games with the media, which, therefore, did not make deals over and under the table with the big businessmen in the sector? Not to talk, gentlemen of the government, about the great, legal gifts you make in the channels, even at this critical time. In other words, in the big fireplaces of the New Democracy and PASOK, which SYRIZA was supposed to rinse with the infamous Pappa law, instead of taking them down, he tried to put chimney on his own fireplaces, and he also fell into the mujura. Why is it that remains intact in the system that you are all defending? That the media are in the hands of great business interests. Shipowners, industrialists and others are cutting off and sewing information, depending on their economic and business interests. And that's where legal and illegal channels of communication open up, with urban parties and governments. The conflict existed, there is and will continue as long as the information is not treated as a right of the people, but as a commodity, i.e. sold under the conditions laid down by each of its owners. And on this, not only are you all agreed, but you also maintained the terms of the game. Of course, when you are in the Opposition, you go out complaining about monophony in the channels, midtermism and other things, which exist, and the project is finally replayed, with reversed roles each time. Proof of this situation is also a permanent violation of the principle of proportionality of party representation based on their electoral power. There will be parties, first and foremost the government, which are over-represented with 60% and 70%, and parties that are constantly lost in representation. The JRC, which retains the privilege of being permanently represented under its electoral rate with all governments, is in this equation. Others, which are intended for the role of government wilderness, such as the Change Movement, for example, always ensure a more favourable treatment. This sad television scene does not touch it, of course, nor does the National Broadcasting Council, which is now commonly maintained not only by decorative roles, but is finally becoming a principle of legitimising this immunity of the canalarchs. This immunity also dresses with the mantle of legitimacy, finally interpreting in due course a decision by the Council of State which says that the promotion of parties should be measured not only by quantitative but also qualitative indicators. Of course, it is wondered how these qualitative indicators are finally being met, if, for example, they are following the towel even of the JRC's official statements in the news reports. If even another quality indicator was added to the parties' television time, journalists in the various broadcasts and recently the special analysts, parliamentarians and party officials, who are facing one party or another of the two-party parties and reproducing the dominant political opposition without a corresponding, then the size of the struggle would be even more obvious. This reality is easily perceived by the world too, without the official evidence and measurements that are indeed revealing. It is understandable that this kind of information is objectively extinguishing the needs and, of course, the struggles of the people who are permanently occupied even by the state news report. However, what finally needs to be understood is that the great obstacle to real information, but also to the entertainment of the people, is this capitalist property in the media. As long as she doesn't leave the middle, then this lousy TV scenery will be perpetuated. The JRC will continue to highlight with all its means the real political issues and the responsibilities of all of you for this current situation, but above all it will continue to fight with all its forces against the causes of this situation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Mr. Ragossi, would you like to have the floor now or later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u127	Now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u128	Mr. Nicolakopoulou, excuse me for the change. I had not noticed that the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragus, had asked for the floor. Mr Ragossi, you are on your way and you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think today is a sad day politically and parliamentaryly. Before I explain why, in my opinion, today is a sad day, you will allow me - and particularly my colleagues in the New Democracy - to say this: make a point of reading what you are saying today by supporting this proposal for a Pre-Assurance Committee on Mr Nikos Papapas in conjunction with what you said when he had come from the then majority of Parliament, by the majority of SYRIZA, the proposal to investigate possible criminal responsibilities for the 'NOVARTIS' scandal. Dear Mr Keletsis, read a word for a word again about what you said today and ask yourself whether all these allegations you have made here are precisely the allegations you have unrealisticly put forward about the attitude you have taken and the reaction you have shown when the proposal for the preliminary questioning and the investigation of the 'NOVARTIS' scandal came up. Then you said that it was not enough that the prosecutor sent here the file with the ten political persons, but it was inappropriate, it was a vulgarity of SYRIZA at the time it went into the investigation and today you say "But we did nothing. The Advocate General sent them and the time when the Advocate General sent it...' [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] No, it's not, Mr. Keletsi. Today the D.A. did his job according to the Constitution. You are today judging because from the prosecutor to the moment we are here, your proposal has been made. Your proposal, ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, is essentially a sad day for Parliament. Why? Why, ladies and gentlemen, are we today discussing the possibility of setting up a committee of inquiry? Are we investigating any political responsibilities of Mr. Nikos Papapas? Is this today the day that the rapporteur of the New Democracy may go up to MPs from other parties, with the well-known role they play, and all their arguments to be a political argument when what they ask is to be set up, not a committee of inquiry, but a committee of inquiry for a human being, for a colleague of yours, for a Member? You're not asking for Nikos Pappas to be judged politically. You are asking to sit - essentially you've decided - on the defendant's stand. When you ask for this the minimum moral obligation that you all have together and everyone individually, Mr. Ploiris, all of you, especially those who are legal, are to document this claim legally and not to come here and make a political controversy as to whether you agreed with the Pappa Law or who disagreed and who agreed with the Pappa Law in 2016. It is disgraceful that when a party reaches this point to recommend the setting up of a pre-review committee with political arguments, it means that this is a moment of shame for Greek democracy. I will tell you, in particular, by addressing you, colleagues in the New Democracy: this Parliament has dealt with much more difficult cases, criminally much more difficult cases. The case of the Vatopedio, which came up with a committee of inquiry, and then your colleagues who are sitting on the table today, are Members, such as Mr Rosopoulos, when the voting time came, and the New Democracy was a minority, because some people are not only in here on the flag of the party but also in their conscience, without knowing who, at that time, stood above the circumstances of the most acute polarization that existed at that time between PASOK and the New Democracy. You know what they voted for? That Mr Russopoulos should not be referred back and not just, despite the sharp controversy that existed at the time. Why? Why didn't they follow your line, your example, what you're doing today, what you have a man who your worst enemy was, do you think should be judged criminally? Come and support it. It is inhuman, it is personal and human misery that you are doing today, to go up to this Step with political arguments as to whether you liked the politics of SYRIZA, Tsipras and Papa for the channels or not, to ask - I repeat - not for an examination but for an interrogation committee. Mr. Plolis, because you like the debate on the past of the New Democracy: The New Republic of Constantine Karamanlis what today's New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, this evil right that we have today in the country, the Right of Kyriakos Mitsotakis would never have done so. It would only do so if it had any evidence if it had legal basis. You think this message hasn't already been sent? Haven't you already indicated it to the Greek people? You have already indicated it to the Greek people because when the prosecutor's file came to Parliament, all the leaks you made were that "we don't know, we can't, if we don't look into it and if we don't look for it, if we don't document it, we can't." You've leaked this all by yourself. You yourself have passed the conviction to the Greek people that this is actually a established history with exclusive political vengeance. But I will not remain in this political accusation against you, that what you are doing today is a misery of the right in Greece that has never done so before. I'm going to get on the ground where you don't want to come in. Where do you base your claim on the proposal you submitted? What is the sole claim that one might say that this is a bit of a debate on whether or not a Pre-review Committee should be set up. What do you say? You say one thing, that Nikos Pappas knew that Kalogris didn't have the money, that he put him on the front with what purpose? SYRIZA to get a TV. That's your claim. The charge of breach of duty and bribery is based solely on this core of the claim. You have nothing else. Do you get enough to say - when the money was returned because the contest ended - where did the money go? They went to 'DOCUMENTO'. I'm starting with the last one. Did they go to "DOCUMENTO" the money? Is that the truth? Are these the facts? No, it's not, you're lying. And that's not all we say today, I'm not saying it today, even the newspapers, who, when they took the exodus from Vaxebanes into trying to reject this claim, like the "original theme", which I submit in the Minutes, wrote the truth. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What's the truth? You know her, Mr. Plouris, you know her, Mr. Keletsi, you know her, Mrs. Papacostas, that these 3 million, when she was supposed to have given them to "DOCUMENTO", first, she couldn't have given them because they were bound by the Greek state. When he got it back, two days later, what did Mr. Kalogerica do? He made capital cuts and - in common, he 'finished' them personally, and that is proven. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Plouris, because you have done misery in the "NOVARTIS" pre-examination, don't imagine that in this case you will be able to do it as easily as possible. You will ask, if you have a trace of gum on you - not individually, I mean as a party - to open the accounts of Calogrica, to show where these 2 million went from the time he made a impairment of capital and downloaded these 3 million and put them in his pocket. It did not, therefore, give it to 'DOCUMENTO'. And this also recognizes the "CORDER THEME" as a response to the exterior of Vaxebana. We say this is the end of the claim. But let's go to the core of the claim. So what Mr Kalogritsa, who you have contracted his representation in the Greek Parliament, and you have put it - I repeat - as a core of your reasoning within the proposal to set up this committee: Mr. Papapas knew that there was no money in Mr. Kalogritsa and he made the money available. Three million had to be found to get Mr. Kalogeritsa a television license? With three million, could Mr. Kalogris buy a TV license? None falseer than that. With 3 million people, Mr. Kalogeritsa could not even find them, and the Huri family would have given them to him, "CCC" to buy a television licence. As it turns out, he wanted tens of millions. So wait, where's the permission from the Kalogericas, which you're writing in your proposal that with 3 million of the Pope's secured him, he'd take it? Where's the license? He didn't take her. Why didn't he take her? Because it wasn't enough 3 million euros to get permission. So the core of your reasoning is who, Mr. Pleari? What is the core of those who have drafted and signed this proposal? So the core, it turns out, is a lame man, that he's a false man. Because if we assumed that we should investigate the possible criminal responsibilities of Nikos Pappas, we should know that Nikos Pappas had arranged for Kalogris to find 25 or 50 million euros. Where are these 25 or 50 million euros? Simple, nowhere. Nowhere, because the 3 million are indeed a concrete and real sum, while the more than 3 million required to obtain the licence is just your slander, it is just the misery you commit. And you know it, you do it consciously, because you don't have the evidence, there's no evidence. Even if he had agreed with the Huri family to put that money on the Huri family to get the license, that is, the 25 million out of 50 million, where is that money? Why didn't they come in? Answer me. You have an obligation, because you want to drive a man to the Special Court, a fellow man of yours. No matter if he is your fellow MEP, but he is your political opponent and all you care about is to avenge your political opponents, do harm them, because you represent the most malicious version of the Right Greece has known in recent years, this is the Right of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So where are these 25 million? Where are the 50 million? And if only 3 million were required, why did one have to run to the United Arab Emirates? One could rightly ask: from the state funding that the first party received at that time, which wanted to acquire 'CHANNEL', could it not give 3 million? He couldn't give 3 million of state funding for a year, which if I remember correctly takes about 20 million of the first party, but he would have to make all this path, which in a completely unfounded and slanderable way you claim to be? Aren't these all from the beginning to the end at the core of your reasoning, I repeat, of the legal reasoning on the basis of which you seek to set up this pre-reviewing completely lame, false and slanderous? Of course it is. I'll say two more things. If we're talking about bribery, who's finally committed? The one you don't have a trace of evidence, and yet do you want to ask for a special court or do you? What have you done on the basis of this case? You have been severely exposed to the accusation that you have committed the offence of duty violation and bribery. Why? Why have you taken your back, represented politically, and have you politically legitimized Mr. Kalogrica's pursuit to do what? Not to return the 3 million from where he took it. That's what you're doing. You are the defenders of Kalogerica's effort not to return the 3 million to Arabs. That's what you're doing! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Well, that's what you're offering Kalogerica. You tell him, here we are, and we'll help you not to turn the 3 million, keep them for you. And in return for you? And here's the bribery, Mr. Pleari. Do you know what Mr. Kalogris will give you three million with your help? He denounces your political opponents and makes all this claim, that he allegedly made all this, but because of the fact that the smart bird from the nose is caught when it comes to proposing a witness basic to substantiate his claims, Mr. Tobra, what does Mr. Tobra say? He says all Mr. Kalogericas says is actually a lie, because he had done the communication and contact of the Huri family with Kalogerica and not Nikos Papas, that he had closed the deal 25 million to put one and 25 million to the other. This is not all Nikos Pappas, Janakopoulos who was recommended, Raguss who is talking now, says the witness of Kalogritsa. So, do you support all your claim in Kalogerica's views, which not only does not confirm, but is expressly disproved by his own witness, proving that there was no possibility of EUR 3 million being obtained “SYRIZA CHANNEL” by the government of Alexis Tsipras and in return for what you have received? These stubborn, controversyful contradictions, laughing at the legal world of the country that has read them, testified by Mr. Kalogritsa, to what end? In order to accuse your political opponents, avenge them. On the basis of what logic and attitude, ladies and gentlemen? Unfortunately, in a culture to which the current New Democracy has acceded, and it was not the dominant attitude in the worst times, I repeat, in the most acute times, war periods of confrontation between the parties in the past, in the mind that you are the permanent owners of the country and you do not allow anyone, whom you consider to be an occasional tenant, to dare to represent the Greek people as a majority in this Parliament, to ask for and obtain approval from the Greek people to implement the policies adopted by the Greek people and, of course, to implement them, when they are, in particular, opposed interests, specific interests, with which, not just you are tied up, but you are tightly embraced. So, in fact, what you are trying today and which we have no doubt you will take it to the end, because you are manipulated politically, it is a misery policy and parliament, which, I repeat, tarnishs the history of the New Democracy, tarnishes Parliament's history. It is not just collective responsibility, it certainly has an individual dimension. Because at these moments, not only is the party judged, it is not only the New Democracy, it is not just a Parliamentary group, but it is also the individual Member and parliamentarians who are judged separately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u130	Let me say something, without actually entering into the matter, only for the non-legislative. This is where it seems to me that there is a preliminary investigation. This is not a preliminary investigation, because the pre-inquiry is subject to prosecution. It's a preliminary examination, which examines any traces of scorpions that exist here and there. The procedure before Parliament has two stages. The first is preliminary examination, to gather evidence of the validity of what is being heard, and if the committee decides, at second stage, that there is a fairness, then the House comes and decides on criminal prosecution. Of course, there is an unregulated structure in Articles 153 and then that impression arises, that the prosecution is already being called for. There's no prosecution. It's a preliminary exam.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u131	Your MPs say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u132	We're not actually...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, please give me the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u134	Mr. Ragosi, it's preliminary. It's not a preliminary question. That's what I said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u136	But I didn't say anything. I made a general legal system for non-lawyers. You know it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u137	The New Democracy MPs...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u138	Mr. Nicholas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the subject of today's debate is particularly critical, because it is not just about setting up a committee to investigate any offences committed by the former Minister, Mr Nikos Pappas, but about issues relating to the functioning of our society, issues relating to constitutional function and constitutional order. And Parliament is called upon once again to decide whether to investigate criminal offences relating to interventions in critical, the functioning of the civil society, powers. In the previous decision we investigated interventions in the judiciary, a case which has already taken the course of justice. In this case we have to decide whether to investigate criminal offences, relating to interventions in competition for television licences, that is to say for attempting to control the press, the so-called fourth power. We can therefore say that the decision we are called upon to take today is related to the previous decision of the committee and the work of the two pre-request committees has a common direction and a common recommendation. We'll all remember in the previous committee the former Minister of State, Nikos Pappa, talking about shops that make money, a lot of money. So there is another common point, a person who appears on both committees. What we all have to understand is the competence which this House has in these cases, which is the responsibility provided for in the Constitution and in Article 86 in particular. Rule 86 gives Parliament the power to decide on the investigation of offences, the setting up of a special parliamentary committee and the prosecution of criminal offences committed by a Minister in the performance of his duties. It gives it the power to carry out public prosecutors' and inquiries. It does not, however, allow it to hide, cover when the evidence required by the law is met, that is to say, sufficient evidence. With the evidence in the case-file which has come to Parliament, it is clear that we have no choice but to decide on the case and the Commission's recommendation. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to refer to some critical aspects of the case. I shall speak with legal arguments, as did previous colleagues, Mr Ragosi, and they are included in the committee's legally substantiated proposal. And the facts are concrete offences. The process that took place in 2016 for the reception of television licences caused many questions not only in the legal and political world, but also in public opinion, a process that referred to "Big Brother", with the candidates for the TV licence closed in a building, but also with an inexplicable and restrictions on freedom and pluralism in information, restriction on the number of television licences, condemning the closure of other stations with incalculable financial consequences, but also with major job losses. In fact, the New Democracy as a Qualified Opposition at that time had denounced publicly illegal and extra-institutional actions in relation to the tender procedure. The strange thing, however, is that these findings were not only made by the New Democracy, it was also made by Mr Ragus, who, on 21 October in a post on his personal Facebook account, said: "The fact that the Tsipras government was conceived to introduce to Parliament the bill on the licensing of television licences, hiding from Parliament and the citizens its decision on the number of licences, as well as their fee, is not just unacceptable, but also suspicious". And then he says: "In fact, this is how the government provokes an opaque separatism, a donor and a receiver." I present for the Minutes two posts by Mr Ragosi. [[At this point Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] It was also denounced by the New Democracy, that Mr. Kalogritsas had participated in the tender with a late letter of guarantee, that he was illegally involved, because of these documents he had submitted, it appeared that he did not have the money to participate. He also had denounced that he was unlawfully declared a final successful tenderer, since after the audit it emerged that he still has no money. In fact, then there was reference to the wonderful pastures. In order to do this, there were a number of legislative arrangements such as Law No.4339/2015, also known as the Pappa Law, which led to the early termination of the mandate of members of the National Broadcasting Council and left the independent authority without legal composition and function. Subsequently, with a later amendment invoking this failure to operate the principle, it went through the procedure under its jurisdiction, setting out the number of licences in four, in breach of Article 16 of the Constitution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Who was the person responsible for conducting this procedure, which has been found to be not lawful by the Council of State and for which the chairman and members of the Committee for the Exploitation of the Tender are already criminally prosecuted? He was the former Minister of State and later Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information, Mr. Nikos Pappas. I have to add to all these public complaints of well-known businessmen, such as Mr Marinakis and Mr Kontomenas, that they were asked by Mr Pappas to give money to Mr Kalogritsa to build a channel, complaints that Mr Pappas has never objected to. And, of course, we all remember various public works taken by Mr. Kalogritsas at the very time, such as the Patras to Tower, for which, in order to be able to award it, the tender of the work was cancelled as a single one and was split into eight pieces. And today, ladies and gentlemen, what do we have with the case-file that has arrived at the House? A message by Mr. Kalogrisa, accompanied by testimony and documents, which the former Minister is complaining about asking Mr. Kalogrisa to participate as a front in the TV licence competition in 2016, in order to obtain a television station license that will be controlled by SYRIZA and serve his policy. In fact, it is alleged that it has intervened and indicated to the Lebanese construction company 'CCC', which had no right to participate in the tender, that it would pay the sum of EUR 3,000 to participate with a company called 'KOLOGRITSA'. This amount was actually paid and a guarantee letter was issued for participation in the tender since a virtual subcontracting agreement was used to carry out a project that was not in existence and was never done. So it's a argument I heard a moment ago...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u140	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u141	...that because the transaction has not been completed, because the rest of the money has not been found, has the crimes not been committed and should not be investigated?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u142	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u143	So does anyone in this Chamber think that the House should not investigate these complaints? Does anyone think there's not enough evidence? I would like to point out that the opposition has not appealed to the Advisory Council provided for in Rule 155 of Parliament's Rules of Procedure to control the category and assess its validity. The Qualified Opposition is now talking about a vengeance and political persecution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u144	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u145	I shall conclude, Mr President. The way in which such issues are approached by the New Democracy and the lack of political prejudice or avengement is also apparent from the fact that there was no such proposal to investigate former Ministers in the FOLIE-FOLIE case. So, in fact, the opposition is asking the House to cover up and not to investigate and, at the same time, it is directly threatening - and this is not the first time it is threatening - and it says that the second time left will be otherwise. Except that citizens have experienced well the first time and the so-called moral advantage of the Left and do not want to think about the second. Ladies and gentlemen, the criminal offences we have to investigate also concern the functioning of the civil society. In every attempt to violate constitutional order, every attempt to control the democratic functioning of institutions and rights, such as the press and the right to information, justice must find us absolutely opposite to shield our democracy and not allow anyone to be supervised by trying to control the joints of power.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u146	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u147	I shall conclude, Mr President. And the way for this immunity is provided for by the Constitution in Article 86. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too. Mrs. Anastasia Gara has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. We were called today to discuss a preconceived decision by the Mitsotakis Government, a construction, part of the total vengeance plan of the Anti-Population, but also a misery, because only as misery can slandering, void content, vacant arguments against SYRIZA and Nikos Pappas, at a time when, in fact, the National Health System suffocates, our citizens struggle for their lives and fight out there and the economy collapses. But not all of this is in the priorities of the New Democracy Government. Priority is the spiral of SYRIZA. But it is worthy, ladies and gentlemen, to consider the reasons for the establishment of this pre-review committee by the New Democracy. Firstly, you seek to change your agenda, to disorientate society, to cover your government responsibilities, to fails and scandals. Secondly, you seek the spiral of SYRIZA's morality and presentation as a corrupt party, a failure. However, as Mr Vorides said, "Let's end with the Left", you serve it. Thirdly, you are sending out strong and threatening - I would say - a message that anyone who dares and disturbs the medium-term status quo that has been set up for decades will suffer the consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, over thirty years you have left the broadcasting scene in the regulator, despite the requirements of the Constitution. For thirty years you have not dared to collect a half euros for the use of public television frequencies and tax advertising. For thirty years you have never done your duty. For thirty years you have maintained interlocutor relationships not because you could not, but because it did not suit you. SYRIZA, on the other hand, daring, daring legality, daring his debt, dared to establish terms and conditions and were first licensed for decades by television stations guaranteeing jobs and employment relationships and for the benefit of obviously the public money that was directed at the weakest in our society that had at that time needed. This law has been respected and respected by everyone and is still valid today with the seal of the Council of State, because you are also liars beyond everything else. The daring of SYRIZA and the legitimacy, however, were disturbed. He disturbed because he put an end to the complexion and the dependencies of decades. It was annoyed because some put their hand deep in the pocket for the use of public good. It's annoying! However, you excellent, indestructible, nostalgic of the past and immunity obviously, from the first months of your administration, have been trying to bring back the previous regime with gifts and services to the channels. You have clearly given more than 40 million Petsa lists, you have given the payment of the instalment for the 2020 permits, you have cleared the debts for the permits at fixed costs, losing revenues from the Greek State, you have abolished the obligation to name the shares, you have reduced the obligation of four hundred employees and many more. And what's the price if you want to talk about bribery? Mindless immunity, cover your scandals, cover your destructive policy, while society is groaning out. And you're going to convince SYRIZA is manipulating the media? A walk in the television bulletins for one day is enough to prove otherwise. Ladies and gentlemen, unfortunately for you, there is no such thing as fantasy and inventive as it may be. Evidence there is not even a suspicion of a scandal. There was no privileged treatment to a businessman. It hasn't been proven. After all, he, this businessman you claim, was declared less by SYRIZA himself during the procedure and has never obtained a licence. But do you really want to talk about scandals? Remind Petsa lists, 'CISCO', 'circulation scores', a contract with 'ELLENIC CRYSOS', by direct awards of millions of Nicholas, Mitaraki and other Ministers. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. Not even the knobs! How many pre-interrogatives do you have to set up for all of this and so many other things you've done? Indeed, at the moment - and I say again - society, youth suffocation. Unreasonable restrictions, with authoritarianism, the government cynical, arrogant proves once again what it means right in this place and what anti-social policy means. Two meters and two stations you have: poverty, bankruptcy, repression for the people, immunity, cynicism, impunity for Mr Mitsotakis and his closest power system, lunch in Ikaria, walk, moto cross in Parnitha, Tsiknobert in EKO, painted by Mr Georgiadis at the moment that, as you admitted, 20% of the patients die outside the IKO, when you consider the support of the EKO to be cut money - Ministers have said so - when you have failed to manage any difficulties these days. You see, for the Government of New Democracy, protection of life is considered wasted money. Lost money is the protection of society. And will you, ladies and gentlemen, speak of morality, of which you have been bankrupt, for stealing this country, for using and going bankrupt even the values? Even words went bankrupt in here. The situation today has made it difficult for everyone and all, ladies and gentlemen. In front of hard reality, excellent people make one mistake after another. Minced immunity glass breaks. The facts, the truth can no longer be hidden behind the TV screen glass. The propaganda doesn't work anymore. And so you resort to repression and mud, suppression of the people who protest and raise a head, mud for your political opponents, change of agenda, panic movements. Scandalology, authoritarianism, arrogance, division are standing practices on the right. We know them. We know you. But - and I close, Mr President - one thing you must remember: the Left always historically, over time, moves with the look on society, with the head up, with the hands clear, and that is what bothers you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mrs. Gara. Mr. Angel Tsigris from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, before I begin my speech, I would like to thank the Greek Parliament for the honour it gave me to represent it on 25 March in the historic monastery of Agia Laras at the anniversary of the two hundred years of the declaration of the Revolution, where all began. As an Achaios and as a Greek I feel a special honour for your proposal to represent you there, ladies and gentlemen. I was handed over to the Holy Monastery and to the Kalavrita some souvenirs, which do not belong to me, belong to the House, and I want to give them to the Minutes to be recorded in the archive of the House: The medal donated by the king, at that time, Otto in 1836 to the Holy Monastery. The Kalavritan martyr city’s Lucoma, a city that is more watered with blood and tears than rain water. The anthem - on digital disc - towards the Kalavrytinian mother, who has always been black and always grieved. And the official two hundred-year program, which needs to be left for the next ones, so that the Greeks can learn and not forget. [[At this point Mr Angelos Tsigris presents for the minutes the above-mentioned relics and souvenirs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] I come to the subject of the agenda, ladies and gentlemen. Today we are discussing the setting-up of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of any offences committed by the current MP and former Minister of State and Digital Policy and all this during the performance of his duties. In particular, we are talking about whether the offences of the bribery of a political official and the violation of duty have been committed and continued. Ladies and gentlemen, I really am wondering: will we let there be shadows in our political life? Will we now choose transparency or covertness? Would we prefer the clearance or complicity? Are we going to decide and, at the same time, vote for justice or impunity at night? I think we should respond to these questions with our vote today. But let's start over. How did this case come about? The contractor, Mr. Kalogeritsa, supported a statement before regular justice - I read - "At that time I had committed bank accounts. So I had no money for channels." Mr. Kalogris continues his statement: "When I told Mr. Pappa, he answered: "We don't need any money from you, we will. We only want his name." At another point in his statement, Mr. Kalogris said that the Minister at the time told him that the 25 million euros were finally found, which needed to participate in the tender for television licences and that he should only secure the 3 million euros to pay the guarantee letter. As was next, Mr. Kalogerica's nominal report to the former Minister immediately enacted the procedures of the law on the responsibility of the ministers and thus Marios Igous transmitted the case-file to the House without delay. But let's see how we got here. Ladies and gentlemen, it all started up for a private difference between two companies, 'CC' and 'TOXO' by Mr Kalogritsa. In particular, Mr Kalogritsa denounces the conclusion of a virtual subcontracting contract between ‘CCC’ and ‘TOXOT’. The ‘CCC’ paid the TOXOTY the sum of EUR 3,000,000, which was used to pay the guarantee letter of participation in the tender for television licences. In April 2018, the “CCC” appealed to the International Arbitration Court and requested that the above amount be claimed – plus interest – due to the default of the so-called contract. In June 2019, the International Arbitration Court held - irrevocably - the company 'CC'. Immediately the ‘CCC’ lodged an application to the Athens Monomele Court of First Instance requesting that the judgment of the International Arbitration Court be declared enforceable. In July 2020, the Athens Monomele Court declares the judgment of the International Court of Arbitration enforcer. Then the company "TOXOTIS" and Kalogricas filed an indictment against the "CCC", on felony fraud, which was committed before a court, since, according to the allegedly, a virtual contract was presented as real. Somehow, ladies and gentlemen, we have arrived here. Ladies and gentlemen, I sincerely hope Mr Pappas is innocent. As a young Member of Parliament, but as an old lawman, I refuse to believe that there are juror politicians in this Chamber. It doesn't fit my mind, honestly. It is therefore necessary to investigate the denounced acts. I believe that the former Minister himself will not want to be shadowed in this particular case, which is hurting and poisoning our political life. I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you today to defend Parliament's credibility and transparency. I invite you to stand up to the circumstances, to stand up to the society that is watching us and which we have the great honour of representing it here. And I would ask that we judge this case solely on the basis of finding the truth and only of the truth, neither rigour nor lewdly, simply fair. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr. Cigri. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u153	Thank you very much, Mr President. I wanted to note, with regard to what was said by the colleague who just came down from the Step, that, yes, no politician wants to be shadowed on his political path, but also no politician wants to be muddled, violence and vengeance, Mr Colleague. To put things in place, I have seen too many of the majority colleagues avoid speaking from heart and off text. It appears that there is a specific pattern, followed by popy paste and overrides reality, substance and truth. The most degrading, ladies and gentlemen, which is happening today in this Chamber is the fact that you have won your vote, not on the basis of your conscience and the Constitution, but on the basis of the instructions you have given in the context of a policy. The second message you are sending - and it is as negative as the first one - is that Mitsotakis... whoever defended the public interest, who defended public finances is persecuted and punished, on the pretext of the parliamentary procedure. Those who have contributed, in order for this country to have money and good luck to be used to try to save our people from the pandemic and the economic crisis, those who have contributed to this effort must be persecuted, punished, degraded, misrepresented. You must prove and convince yourself that, yes, Tsipras is guilty, the Pope is guilty, they are guilty of those who have protected the public interest in this place. Those who went bankrupt, those who broke the public funds, those who haven't left as gentlemen abroad are likely to be rewarded. Mr Ploris, they may also be Ministers at some point in the Mitsotakis Government. Everything's possible. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not want to use serious designations, but you are guilty. You are guilty mainly of the great political deception of July 2019, where in a pretext and in a tactical way you deceived Greek citizens and understood the authority. This guilt - curious how - now turn it into a peculiar rematch with everything you find. Thus the "right building", with all the materials you found from LAS, by the former ENEN, was structured, with all the materials to compose the new "right building". And it's time you manifested it in a vengeful way. Did you just work with the former Minister of Finance, Mr Varoufakis, to serve your "anti-SYRIZA" hysteria, would you not use Kalogrisa? Is that possible? Do you have any suspension to work on anyone, regardless of what you have said or what you have done in the past? For you the past goes off very easily, it becomes a white page, as long as you achieve what you now have at the juncture like Mr Ragus, as Mr Raguss said, the most malicious version of reunification and the Right. Is Kaloger now an honest man, a trustworthy witness for what you're setting up today? Of course, you've never let the truth spoil the reality that you're setting up, that's what you're scientists are. You don't let the truth spoil your reality and account. But you forget, you have a weak memory, because you know what? The best man of Kalogerica, the trustworthy witness, whose testimony before his colleague invoked and read, is Theodorikos. Does the last name mean anything to you? Was Mr. Theodorikos, a member of GPO and a close associate of Mr. Mitsotakis since 2016? And this page of history goes out just to send a man to the Special Court? Today, ladies and gentlemen, I do not believe that Nikos Pappas is being judged. I believe that the ideological identity of your resignation is judged. It is now your parliamentary conscience that is being judged. If this sacred space except for the laundry of legislation, which usually ends in direct commissions with the guilty fellow Members of the Coupling, such as the "scole of age" and the others, if there is to be a tool of prosecuting political opponents and forces you fear, it is sad. You have targeted the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, the former Prime Minister and the future Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, certain officials and ministers of the previous government, you have targeted the Left. That's what you're really afraid of. Fear why the political line that defines your act is Vorides, whoever wanted to inherit the political history of ENPEN and George Papadopoulos. And that's not an element of historical memory in this place? Everything starts and ends in Calagris? I want to tell you, by approaching the end of this position, fine, your obsession with the Left can be explained, why are you punishing him? What are your citizens to blame for paying for your inertia and ineffectiveness in matters of vital importance and you to invest only in his art "flying the ball on the scale, changing the agenda, why can I, why do I have the means that are legally working in this country for the first time with the Pappas law?" Hey, why are you doing this? Why instead of discussing the fact that eleven months have been doctrinal refusal, conjunctural denial of molecular tests and rapid tests, are you now resurrecting people for self test?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u154	Finish, Mr. Comrade, please. You've been in seven minutes, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u155	Until the nine that you had given me tolerance, Mr President, I shall have finished.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u156	Only Mr. Paulakis took it at nine minutes, please. Everyone's in six and seven.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u157	No, it's not just Mr. Paulakis took it, he took it as a colleague a while ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u158	Well, I'm not interrupting you. Mr. Giannoulis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, I may belong to SYRIZA, but neither blind nor small are I, I have seen the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u160	All right, come see the program.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u161	I would now say about blue vaccination lists, for too much, for the prefabricated persecutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u162	That's out of the question, though.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u163	But you know what? I would like to conclude, despite the fact that this discriminatory treatment has taken place over time and say that invoking conscience for me is the most important thing on this day. The invocation of conscience as MPs, not as applauses and commanders by the communicationists of the Great Maximos. This conscience, ladies and gentlemen, is the shield of injustice, suspicion, set up. It's the shield for everything that hurts democracy. If this evening - which you have already decided - you vote on a copy paste with the inexistent evidence you have invoked, you will have contributed to the degradation of the prestige and this sacred Chamber. I guess the barrel had no bottom of the Vice President of the New Democracy, swinging off this sacred Step by a false picture. There wasn't the bottom of the barrel, it's all the time, obviously. However, you will be overcome by reality, this process will remain as a stigma and will add another feature to your political practice. Apart from sharing, dangerous, very few and finally, with today's evolution of vengeful reinsurance, you will persuade us even more to have as a project, to have as a model - and I wish to come to the consciousness, the political party and the practice that followed up to the depth of the old man - Manolis Glezos who died today in 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u164	Mr. Giannoulis, you've been in ten minutes, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u165	The man who strongly criticised SYRIZA, but was able to inspire a whole world with his conscience, his struggle for ideals rather than for smuggling the press "we persecute political opponents". Your conscience will be either your trap or your shield so that you can look outside the world, considering that you are serving Parliament rather than the undergrounds of the Great Maximos. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u166	The President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Dimitrios Koutsoubas, has the floor now. Here, Mr President, please, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u167	Ladies and gentlemen, following this morning's debate in the House, I was thinking of a surreal poem we talked about in our childhood, very old: "Arabs and spoons, radishes and lettuces, a slipper on the bed, suffering that love has, nice that Leivadia is for no reason". So much psychiatricity! While the pandemic has hit'red', while the records break one after another the cases in cases and in tuberculosis, while the public health system has collapsed and the private not only is not imposing, but also doing gold jobs from above, when new super memorials are being imposed, what more convenient, what is more disorientative than a debate about the establishment of a further pre-requesting committee! In recent years, we've lost count. A large number of pre-examination, committees of inquiry, which offer a spectacle and which, in the end, only cover the deepest causes of the interdependence of the various urban parties with the various economic, business interests. Really, what is being urgent today is another one of these pre-reviews? For the people and their problems, they certainly don't. However, for the governments concerned, for the urban political system discussions like today are also considered 'oxygen' to hide the miserable reality and to maintain a disorientative bipolar confrontation. That is why our rapporteur and our Members have already been placed in this committee. The JRC's position is that the New Democracy's proposal is not substantiated by the elements that have so far been known to all parties. Of course, a committee of inquiry could be set up in this House to investigate all aspects of the case and the responsibilities arising for political persons and former ministers. In any case, the JRC is clear: All governments, between them and SYRIZA, as now and the New Democracy, are trying to play political games with the media, with the big businessmen who control the information. Of course, for many years this area has been a privileged field of both the New Democracy and the PASOK and for many it is still. SYRIZA tried to get into the media game, attempting to redistribute the pie among big business interests again, with new "gets" next to the old ones and even at a time when the old media ownership status had come to a standstill, due to the ten-year economic crisis. Improved ‘deck’ and illustrating new correlations in the business field. That was the substance and the deepest purpose of the Pappa Law and the competition for permits. And, of course, it was not to protect the good of information or to pay the canalarchs for permits. And we are sure that the then government of SYRIZA made an effort to facilitate business that was close to it at the time. It is no coincidence that, after the tender, the discounts to the owners for the price they had to pay were introduced and were favourable to other activities. And finally, in the midst of a pandemic, the New Democracy Government has now come to give them the entire annual instalment of EUR 3.5 million. In fact, this is about 3,400,000 euros! You make them pay 50 grand. Don't be so tough! You give them money that could be used to support the public health system, for schools, for public transport, to support workers, to meet other urgent needs and many problems. So SYRIZA, who is today protesting about the situation in the information sector, has broadly signed it in this television scenery. Because he also delivered information to the great interests. When the Pappa Act was passed and we told you that there could not be any real objective information when it was in the hands of the great businessmen, then you had ridden the reed and what did you say to us and indeed to say? "The channels are sports for big wallets," you said. Rejoice with them, gentlemen of SYRIZA, the big "vehicles", because the large "wallets will organise" information based on their own economic, political, business interests and, above all, the multi-faceted engagement they seek to have with the political system and the government parties every time. And that, because it simply cannot be distracted from the information as a good, as a right and not as a commodity, as it is today, by who owns the media. Also, when we told you then that there were no safeguards in place for there to be an elementary pluralism in this context, what did you do? You voted together with the New Democracy and the Movement of Change the composition of the National Broadcasting Council, which, today, almost everyone is now saying in this House, is a decorative element in all this immunity, in all this arbitraryness of the canalarchs. Of course, you say 'yes, but for the first time the canals paid'. So what? They paid a very small price in relation to the over-profits they have. It's not like it's been wasted, that is, it's where we're talking. But really, how much do you cost? How much does it cost to the mid-anarchism that we live today and which goes hand in hand with repression and authoritarianism? How much is the mononomial of the dominant political ideology cost? How much is brain washing, manipulation, blocking parties such as the JRC, which are permanently and firmly not represented in the channels, according to the official figures of the National Broadcasting Council, and even regardless of what the Government is? So don't pretend to be innocent pigeons. You are all co-responsible, SYRIZA, New Democracy and Change Movement for today's downhill. That is why you are not even discussing the substance of this matter. Your poorness is to do the "coops" in here to confuse the world. But other issues are the crucial issues, ladies and gentlemen. The hours and days are very critical of the pandemic that affects the Greek people. It is crucial that protection measures are taken everywhere, especially in the workplaces, to "move" the vaccination of the population with access to all available vaccines, to shield the public system, to proceed with the appointment of major private hospitals. We will tell you again: It is incomprehensible and criminal to deny the order of major private clinics at this time. It is incomprehensible and criminal that health businessmen continue to treasure on life, on the pain of thousands of our fellow people. And this crime on the altar of profit is neither forgotten nor recorded! We understand your inability to support with convincing arguments your refusal to oversee the private sector. But let go of mocking aside, because what else of mocking can be what your Minister says in response to the demand for the order? At this time, he says, the national system in the country is one and it is one, one health district, one large hospital, the public sector, the private sector, the Armed Forces with the health structures they have, they have united their forces in order to successfully deal with the pandemic together. That's what you're saying. Are you serious? Do you want to tell us that the private sector has made available infrastructure, that it has made available its staff to deal with the pandemic? It's time for you to tell us that he's doing it unhappily and that he's stopped revelating even in the pandemic. So, tell us, since the system is a single one, as you say, now that the 'Red Cross', which has one of the best neurological units that makes thrombolysis, necessary intervention for brains, has come out of the on-call, where are these events now taking place? Are they going to Metropolitan, which advertises that it has a specialised unit and an increased care unit for thrombolysis? So who are you kidding? Do you still want to tell us which private hospital, since the Red has turned into COVID, will patients be treated with multiple sclerosis? We have in mind the communication from the Coordinating Committee on Disabled People, which notes that a number of years of suffering has been informed by public hospitals that their treatments are being stopped. A characteristic case of the hundred and fifty patients with multiple sclerosis who stopped their treatments at the “Red Cross”. Similar problems also arise in the suspension of the operation of the physician epilepsy in the ‘Generalities’. Do you want to tell us what is going on with treatments for patients with other serious illnesses, for those who have delayed surgery, medical appointments, serious examinations that they need and early diagnosis? [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Of course, in order not to blame you, your Minister, with the single public and private sectors, describes your health strategy, how, through a single operation of the public and private sectors, won or large business groups in health. Such a public health system you want, traded, degraded, to do gold jobs for health dealers either by closing jobs with the public or by selling health services to private structures. That is why you have devastated some to attack the struggling trade unionists and health workers. When they offer you their services as parrots some time as rabbits. "After pandemic, the time of the government for bold reform of health," says your well-known "patient", known and unexplainable! In other words, how will private health groups gain even more. This will be the content of which health reform. This is the supposed result of the harmonious coexistence of the public with the private sector that you have all made a flag of your policy in this critical period. Whatever you and your "pads" do, the whole people know that hospital doctors with the feds give them the battle to save human lives. That's why they reveal your criminal responsibilities. Tomorrow, the President of the Association of Workers of the hospital "Savas" Kostas Efforts is fired. He is the only subsidiary doctor throughout the country who did not receive an extension of his contract until October. At this time when the system needs recruitment, you are making redundancies and even revenge. Take the hamburger: You will not shut the mouth on the hospital doctors. You see that even mass vaccination is too late for it to be truly massive in order to achieve long-lived immunity. However, if you had heard the JRC which, from the very beginning, proposed direct access to all available vaccines internationally, which are considered safe, of course, in order to ensure adequate, that the mass vaccination of the population is carried out in a timely manner, it would be different today. Now what are you doing? You are simply throwing time at precious, ballast and the European Commission, thus participating in the cruel criminal competition between the various groups of the drug, which, however, costs human lives. Ladies and gentlemen, one more matter. What we hear a few days after the European Union summit and the Prime Minister's conversation with the new President of the United States is a reminder, because laughter is not going through really very dangerous and much more do not allow the government's overly wise assessments. What did the summit and the joint declaration of twenty-seven for relations between the European Union and Turkey show? That the European Union defines its position in the bazaars evolving on the basis of the interests of the European monopolies and the promotion of a strategic relationship with Turkey. Any other interpretation, any other assessment belongs to the fantasy sphere and not to reality. All parties to the Euro-Atlantic arc have been irreparablely exposed. There have also been false expectations of the role of the European Union this time, over-realistic estimates of sanctions, which have actually turned into a Ping Pong ball, which is transferred from three to three in three months. On the issues of Greece's involvement in the planning of NATO, the European Union, the United States of America, there is an absolute, unambiguous association of the Government with Acoustic Anti-Policy and other parties of the Euro-Atlantic Arc. For Greece's involvement in their slaughterhouses, they do not raise tons. There's a peculiar one. You all say that this involvement is a shield for the people and the country. It's a big lie. It is only a source of new major risks. This is also confirmed by the Greek Prime Minister's conversation with the President of the United States. The US reports on the role of Greece in the Eastern Mediterranean, in the western Balkans, in the Black Sea are related only to increasing competition from the United States of America with Russia and China, but also to preparing for co-existence in the Aegean Sea, in the Eastern Mediterranean for the benefit of American and European energy groups. They mark the dangerous involvement of Greece in these designs marked by this involvement the upgraded role of the Souda base and the tens of other new bases that turn our country and our people into a goal. And do not you understand that neither you of the government nor you of the SYRIZA, who dare also make progress as the clamping on the killings of NATO and the United States of America with their pursuits from the Middle East to the Balkans and the borders with Russia. Given the unanimous aim of the United States of America, NATO, but also of the European Union to maintain Turkey at all costs in the West, what is left to say to reassure? Some targeted leaks of the press "if you need anything, I'm here to help." It touches the limits of the phone farce, when everyone knows that US aid all these years is the legalisation of Turkey's unacceptable claims to the Aegean and eastern Mediterranean, the legitimisation of the occupation army in Cyprus and that the tone of aid exported by the US to the Balkans, North Africa, in the Middle East, has been soaring death and refugee. The people and memory have a criterion. He understands that this involvement of the country in such dangerous plans for a few is a symbol of profits and investment, but for the Greek people he smells of a further economic crisis, of military involvement, of refugee, problems, of uncertainty. So all this concerns the Greek people, the Greek youth, and not the "Here's Poppas, there's Poppas, where's Poppas?" which we hear repeatedly in here today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Snowides has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u169	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are here to discuss the proposal for a preliminary examination committee. Several figures have been here for months, which are understandable even to us who are not legal. The question is this: Does the House, according to the law, owe this preliminary examination? The answer is clear and is identified by the Constitution, is identified by the law. Since 2003, when there has been a complaint against a Minister, this procedure has to be followed. The question I raise is: If these charges were to be directed against a citizen, if these charges were to be directed against another administrative structure, to a Secretary-General, Director-General, Mayor or District Administrator, would they go directly for preliminary examination? So if we want all to be equal, always with the logic of the law, the protection of the Ministers - because there are many malnutritions against the Ministers - we say here that we have some complaints that are critical and to be investigated. So it is a good proposal, because we must all keep the political process together, the politicians and the politics, which has been smashed and beaten in the last few years in a brutal way. We see paranormals coming out, because the policy is supposedly not doing its job well. Yes, indeed, some persons did not do their job well, and they had to get rid of them and were released from the people themselves. But all the politics, all the politicians? Of course not! It is also important: They say that Calogritsa is an unreliable witness. But all the things that came to the House from the Ice Bay Attorney's office do not only concern statements by this particular Mr. Kalogritsa. And when was Calagris unreliable? When he made all this effort, regardless of Mr. Pappas, which we honor for both his intelligence and his action? But, from there on, is he the only one who testifies? Didn't Marinakis and other great canals deposited for other money? The question was also asked: "Did you take a license of 3 million?" The answer is: 'Sure not'. Only there was a possibility, as an invisible partner, for a company after 3 to be another 25. In that sense, we say it was the beginning and it stopped at the beginning. Anyway, we hear today that Mr. Kalogeris is unreliable. I agree he's unreliable. They must not take into account the facts or there is a tendency to safeguard the people we will probably vote for - and I will be one of them - in favour of the creation of a preliminary, in the logic of 'we're screwed, look out, do not press it too'. What should we press? We're looking at real facts. What I would like to conclude with, in order not to abuse the time, is this: what would like and would help the political system very much is my request, Mr Nicos Papapas, to say 'I want it to be done', to clarify the evidence. To be clear! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We didn't draw any conclusions. It's something that's under review. But here, in this Chamber, I myself have been here many times, because some malicious people have denounced me as mayor. There have been too many colleagues with different qualities. We have all asked for the waiver of our immunity. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So it would be a huge contribution to the political system to say that in the House we are not afraid of any prosecutor, no false witness, any of those who say they denounce. But we still have to investigate it. That is what we will do, that is what we must do not in terms of person, but in terms of proper functioning and legitimacy. I'm closing, Madam President, in 15 seconds. The situation is really difficult. I'm only talking about the subject. I will not speak either if the vaccines became well or anything else, neither for Greek-Turkish nor for Europe. We are discussing a very specific issue here, of course, with the exception of the political leaders who can talk about all the issues. From there on, we will talk about this issue and here we must have a very clear position. Do we want to help improve people's confidence in politicians and politics? Yeah, we're here at any time, any one of the parties has any complaints of an offence that can be brought to justice. Because after the preliminary, if evidence is obtained either goes forward or does not go ahead, a natural judge will judge this and the Members will not judge it. This is the major issue of purely, passively, democratically. There's no facial empathy. The political landscape must be transparent, clean and it is a great opportunity for Nikos Papapas to rub on the face of those who say that they are denounced his innocence through the processes. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u170	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mrs Giannakopoulou has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the proposal for New Democracy Members to set up a Committee of Inquiry to investigate any criminal responsibilities of former Minister of SYRIZA, Mr Nikos Papapas, on the Kalogritsa case with television licences. The proposal relates to offences of bribery and breach of duty. We as a Change Movement have a clear position, ladies and gentlemen. The political office "all in light" is inextricable for us. We are committed to the need for full investigation and resolution of all cases with alleged involvement of a political person, regardless of party origin. I would remind you that the PASOK in 1989, when it was targeted and blamed on the person of our historic founder and leader, had as a request the clearance and voted for the referral of his own members. This is therefore a time-consuming position for us, and that is why we will be voting in favour of the proposal. Every shadow, even at the expense of the political system, must be investigated and treated according to the Greek Constitution and the laws, otherwise it is a focal point of our own democracy. For no one, ladies and gentlemen, there is no immunity or cannot be understood to be specific protection. For whoever there is evidence of criminal responsibilities, however high it is, it should be treated equally with Greek citizens. This is a democratic debt and respect for equality, equal treatment for all Greek citizens. I would therefore suggest to all colleagues, and of course also to SYRIZA's colleagues, that they vote on the proposal, if they really care about transparency, if we really want to investigate everything, based on the principles of democracy and the rule of law, and not on mud to the fan, not with protected witnesses, not with people's courts in social media. So I do not understand, ladies and gentlemen, the reactions of the SYRIZA. They're shouting that the government's deadlock and that's why they're saying it's moving the case. I, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, criticise the government who has been so late, with the risk of quoting any responsibilities. Since July, we have been reading about the complaints made by Mr. Kalogrisa and his press reports. It's been months. What were we waiting for? They call out how it is possible for someone to take Mr. Kalogerica seriously? Here, ladies and gentlemen, I raise my hands high. Was it not your choice, ladies and gentlemen, from SYRIZA, that he had no privileged treatment from Attica Bank, was it not connected to the pastures, is it not that it was on his behalf that he was cut as far as he could, as far as the work for the National Patras - Tower, Mr. Kalogritsas was not your choice to support the famous "SYRIZA TV" and he was running to attend all events and all the speeches of Mr. Papa? They're yelling that we have pandemic now. So what? So what? In times of crisis, can anyone do whatever they want or may not be controlled for any criminal offences? Who, really, do you think you're convinced of what you're talking about? How much lack of bravery, but also of faith, really faith, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, in transparency and in the institutional procedures of the rule of law are you speaking to us? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Madam President. And since we are discussing this proposal, it is worth reminding ourselves at that time, when SYRIZA tried in every way to control the media, when he targeted and closed channels, when under an anti-constitutional law he set up a parody contest, which reminded me of 'Big Brother'. At the same time, ten leading political persons were accused of being on the basis of funny complaints from protected witnesses, and at the same time there was an outlawing, para-stated circuit, for which I hope justice will soon be decided, as appropriate and as appropriate. I'm sure it wasn't the best moments of our post-military democracy. So then Mr. Kalogritsas became known as the future strong media man, essentially as a participant, as he claims, in a company scheme, which would take with the actions of the responsible Minister of Channel license, which would essentially belong to SYRIZA, who also benefited from the creation of the station and not Mr. Kalogritsas himself. It is then complained that a ‘CCC’ was requested and given to a company by Mr. Kalogrisa the amount of EUR 3 million for the issue of a guarantee letter of equal value for participation in the tender by ensuring that it was granted a licence. At that time, after the tender had been cancelled, it ensured the return of 3 million to Mr Kalogritsa's company of interests, while the guarantee had been swallowed and was asked to give him that 3 million to issue the pro-government form 'DOCUMENTO'. Then it is reported that Mr. Nearmenas was asked to give 51% of his television medium to Mr. Kalogrisa to acquire this channel, which would be controlled by SYRIZA. So, during that period, these serious irregularities and illegality are being denounced. Ladies and gentlemen, complaints are very serious. The House has no right to remain silent. None of us have the right to remain silent. To set up a pre-review, therefore, to invite all those who need and to shine light on everything, that is our constitutional, democratic duty. This is our duty to the Greek women and the Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Bartzokas from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today Parliament has an important opportunity to exercise its institutional role with responsibility, courage and faith in the truth. There are no enemies in here, nor are there any political persecutions, as the SYRIZA colleagues have repeatedly said. There are only institutional procedures and institutional powers, and all of us must serve them, aware of our role. The only battle to be given is this one among the darkness with light and light to win. In today's debate Parliament is called on to decide whether the proposal to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee is acceptable to carry out a preliminary examination in accordance with the Constitution and the relevant laws. Its object in the event of acceptance will be to investigate criminal offences that may have been committed by the former Minister of State, Mr. Nikos Papapas, and compare the offences of donation on a continuing basis and the violation of duty. Examination of the facts of the case-file which has been brought to Parliament and which is based on the proposal, namely Mr Kalogritsa's name-marked complaint against the former Minister and the relevant statements, makes our vote a self-evident obligation. Controlling serious evidence of anti-institutional behaviour by him to the extent of criminal offences is dictated by our legal framework, but mainly by our conscience as parliamentarians. Mr Kalogris denounces that, acting under the suggestions of Mr Papa and other senior officials, he agreed to participate as a visible partner, 'forward', in a company claiming a television licence in the known competition - fiasco, whose legislative basis was considered unconstitutional, as we all remember. It speaks of virtual agreements and contracts of non-existent sub-contracting with a foreign company, which Mr. Kalogricas agreed to conclude, always at the suggestion of Mr. Papa, with the sole aim of creating a SYRIZA channel to serve the political pursuits of the then government and the falsification of its opponents. He claims that the claim for a television licence was superficial, as he would simply put his name on account of his trust and strong links with the Left and in particular his "first time left". The behind-the-scenes partner, the missing construction company abroad, who would bring the price of television licence and through it the minds of the entire project, Mr. Pappas. Mr Kalogeritsa himself mentions the fact that he was carrying out orders from the former Minister of State and other senior officials, he mentions the former Minister as inspiring of the project, but also as bringing him into contact with the invisible partners and who carried out the project to this end - fortunately - to fail definitively. In short, in his complaint, Mr. Kalogritsa portrays the existence of a web of interacting between the former Minister, the same and a foreign construction company. A triangle, therefore, which, according to Mr Kalogritsa's words, was intended to manipulate public opinion by creating a channel of 'their hands', violating all the rules on competition, plurality and freedom of the media. Ladies and gentlemen, going back a few years, I would like to remind you of something. During the elaboration and discussion in the House of the Law on Television Licences, the notice of the relevant competition signed by the former Minister, the New Democracy had been placed responsiblely and warned of the dangers it posed and of the interlocutory relationships it was developing in oligopolis. He warned of the new contract "double and received" between political and media that brought SYRIZA's signature. At that time the project collapsed from the "shack" of legality imposed by the S.H.E., with whose decision the competition – parody – and the law of Papa – was written in the sphere of history from the wrong side. Just a few years later, there is sufficient evidence that Mr. Papapas, taking advantage of his position as Minister, responsible for supervising the media, and in particular for conducting the competition for national television licenses, was acting behind the scenes in order to create a channel that would appear to be the owner of Mr. Kalogrisas and would in fact be completely controlled by the SYRIZA party. The questions which arise following the quote of the relevant information are as follows: Can Parliament not go ahead with an in-depth investigation through its institutional instruments in the face of such serious complaints and indications? Is it possible to allow the suspicion of exploiting an institutional position to serve interests contrary to the public interest which are mocking our democracy and its quality, turning it into a meagre spectacle? I think the answers are obvious and must be clear to the Greek people. We therefore have a duty to respond positively to the setting up of a Pre-Audit Committee and to investigate in depth whether there was indeed a plan to alter the terms of the competition for television licences if the former Minister did get a plan - a model of interactivity, in order to gain gradual access to more and more joints of power. Having studied the elements of the case-file and been convinced of the sufficient evidence that makes good grounds for criminal violations of the former Minister, but above all by remaining faithful to the agreement of truth with the Greek people, to which the party of New Democracy has committed itself, I am voting in favour of the proposal to set up a Special Preliminary Committee. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u174	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Katsis has the floor now from SYRIZA. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, today the Greek Parliament is calling for a second time after the 2019 elections to discuss a proposal from the New Democracy for a Pre-review Committee against a former Minister of SYRIZA. First, it was the pre-examination set up for the former Minister of Justice, Dimitris Papagelopoulos, who tried to cover up an internationally proven scandal, that of "NOVARTIS" and to present it as a construction of SYRIZA. We now have another incident with the former Minister of State, Mr. Nikos Papapas, where a pre-inquiry is being set up today on the basis of a press report by Mr. Kalogritsa, who does not even know what exactly he is accusing him of, with so many ridiculous contradictions that are described in the case-file. In the case we are discussing today, however, your motives are even more humble, more desperate and testify to your political poverty. Your first objective: you wish to change the agenda to hide the incredible failure of your Government in the pandemic with the eight thousand dead, the economy with the greatest recession in history, but also to maintain the "anti-SYRIZA" front, which is now "not selling". Proof? See when you announced the recommendation in this respect. Two days after the unbelievable riots of the state of staff in Nea Smyrni, where you managed to raise the housewives. Congratulations to your communications scientists for your autogols. Secondly and above all: You are also operating as an anti-government and as a government at the request of the canalarchs, because you know very well that they have brought you to power and if you are not being criticised by us, but one tenth of this criticism, your government will fall the next day. It is true that the triangle of interlocutory, media, banks and political system never forgave to SYRIZA, Nikos Pappa, Leuteris Cretso and Alexis Tsipras an effort to cut off the thread of mutual support of his tops. Top act was that we kept our election promise of the 2015 elections on the licensing of the canals, as the state had to have done since 1989, with the emblematic n.4339 that is still in force today, Mr. Comrade you spoke in Stepma earlier than I did. The New Democracy, with its refusal to recommend the PSE and the vote of Mr.4339 "has set back" to continue the status of free and unregulated landscape. N.4339 stated that the National Broadcasting Council is responsible for the competition, but you blocked its recommendation to avoid the competition being called and that we should not step back from our political choice of the Greek people's approval, we proposed that the first and only competition be held by the Secretariat-General. This decision went down in the S.T.E., not the law. The competition for the first competition procedure. And what did that say? Appraisal the cost, too. Thirty-five million per licence and on this basis the channels were licensed in the second competition by the National Broadcasting Council. Did we only collect 210 million from the licence? Oh, no. We also collected frequency charges, collected advertising tax, 145 plus 45, that is 200 million and from there. Law 4339 also provided for four hundred people with a minimum number of jobs per channel, with full-time contracts, which protected and doubled jobs, then jobs in the channels. As a government, what did you institutions do? You have reduced the number of television channels employees required by the four hundred of Law 4339 in the three hundred forty-five of the Petsa-Levanios law, opening the way for redundancies and reductions. In fact, the past Christmas there were major strikes on the channels, where the workers in fact defended the law of SYRIZA, while a "photographic" gift that you went to go through for "ANT1" raised reactions, the reaction of "SCAI" and "MEGA", which stated that the rules of Law 4339 are being violated. And what did you do? You got this article back. So you managed, with the Petsa-Levanios bill, to get workers and canalarchs to defend Law No.4339, proof that it is in force and that the 'crystalline' arrangements of the equivalence that this law ensured are in force. And you come here today to blame us for applying this law? Shame on you! You pay the media back to support and you continue to buy political support with scandalous provisions. What first to do after 2019? Exemption from denomination of shares in companies active in all types of the media, as well as printing and distribution companies. Exemption from obligation to submit ‘undertakings’ of the shareholders of companies involved in the joint link of the channels. You have subsidised the channels from the Development Act for equipment and programme, while you have exempted them from the obligation to broadcast high-definition and are already compensated by the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. You gave money transparently and without criteria where you wanted and those you wanted to check the information. Eleven plus nine plus two Petch with his lists. Fourteen and a half regions, three for the homosexual campaign and eighteen and a half for the vaccination campaign. You also thanked 20.7m euros for the 2020 dose that they had to pay for the Pappa law. In total, in a year and a half, 77.5m euros of hot money in the media. The result is a dystopic field in information, where pro-government propaganda has nothing to be jealous of the authoritarian regimes. What was your name on Nikos Pappa, Georgia? Well, that's exactly what's coming back to you. You're Pharisees and hypocrites! We, that is, for the first time since 1989, have been corrupted and we wanted to check the information, while you who prove to be taking out the fund every month and giving them payments, are an act in favour of pluralism, independence and you are democrats and institutions! What can anyone say? I mean, the cucumbers got up to hit the manaves! That's what this is about. And you blame for corruption the only government that didn't steal and prove is the EUR 37 billion pugging we left in and received a legacy. With what evidence? With the information to which the next speaker will be referred, which is Nikos Pappas. Giannis Ragussis was also mentioned, and I will be tabling the figures in the Minutes, because the crucial thing, which is from today's debate, is where these 3 million euros went. Yannis Ragus told you. On 13 January 2017, the Council of State decided to cancel the licence competition. On January 17, 2017, four days later, the company "Joannis - Vladimir Kalogris" reduces its share capital by 3 million euros in favour of the shareholder. So, Chepee, Mr. Kalogrits! Cheap and those who vote in favour of the Committee of Inquiry are likely to offer services to your latest contractor, you are acting as subcontractors to the Kalogrisa and the canalarchs. What for? So he wouldn't pay his private difference with a third person. So I'm presenting in the Minutes the evidence of GEMI showing that Mr. Kalogritsa put it in his pocket, Mr. Ploiris. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Here, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - and I am closing up with this - it is like investigating a murder case where there is no body, when there is no weapon and evidence, with charges for someone who has passed his mind to do the murder. The vote today goes without saying a dignified attitude. The government is disorientated by the zoo that exists in society and behaves as a "whisupply" of canalarchs. But the real scandals you produce every day will be examined by the next House, be sure. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u176	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Nikos Pappas has the floor from SYRIZA now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, when in September 2016 in a field that was multiple suffocated and in economic suffocation for the country, the competition for television licences was finalised by ensuring that EUR 250 million - and I admit it self-criticism - we have predicted that our party and I personally would have been at some point invoked by you for that very reason. We should have predicted it because you have just had your nest dirty for decades in such a way that you would decide to move against us. Move against us, watch out - and I want the National Representation and the Greek people to listen to it - for a process in which the public has not spent any money, it has received money. I say again, he didn't spend any money, he collected money. What money? The money you systematically refused to collect, by systematically violating the Constitution, and I will come to it below, because a lot has been heard about the notorious Ν.4339. Our government and I personally were attacked, blackmail, slander, slander. Why? Because we wanted, loyal to our programme and to our oath in the Constitution, to implement what the Constitution provides for, television stations must be licensed. You were going for years by violating it, by circumventing, by ignoring, in the oldest of your shoes, the successive decisions of the Council of State which said that the extension of the operation of television stations without a licence is contrary to the Constitution. Allow me, then, to make a personal reference. I am proud to take this step on the occasion of perforation, fragmentary and insulting to the common sense of the New Democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I have done my duty to the advantage of the Greek people, as I have sworn to do, as I have to do against my ideas and against the fact that I have the honour and the burden of serving. This political choice of the New Democracy is the product of inconsistent competition, competition between the dome and the stalemate of the New Democracy. The dolphin against the interests and the enthusiasm to the Greek people. Over the last few months, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we have been following with the Greek people the works and days of Mr. Mitsotakis' government. It was the fate that today's debate was taking place on a day marked by a negative record on pandemic with those beyond the seven hundred crossings and rumours saying that four thousand cases may be written today! And we find that with painful pain! At the same time, your supposed excellence is unfolding throughout all its greatness: scandalous regulations, direct assignments, smuggling of public money. Any one of you thinks that these will pass abundant drinks or be forgotten makes a huge mistake. The time will come when these will be checked. And they'll be tested in detail. Watch what you're doing today. You start this process, because we dared to collect on behalf of the public what you had never dared, at the same time that you signed the direct assignments for things that you needed and you don't need the Greek State. I would like to say very gladly: keep an eye on what a political precedent you are building! So I urge you to think now that the leadership of the New Democracy comes in and set up this set of pre-request committees to hit a party and a party, in order to hit the political force that it managed to unleash the country from the memoranda, create four hundred thousand jobs and leave state funds filled for the first time in the history of the Greek state. You will be invited to vote at the end of this sitting. So I urge you to think that this is a case where the public received money and did not spend it. There is no category of overcompensation that has been made for a commission or a public project. There is not even - you have not dared to shed it - a charge that we have received less than we should have received. What's there? There is an urban difference between two businessmen and we have the New Democracy - look out - to adopt part of the arguments of one part of this urban dispute, to ignore the positions of the other side, to ignore the relevant decisions of the courts and to break, as I have said before, any record of bounty and grief. It also ignores, of course, the contradictions on the part of which it has decided to adopt the account and calls for the change from our own governance, which the Constitution has for the first time applied to the television scene and collected money for the public. The drowned one, of course, is caught by his hair. And the New Democracy, in the chain of failures, is caught by the hair of a failed party in the licensing process, who files a series of unfounded, false and contradictory claims four years after the completion of the competition. And I invite you to think why this might be the case. This was excluded from the tender because it did not pay the first instalment for the licence. And at the very time, the EUR 3,000, which it had tabled in the letter of guarantee, were committed in favour of the public. So that's how much we helped him. We committed him the money, and we ruled him out of the contest! If one reads the text you have tabled on the proposal of a preliminary inquiry committee, I do not know whether it should be crying or laughing. Half the claims you're catching, reproducing them and testifying to them for the establishment of the Pre-Association Committee. It is so empty that your proposal has flowed too much water into the groove. And the previous speakers have said so. It has been heard four thousand thirty-nine times that n.4339 is unconstitutional. He's not unconstitutional. I am sorry that we have to inform you from this point of view that it is not unconstitutional. The channels are currently operating on the basis of L.4339. Is that why you're not informed? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I'm coming down. It has, I think, enough information about my position on legal matters as well. We'll all be wiser, and I'll be ready to hear the counter-projects. Consider the historical irony, therefore, because this sinful story has started since 1989, when the field of private television has been opened. And then who's getting licenses? There is a blurred legal landscape, where a choice is made on the basis of which there is the criterion that says there is experience in the press and information. As a result, existing issuers were allowed. The first permit is received by the TELETYPOS company, which took MEGA CHANNEL into the air in the autumn of 1989. Shareholders: Christos Lambrakis, Bardes Vardinoyannis, George Bobolas, Kitsos Tegopoulos, Aristides Alfouzos. New Year, 'ANT1 TV'. Shareholders: Sunday Minos, Mars Budouris, Yiannis Pournaras and Christos Kalogris. The institutional gap was therefore complete. Three years later, special local and regional licences were issued, as well as regional and local stations' networking permits. We must, of course, admit that the first attempt to settle the television scene is made in 1995 by the Venizelos Act. A few months after the Venizelos law was passed, Mr. Venizelos is removed from the Ministry. What does the law provide for? It provides for a Minister's decision - be careful and note the notice of a specific number of permits. Remember what we had said about the number of licences, how unconstitutional it was, etc. What was eroded against me by this Step is not said because we said that the number of licences, in the absence of an EPP, had to be decided by the Secretariat-General for Information. It therefore provided for a specific number of licences, their granting and for the first time a competitive procedure by the National Television Council. For the first time, there is an attempt to implement this law in 1997. Minister was Dimitris Reppas. Unfortunately, this effort is delayed and the competition is declared barren five years later, in 2002, on the Ministry of Christos Protopas. The channels, then, continue to operate without permission. A year later, a new competition is being opened. Fifteen files were filed, they were processed, but then the 2004 elections came. I will surprise you below, telling you that in 2007, the Rusopoulos Act, which also provides for a competition. He, too, makes the number of permits subject to ministerial decision. And the Rusopulu law did something else. It provided for a minimum number of workers in the channels. Please think about what would happen if your President were here. Okay, he doesn't, he says, 'cause he's a government and the government shouldn't interfere with Parliament's. It could also be from the parliamentary seat. It's a bit of anger. Colleagues of the SYRIZA, let us all think together, Mr Mitsotakis, of eviscerating heavens with an infinite number of channels and of a Soviet type of regulation against us when we set the limit of four hundred workers. So the first inspirer was Mr. Rusopoulos. And she did well. He had a low limit. He had two hundred employees, and they didn't make it. And we did it in four hundred. But be careful what happened next. What's the story? Then the successive extensions begin, the'shoe and see'. In March 2007, an extension for June 2007 was given for June 2007 for the end of 2007 in February 2008 for October 2008, December 2008 for July 2009, July 2009 for December 2009, and I will not say "and so on" - in March 2010 and another extension, as in December 2010. And the banker comes in - Prime Minister with a magical move to give an extended indefinitely - listen, extended indefinitely - to the conscious violation of the Constitution. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] This was the priority of the banker - Prime Minister, this was the humiliation of the Greek democracy, the humiliation of the Greek political system, which was decentralised and the interests stepped on the neck, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. That's the simple truth. And they won for themselves things that don't belong to them. The political leadership is therefore co-operating in an indefinite violation of the Constitution. A new law comes in 2013. And he gets an extension for 2014. And the extension of January 2014 will be extended until the end of 2014. But, oh of the miracle - and here we may be sad - another extension was not given, because on 25 January we had the political change that brought SYRIZA to the position of governance. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] All these extensions are in contrast to four decisions of the Council of State, which note that the extension of operation without competitive procedures has been called into question, is contrary to the Constitution. So the Constitution was systematically violated. I'm going to testify about the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] They say, therefore, that this extension runs counter to the fundamental principle of the rule of law, from which it follows from the obligation of the State to guarantee citizens the faithful application of the law and to defend public goods, such as numerically limited radio frequencies and conflicts with the constitutional principle of equality, because the illegal owners of the channels are granted the market in television services, whose function is linked to the crucially important exercise of information and information rights. This is to see who also pays attention to the decisions of the Council of State. I'll come - don't worry - and what happened in our case. So what do we got? And here is the drama of your party. The application of the Rusopou law officially becomes a legal and constitutional pending issue from 2007, which was voted, until 2015, which we take over governance. So what was the situation we received? We have seen a licence for television stations, which have arrived for their own reasons - because that is the nature of private enterprises, their own interests are looking at, the political parties must know - to support even the owners of television stations. On September 20, 2016, after our competition, Mr.Giannis Vardinoyannis told the Committee of Inquiry into Jurisdiction on the Loan of Political Parties and Media Companies from Banks in Chora: “It may be illegal that there was no competition at that time. It should have happened all along. We businessmen risked our assets on temporary permits." What does that reveal? It reveals a procession, the construction of a deliberately illegal shadow situation, whereby the political system could constantly blackmail private companies with the illegal regime in which it had been pushed. Another characteristic is the overload of channels. Things and miracles were heard in the committee of inquiry, which our majority voted and organized. According to the Bank of Greece data submitted to the same Committee of Inquiry, SMEs in the country had received EUR 900 million. We're talking about debtless channels without permission. Another issue is frequency charges, adopted, legislated. They didn't collect anything. Our governance has received 45 million euros. Should we also postpone them, defer them to the 'basilop' amendments on 31 December of each year for 31 December of the following year? We didn't do that. What else did we pick up? We also received ERT which, in addition to the drama of the two and a half thousand people who had stayed on the street, ERT was closed when the contest for the digital broadcaster of the television signal took place. Can we talk about some kind of parade contests? There was only one shareholder. Who was the partner? The company set up by the private television stations. What was the provision of this contest? That they would not be declared barren, even if they had a participant and, of course, be careful now, if we had done that, you would have hanged us in the handkerchiefs - the conditions of the competition changed in flight. In other words, the time during which the contractor was obliged to develop the network was limited. As a result, only ‘DIGEA’ was involved. And we had reached the point - shameful for a democratic state and an organised state - public television to pay the private body to carry its signal. And that was solved by our own governance. What was the price for this contest? Let's say it now so we can cheer up a little. It was 18 million euros for 15 years. Be careful, for the whole country, the right to distribute a signal was EUR 18 million for fifteen years! In other words, anyone who wanted to broadcast a signal, move it and see it, whether a regional station or a pan-ellad company, paid this company, which had the exclusive right to distribute a signal. Keep the number and compare this number to the 35m euros paid for each licence at the moment, except for the 3,450,000 euro discount, which you reserve for the current year, and we will see what happens next. But hold the number and compare it. As far as jobs are concerned, when we took over, the private channels worked a thousand eight hundred people and six hundred in the NERIT format, that is, two thousand three hundred or two thousand four hundred in total. When the political change of 2019 took place, about three thousand people were working on private channels, two thousand three hundred at ERT and, of course, a lot of people were busy and had found work through the programme of strengthening audiovisual producers, which we put into practice. And I want at this point to thank both the Step of the Parliament and the personal friend, but also a worthy partner, the Deputy Minister of Digital Policy, Lefteris Kretsos, who did an amazing job and made for Greece the best real form of aid for audiovisual producers, so that even now, on the basis of our own law, you get the opportunity and you advertise them as yours. We have also received a constitutional deadlock, of course. In 2015, while the Constitution provides for permits, the National Broadcasting Council, responsible for the Constitution, has no legal composition. Where is this supposed to be? By the Council of State itself. Why? Because the channels appealed against fines imposed on them by the National Broadcasting Council and won because the Council of State decided that the PSE does not have a legal composition. Why doesn't he have a legal composition? Because he lived on the extensions of terms of his members. This was one of the serious mines that we had to take out and I will present in the minutes the relevant decisions of the Council of State which justifies the appeals of television channels to fines imposed by the National Broadcasting Council, which has no legal composition. Imagine with that composition that we were attempting to launch a competition for television licenses. Not even outside the S.T.E. It wouldn't pass. This was where the fines were due. Let's go down. So the attempt to set up the National Broadcasting Council is beginning. I would remind you that in its original version, Law 4339 provided for a competition by the National Broadcasting Council. We didn't invent the wheel. We didn't find out about America. I say it very much. We stepped on the Venizelos and Rusopou. However, we also had a revolutionary idea to apply the law, because laws were passed since the mid-1990s and were never implemented. That's what's bothering him. What's next? There were several meetings of the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament to set up a National Broadcasting Council, six. Take note, then, of what your party did in front of this unconstitutional deadlock. At first he asked for an extension to finish your inner-party. And it had whispered and Mr. Mitsotakis was also committed "Let's end with the election of the Head of the New Democracy and then we'll sit down and form...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u178	And Mr. Meimarakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u179	And Mr. Meimarakis. I missed that. In any case, that was moving. So we had the New Democracy's refusal. On January 19, 2016, the position of the New Democracy is worded as follows: "It exists and suffers..." - says its representative - "...a big question of principle. In particular, the responsibilities of the Minister, as laid down in the relevant Article... - do not bore - 'which provides for the number of licences to be the subject of a ministerial decision'. The spokesman of the New Democracy forgets, of course, that the law of Rusopou was exactly the same as the law of Rusopou. The second meeting, in February 2016, was fruitless. The new Republic shall foresee the same reasons. The next meeting, Mr Tragakis says on the subject: 'Years were voted on for the National Broadcasting Council, but whatever votes may be, the four-fifths will never be taken by the Government...' - our government, i.e. - 'it seems, neither for the National Broadcasting Council nor for the other independent authorities'. That was the official position of the New Democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Watch out. Not only does she have her hands dirty and her nest dirty, because we were in a field of unregulated violation of the Constitution, but she expressly states that she will not contribute. Of course, it was also the third meeting on February 9, 2016. On 19 October, following the competition of the licences, an application for the annulment of the 'ANT1' was pending in the Council of State against the decision to change the responsibilities of the competition to the Information Secretariat. The opposition has requested postponement until the S.E.L.D. ruled. On 26 October the Council of State decides by a marginal majority, 14-11, we also learned from the media that the tender had to be repeated by the PSE. Triumph for the New Democracy: 'The law has fallen'. 'Strapatsarized'. 'They have been proclaimed'. And what we didn't hear! But the truth comes in a little bit. Sit down and be patient. On 31 October it was another meeting where no majority was achieved. And of course, it comes out of "white smoke" on November 10, 2016 and we have a legal composition of the National Broadcasting Council after ten years. I told you before that the television scene and television stations are currently operating on the basis of Law 4339. Let us know. Don't be foolish about this Step here. Don't say things that don't apply. Here - I'll file it in the Minutes, you're asking to get a photocopy - it's television licenses. These are television licenses. There they are. It's the FEK of TV licenses. Do you know what it says in Article 4? ‘Taking into account Articles 1 to 15 of L.4339/2015’, gentlemen of the New Republic. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And after all, if you had any sign of honesty, compared to what you said when we voted that law, why don't you come and remove him? Why does not a nice morning get up, Mr. Mitsotakis wearing his nice smile and saying: "Children, the channels twenty-four since tomorrow, as I said in 2016." What do you make them a hundred and fifty eight? I don't understand. Do people believe you when you're opposition, or will you always say other than others, as you do on all matters? On what line, of course, you have taken comfort, even though in the final version you voted for eight articles, from Law 4339 and eleven of the Change Movement - I think that at that time, Democratic Reconciliation. But in what direction do you move? Move towards the elimination of the rights of workers and the public. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need more time, Madam President, if you're kind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u180	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u181	Now let's go to the contest. And there I would like to thank the people who have contributed the greatest to conducting this competition: both Lefteris Kretsos and the people of the competition committee, who are under the tomacle of judicial investigation, with the backs of yours. I think it is an act of absolute political cowardice, because I and the members of our government have said from the outset that if you want to seek responsibilities, this is us. And to attack public officials as political leadership when they dare and put the public interest above the partial private interest is an immoral thing. And this is a stigma that will follow you. You haven't had time to regret it and change the rota. So, what happened in this contest, which you've been enchanting for all tons for four years? In order to ensure complete transparency, we have foreseen the possibility of objections, pre-trial actions, the possibility of infringing management decisions. Do you know how many actions have been brought in the Council of State, how many applications for suspension and applications for interim measures? Over eighty! Do you hear that? More than eighty of all against everyone, against all against the command. And what was the S.T.A. saying? In all these phases? ‘Proceed’ for all eighty. We'll be there later. In order to reach the number of licences - and here I think we are all happy - we have addressed the Florence Institute. You remember that, don't you? You remember what you were telling us. Inform Mrs. Kerameos as well because she gave seven scholarships to children to study at the Institute of Florence a few days ago. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're hypocrites, gentlemen. You're hypocrites! With a bunch of unrelated journalists at that time you have demolished and slandered an institute, which is systematically working with the European Commission. So you can say what? That we don't know what we're doing, we don't know where we're going, we don't know where we're going, and we're getting out of our stomachs. Those were your narratives, and now good for Mrs. Kerameo, that's what I'm with 100%. In other words, I am not the CISCO 2 million and the metadata gift. I think we will have a long time to discuss this, but the fact that he dares to go over for your resignation and give scholarships for young children for the Florence Institute, I really want to welcome it and tell her to give more and more, because it is a special institute and, indeed, the people who will go there with a scholarship will be able to decorate after their term of office and the Greek administration but perhaps even the private sector. Well done, Mrs. Keramea. Study and design of the auction. There and what we didn't hear! "You locked them up, tortured them" and what we didn't really hear! The auction was designed on the basis of the experience of the National Telecommunications Commission, which had previously auctioned parts of the spectrum, and on the basis of a study by two professors of the Athens University of Economics, who specialize in the design of auctions. Where did we have to go? A cardboardian? And I say this with absolute respect for the people who believe and minister this service. So we planned a auction. I'm tabling a report on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As to the auction software, and what we didn't hear about it! Who developed it, you guys, the auction software? ‘SINGULAR LOGIC’. Who is ‘SINGULAR LOGIC’? It is the company that presents the results of national, European, regional and municipal elections! He wasn't that way either. You couldn't even get there. For the starting price we moved on the basis of the suggestion made by the company 'DELOITTE', which, okay, I think you all understand that it was not important, because the starting price for a good which ended up selling 40, 50 and 70 million was a very, very conservative estimate. So the contest's off. And what happens when the National Broadcasting Council is formed? He comes out with a unanimous decision and what does he say? That the only effort to value the good called "television license" was the 2016 competition and taking into account the 2016 competition, says that seven licenses are auctioned for 35m euros each. Seven permits for 35, a total of EUR 245 million. How much were we picking up? We had a total of 246. So, what did the National Broadcasting Council do with a unanimous decision? He came to say that the 2016 competition took place well in its internal operation and trusted him to assess the good of television licences. I am also making this decision of the National Broadcasting Council in the Minutes, with the signature of Mr Koutromanos, where, in our question, he says that he proposes the auctioning of seven licences for EUR 35 million each. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The PSE, therefore, said that the competition year and its results are a very serious driver. Let me tell you a bit of a tickle detail. 35 million was a starting price. What did the PSE say? That the minimum that the Greek State is entitled to expect is EUR 250 million for licences. But then another excuse comes for this contest. Where? From the Council of State. Because what do private channels do? They are against the decision of the National Broadcasting Council that says the starting price is 35 million. So they again appealed to the Council of State and said 'alas, there are many 35 million for starting-up'. And what does the Council of State say, ladies and gentlemen, in the New Democracy? And be careful here when you invoke it, especially in this particular case. I stress it, especially in this case. In reply: 'Minister applicants, you yourself have assessed the good at 250 million, and to tell us that the starting price of 35 is too much unstable' and rejects their application! I am therefore tabling the Minutes and this decision of the Council of State. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I'm telling you all this to be careful when you come up here and you play it right on television because you have nothing left. You have been left with a failure, which four years later comes and claims things contradictory. And I come to the bottom of your proposal. We have delivered the ERT and regulated the television scene and very strong conditions for employment, which you are fighting on the night and you are trying to get them out of the way, and as I have had the opportunity to say before, with a considerable increase in employment in all the pan-Hellenic channels. We have also collected advertising tax and frequency charges. I will submit in minutes my correspondence with the Independent Public Income Authority, which tells us that by September 2018 the receipts were EUR 160 million and I am sure that by July 2019, they would have exceeded EUR 200 million. I'm not talking about the license money. I'm talking about advertising tax and frequency charges. I am talking about taxes that have been voted on, which you have been postponing every year. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We managed, of course, to resurrect the Greek mythology. We had zero serials - let me say this - our children were seen as "Suleiman Megalotis" and some serials that produced to the greatest extent in Cyprus, and at the moment when the Greek mythology has literally been resurrected, the serials are many. We want it to be a lot, a lot of people work in Greek audiovisual production, a lot of foreign productions have come, and that is something you will find us in the position of accelerating counterpopulation. We will ask you, in other words, to retain this programme, to strengthen it, to finance it, because the creative industry cannot and must not be the ultimate victim of the crisis in which your prolongation has put us. So we come and tell you that this is what we did in the media field. We have opened up ERT, we have set up the pan-Hellenic channels, we have put on fair taxation, we have protected jobs, and you, instead of demanding an apology for the years of the operation and, of course, our retrospectiveness, as I have presented to you with the successive decisions and the Independent Authority and the Supreme Court, the Council of State, you are setting up a badly-familiar pranking prank, guided by evangelism, enthusiasm and contempt for the public interest. You are involved in a dispute between businessmen and, indeed, you take the side of one of the two, Mr. Kalogritsa. You include in your perforated and funny proposal only those that make it easier for you. You circumvent Mr. Kalogerica's contradictions in his various statements and the witness he called to testify and has told all tons that he was the exclusive, permanent and continuous ombudsman between Mr. Tobra's two companies, who has said that he did not speak English and Arabic and that the other one did not speak Greek, so they also needed a translator among others to be able to understand. What else are you missing? And that makes me impression, in fact, that you took the file on the case-file, they dealt with lawyers and said, 'Look at see, there is a decision of the Swiss Arbitration Court, which they have both agreed to, and there is disagreement on the application of the contract, we put aside, it doesn't matter'. And what else doesn't matter? The fact that the Athens Court of First Instance has made this decision enforceable. That doesn't even matter. It's not even mentioned! But aren't you embarrassed? Aren't you embarrassed? You come to tell us that you took the file, studied it, said things and wonders and concluded that these things must be ignored. Good for you! It's really impressive. In other words, there are court judgments of the International Court and judgment of Greek justice, which breaks down the basic arguments of one and the only or half of your witness, because the other half he says is not in your interest, and that is what you have decided to ignore. It makes sense - I think - because Mr. Kalogrisa's lawyer is Mr. Loverdos and his associate for years. Isn't that right? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] GPO? Our former interior minister! I have read some - so - pepperpot, 'to explore' - it says - 'the path of money'. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Oh, no, I'll tell you, Mr. Plori, don't exterminate yourself! Wait a minute! The money that the participating companies submitted for the tender was from letters of guarantee from Greek banking institutions. What does that mean? It means that the regulator of the Greek banking system has guaranteed their legitimacy. If you want a witness, then, in your pre-determined pre-examination, first you bring Mr Stournara to tell us whether there was money from legal or illegal activities and if he suggests that there was something like that, I will be the first to resort to justice against him. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because that's what we asked for. We had asked that the guarantee letters be from Greek banking institutions or institutions of the European Economic Area. And there the regulator has the first and last word. Let's go down. You ignore the positions, of course, of the people of the construction colossus and the e-mail that says that even after Mr. Kalogrissas was declared inferior, because he did not pay the money, they had discussed, exchanged e-mails, but also meetings to see how they would cooperate in the construction industry. Isn't that something you're concerned about? Doesn't he ask questions? Don't you ask the position of your main witness? Don't you think he might have a motive too - a little more humble? How, then, can you ignore this? So he claims in the record he had no money to put. In the statement he made, however, when he was expelled from the contest, he said he was losing 3 million euros himself. He claimed he had no money to put on, but his witness says they had agreed with the foreign colossus to put from 25 million euros. Did that surprise you, too? Disperse your attention and this element? There isn't that anywhere. Let's go down. 'The money' - it says - 'they went to 'DOCUMENTO'. You were unhappy here, and Yannis Ragus said it before, and Marios Katsis said it. I will read out the first item, I will not do anything else: "On 8-2-2017" - says the "PRO theme" - "at a time when Kalogritsa has lost his insolvency the television licence is registered in the company's General Communication to amend the statutes. Firstly, the name is changed and renamed ‘MEDIADOC’, secondly, it is announced that the company is moving to write back capital and return cash to its sole shareholder of EUR 3 million. Then, according to the same report, there are other capital reductions. I am presenting in the Minutes and his statement, when he has withdrawn, and of course, the newspaper 'PRO THEMA' published, which says that the company has proceeded with a number of capital reductions. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Not to mention, of course, other contradictions, which says that we told him to give the shares to Vaxebana and in fifteen days he goes and changes his statement and says "when I said shares, I didn't mean shares, but some of the assets that I was told to deliver again". In any case, this is now - I think - a characteristic of how serious these claims are about which you have set up this ridiculous real story. There is no reference, of course, to the decision of the International Arbitration Court, your proposal, which on page 33, says that the applicant has not responded to the burden of proof by simply claiming a proposal and without any proof that this agreement is a false agreement. Consequently, the agreement cannot be considered void, under the applicable Swiss substantive law. And there's another argument - hold on! - for claiming that the agreement is virtual, because the signatory of the Greek company did not speak English. Do you understand that? It goes on to say that the agreement I signed is invalid, because the signer doesn't know English! I imagine that this has also dispersed your attention, you have not noticed. You had a couple of months in front of you, but you didn't have the luck of falling into these details. The Court of First Instance also comes in and says "recognises and declares an enforceable ruling issued in Geneva, Switzerland, etc.". I present myself to the Minutes and to the decision of the Court of Justice and the decision of the Athens Court of First Instance. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go down. Who saw what the Pope said, what he told them, what I asked them to do. I've seen them all, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. I've seen Mr. Vardinoyannis, and Mr. Marinakis, and Mr. Kyrikos, and Mr. Savvidis, and Mr. Kalogritsa, and Mr. Alafouzos, and Mr. Kontomenas, and Mr. Vryonis. All of them! All those who were on the market asked that there should be no competition and no one else enter the market should not be licensed because they considered them to be licensed. Then, when they realized that we would insist, they asked if an authorisation was made, that there should be no competitive procedure. When they understood that we would insist again, they asked if it were done, that there should be no price for permits, and that if there is a price for permits, it should be too low. After the competition, those who got licensed said 'a great competition, why does it have to change something?' And those who had not got permission, they said "destruct, need to get more licenses, cancel the contest, go to exile the Pope," things. These do not surprise us, especially in our own political school. We know that private companies will always look at their partial private interest. Do you know what the matter is for the state? This partial private interest does not undermine the collective, social interest. And there we were steadfast, and that's what bothered him. And that's why now you're up in the middle of a storm this ridiculous, impatient and perforated story. Because that's how you learned! That's how you learned how to do it. It was time that all the temporary successful tenderers and participants held meetings with each other and discussions on their possibilities for cooperation. And it makes perfect sense, because there were two companies that had a licence and had no channels and two companies that had a channel and which did not have a licence. This is the natural momentum of the market rules that you should teach them and not teach them so from our own teachings. Isn't that right? And they all met. Marinakis, Kalogeritsas, Kontomenias, Vryonis held meetings and discussed possible partnerships. And we encouraged any solution that could save jobs. What were we supposed to do? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Say 'cut your neck' and stay on the road, as you accused us of staying on the road and it turned out that we doubled employment? Would that satisfy you? I come on 18 October and on'mononews.gr'. Who dictated this meeting? "Marinakis, Neighbourhood meets and discusses the possibility of co-operation." On December 2, 2016, the site "enimerosi24.gr" wrote: "Marinakis, Kontomenias, Vryonis, meet and discuss possible cooperation." Who dictated her? On August 31, he wrote: "Kalogritsa - Vryoni" meeting, before the competition. On 9 October we read in "Pontiki.gr" the following: "Assembly - Kalogrica". But, and later, just before the National Broadcasting Council, in July 2017, we read that Mr. Kontomenis, Mr. Vardinoyannis and Mr. So I also present the publications to you, to make sure that you also have access, because it seems that you do not make much use of the search engines on the Internet. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, I would like to tell you this: you are relying on the testimony of one who has been declared inferior. What for? Because this competition had too many filters. Think of the competitions you have made and tell me if we had the formal obligation to set temporary successful tenderers. Why shouldn't we have no final successful ones? If we so much wanted to give the gentleman a channel, why not go to the original solution suggested by the canals, that is, no competition, a low price, 'go, find children, about 5.6 million each','spray, wipe, finish'? Why wouldn't we do that? Adopt his allegations unequivocally and do not understand - be careful! - that this line of cruising can be shown elsewhere. Because Mr Kalogritsa is a shareholder of GPO by 60% with members of his family. And CEO of the company and at that time was Mr. Theodorikos. And Mr. Theodorikos, gentlemen of the New Democracy, is an advisor to Mr. Mitsotakis even before being elected to the leadership of the New Democracy. Do you know what I'd expect from the Chief of New Democracy? Well, let him do it through Mr. Plori if he doesn't have the face to come here himself. I would therefore expect him to submit all the agreements he has made with GPO and Mr Theodorikos personally in the Minutes of the House. All of them! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] To tell us when he started to advise him, to tell us how much he paid him, to know what Mr. Calogritsa knew. Unless his CEO hadn't informed him of the findings of his cooperation with Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Don't be surprised, it was before he was elected. In fact, then, the political and journalistic "Jerusalem" that Takis Theodorikos had also predicted 53% -47% with which Mr Mitsotakis won Mr. Meimarakis. And from there, of course, their relationship has become inseparable even from the Ministerialisation of Mr Theodorikos. Now let's go to something else, let's go to the so-called 'catchlands'. Yes, sir! Where to start? What was the competition asking for? He called for participants to present themselves with property of great value so that they could respond to the tender. And of course at the next stage he asked that this property be also liquid, so that they could pay the dose. And you're saying we should have thrown him out of the way, so the competition committee must have thrown him out. I will only refer to some of the publications concerning this piece of land in the period 2012-2014 and how you yourself advertised it as the new large investment, a big bang for tourism in Ithaca. And you expect what exactly? Public officials should have your own care to put it even in development law - be careful! - dozens of publications to say that this property is of great value to the GRANT THORNTON to assist the work of the committee and the committee to reject this application? But you don't know anything else. You do not know that the complaint you raise is not a cause that you raised from this Step from 2016 until now, but it is a cause that Mr Kalogritsa's competitors have submitted before the Council of State. And what did the Council of State say? Go ahead, the Council of State said. That's all for the pastures, then. I put these in the Minutes too, along with the publications, so that you can be informed. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First of all, I would like to thank my colleagues for the very worthwhile work they have done and for their hard work. And I'll take some time to read to you what "KATHMERINA" said: "At the end of the year, two more investments are expected to be introduced into the fast track. It is the development of a tourist resort in Ithaca by the company ‘AGYIA S.A.’. ‘DETERMINATION OF TYPOS’, 6-10-2013: ‘In Ithaca the company ‘AYIA’ aims to create a luxurious resort called ‘Ithaca Resort’. These then became pastures. "Parapolistics", our favorites, never forget us! Ten thousand-year-old conquerors in the Heptanissa. Quickly, Eritreans! The billions are coming! Hurry up! Get in line! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! Ow! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In Ithaca, he says, proposals have been put forward for the development of large holiday complexes. Unemployment is 27%. The company "AGYIA S.A." has already submitted a file for approval at the "Invest in Greece" for inclusion in the provisions on strategic investment by exploiting a proprietary area of 12 thousand acres. ‘PARAPOLITIC’. Imagine it! And "KATHMERINI" of course: "Tourist investments of total value" - keep - "EUR 5 billion throughout Greece". Approximately 1 billion is the particular investment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u182	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u183	In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, our law is the law that works, the law that protects jobs. You try again and again to rinse out any device that protects the public interest and the workers. It is obvious that the public interest is something that you do not understand, when in front of you the purpose of profit is and because political time is long, far beyond the "short", in which "shortly" you will be called to account for what you are doing right now, you must be very careful and what categories you are launching and where you are putting your signature. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Beware, too, of what political purposes you are serving. You are accusing us of a story that the public has benefited 200 million from advertising tax and frequency charges and, if you do not continue to exempt channels from their obligation to pay for television licences, another 250 million of television licences, about half a billion. The state didn't give money, it's collecting. Let me tell you where he lost money and where he loses? In Mrs Nikolau's direct assignments, which took masks for prisons from a company that trades amortisers. At Piraeus Bank, where you have a large robbery against the public. At the Desert sale. Remember the Desert, said by Mitsotakis "Sometimes it will burn, it can't" and after three days it caught fire in Corfu. Where you give "bad and water" to "Halkidiki" in Halkidiki. In the dark convention with ‘PALANTIR’. In unconditional - take very good care of this issue - deliver the data and metadata to the company 'CISCO'. If you think what's coming after you is the two million direct assignment, you're making a big mistake. The metadata and data are the intangible gold of the time and you decided in secret to deliver them to a private company. And, of course, you're talking about control of the media. There I think we should ask Mr Petsa, but we should also learn, because the tens of millions which you have channelled them to see Mr Petsa get tired, it is clear that they will not save you from criticism, nor from mocking. And, of course, let us remember Mr. Livano, when we talk about media control, which swallowed his tongue, when we asked him to explain what was this ramp that they hung on the ERT communiqué board and said: "Do not show the bite on the balcony of Stefanade and Mitsotakis next to Lignade". You're criticizing us for control of the media! And here you will allow me to tell you that I am personally extremely affected, because if you want to talk about corruption, we can bring Mr Christoforikos here to tell us what happened on the three hundred six times that he had contacts with members of the Mitsotakis family. That's what we do if you want to talk about corruption. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] For the hundred contacts of Mr. Mitsotakis, for the forty of Mrs. Doras Bakoyannis. I don't have to tell all the family members. Looks like the fabric is family. And by closing, do you know who else we should ask? I heard Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Alafuzo met recently. We should ask both of them if they have accounts from their fathers, because my father had shown a leaf of "ELEVERROTYPTIA" with the interview by Aristides Alfouzos, who said "Mitsotakis was a very good friend of mine, but then we had a fight because he kept asking me for money." Mr. Alafuzos at that interview had taken out Citibank's check and presented it. So when you're talking about this party, you have to be careful. You have your nest dirty and the time you will pay a heavy price for your slander is approaching. Thank you, Madam President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u184	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Scandalides, Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u185	Ladies and gentlemen, it is really quite awkward and difficult to get a colleague here in Step to decide today whether to set up a pre-review committee. Mr Papapas, today's debate is not intended to judge your policy in general. There are other procedures and there are other institutional functions in which policies are judged. It does not judge your policy compared to other periods. The House doesn't even haunt an indictment. There's a path of truth and bravery. Once one believes in his absolute innocence and has the elements he invokes, let the passageway open, so that there is no shadow in his course. You had that possibility. Many members of our party have done so on several occasions in very serious cases and with the belief that they can finally be acquitted and the shadow removed from them. There is an important, stable and stable position for years from us, that anything that has been coming out of publicity, which affects the honor and reputation of the political world, must take the way of justice, so as to protect the political world and the parties. I repeat: the House does not indict indictment. We are not making a decision here to condemn any Member and much more than that. Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate has two objectives and one complement. The first is to facilitate the unobstructed investigation and conclusion of a case that, since its birth and the process of processing it, created obvious questions and suspicions. I want you to look at all the facts of that time. The second is to take advantage of the opportunity to highlight the need to maintain constitutional order in the critical information area, which is crucial for our own democracy and our path from now on. The third is to put on the table once again - for once again, I would say - the need for its own changes in the way in which power is exercised, without dependencies, without trade, with light, transparency and accountability, with more and deeper democracy. For the case itself, our position is obvious and has been repeatedly formulated with openness and without prejudice to a number of issues. We are the party that shielded democracy with all the institutions of transparency and our position is simple: All in light, any suspicion in justice, respect for its decisions, the right to judgment, but also the right to defence for any person involved - with or without introductory - much more when in this case, in the tender for television licences, there was the vague question about daily revelations at the time and intoxications that saw the light of the publicity 'is there a prosecutor in this place?' We were wondering when the partner in the government in public stipulates that this businessman is moving black money, is there a prosecutor in this place? When the pastures are baptized resorts with provocatively overpriced value, is there a prosecutor in this place? When the Competition Committee had to request additional documentation to recognised banks, is there a prosecutor in this place? When the Attica Bank granted loans with overstatement of the credit line, is there a prosecutor in this place? Now questions arise. The file came to the House. The reports about Nikos Pappa are made by the businessman and are not confirmed by his opponent. Evidence shows copies of e-mails requiring a true and thorough investigation. To follow the route of 3 million, we read readings and readings leading to dark corridors and streets. And the obscene? A law which was judged to be unconstitutional and glimpse every effort that it at the time was trying to raise Parliament's level. In what climate, ladies and gentlemen, is the meeting being held today? In a climate that is once again characterised by tension and which, unfortunately, I would say and I will always say - we have done so differently. We did it differently, you did it differently." The sense of collective responsibility and the individual deed that brings an idea of the conceiving of collectively subordinates of parties' factions is the notorious moral advantage that has been evaporated through the degeneration of the process of selection of canalarchs. And it's what we lived at the time and we're ashamed of this process that our eyes saw and they listened to our ears. And it is precisely that the Greek political life, the political system, has gone all these years mainly to try to highlight the concept of collective responsibility, which is not a democratic concept, for individual actions that must be dealt with, controlled and attributed to those responsibilities. For many years now, we have been living through a daily effort, control of the media, information directed, transformation of media into a propaganda of power. Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, who are missing from this Chamber now, with your populism and your turbulence and the invasion you have attempted in the state and power, you have basically believed that you can use and quantify mechanisms known as origin and long-standing creation and unleashed every expectation of the prevalence of progressive ideas by exercising power. Unfortunately, you were not taught the history of the goods in 1989. You tried to copy it, but you did not protect yourself with the 'NOVARTIS' case. And it is this sense of the occupation of power just what quickly demolished its progressive character. But there is also, on the other hand, the current Governing Party, where in no way our position for this process and this route does not acquit it from its own specific policy, beyond the mechanisms that historically, traditionally established, even the current experienced and refined way of imposing a depressing regime on information and information, hurts democracy, hurts the true possibility of informing Greek citizens. It does not let them become conscious of things. The way in which information and information is being presented today by the systemic media is a depressing way, a way of guiding, a way that does not allow the Greek citizen to see. And when antisystemic means are found, the internet, to reveal facts, they show very clearly that this policy of organisational financial control of the media is also a short-sighted, narrow-hearted policy and leads nowhere. Because sooner or later, it is revealed in the era of communication and technology that events are not stopping anywhere, they are not hiding behind a offline, they are not hiding behind a compromise of economic and political interests, they are not hiding behind a coalition of power, they are not hiding behind mechanisms of State and administrative, which are related to justice or the media. They cannot hide behind the imperial power structures that are today revealed throughout all their majesty. Instead of coming here and talking about the problem of democracy together, instead of coming here and talking about the shielding of the political system, we don't care about them, we make committees, each party draws up its findings, its own truth, as if the truth is shared in pieces, because the fear of literally destroying nature, the identity of each party and every place in the name of collective responsibility is hidden. Instead of looking for the real guilty, instead of shielding democracy, what do we do? I have participated, ladies and gentlemen, in dozens of institutional changes that have taken place - a step towards transparency and dealing with the political money and the balance of economic and political interests, and I discerned, as Minister, the hypocrisy that Parliament had when it voted, for example, to take EUR 1 000 to get political support, is supposed to be, the candidates and others, and they all knew that they were lying. Instead of sitting down and looking at the real incision, finding out how this symphony of interests won't happen again, everyone incriminates the other and tries to prove that he was better. So I, ladies and gentlemen, believe that our prolongation has worked very consistently in the direction of shielding democracy with the institutions of transparency and, at the same time, taking bold steps. He didn't make it everywhere. It is clear that in many things we have not dared. We are proud, however, that what happened in this place was our work and that is why we are really proud and we believe that the place needs us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Madam President. You of the New Democracy who along with PASOK manifested corruption in an Olympic sport blame those of SYRIZA for corruption. You are pleased with your courage, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. You who travelled with the worst kind of Oriental remulance in this place, you who had found them so beautiful and angelically with all the Christs until in the far Americas the FBI had smuggled Mom "SIEMENS" and suddenly we had all that orgasm so that the main Christs could move freely across Europe, you of the New Democracy and of PASOK of water in the name of every "NOVARTIS", while you watered with poison the Greek people, you loaded him with debts and of course you announced that together we were eating them, you of the New Republic with Prime Minister Mitsotakis, the line that promoted me to the late father of the Prime Minister, has dragged Parliament's honor and reputation through the rain of '89, in Special Courts for your Liberties. You forsake those amateurs, basically in sports, you professionals of the kind, you talk about corruption, and you show yourself to guardians and protectors of the spirit and morality. Well done, I really recognize your nerve, it's excellent! For you, SYRIZA colleagues and more specifically you, Mr Papa, Mr Tsipras, Mr. Drasakis, Mr. Tsakalotes, you, the leading group of SYRIZA, which, on the night of the referendum, called on the NRP and reduced the pensions of the poorest pensioners together, charged the small and mediums with 100% advance payment of taxes, Mr. Drasakis, Mr. Tsakalotos, who a few weeks later in this House room, together with them you abolished the NRP and reduced the pensions of the poorest pensioners, charged the smallest people with 100% advancement of taxes, put forward the sale of the red loans of the cosmadic to the prestige funds, gave the fourtious airports - jewellery at 'FRAPORT', you have passed all the public property at your place of extremies to the HIPATORATO, and you have been able to re-examine the Greek customs offices of the Greek customs offices that have been handed to the HIPADO. You, as well as you, are crying and laughing. We are mourning and enjoying the coup d'état between you and, of course, abstaining from the merciless behaviour of the so-called pre-review committees. We Merra25 MPs will never be prosecutors, we will never mask prosecutors. We are enough to condemn you politically and to work hard to restore parliamentaryism and to distinguish between powers. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] How much longer is that mascari? He wins a party's election and dresses up prosecutors for his MPs, setting up Special Courts for political opponents, thereby discriminating power. And then what's going on? Others win, baptize their own MP prosecutors and turn others into persecutors. How much longer is this humiliation of parliamentaryism? Which country is this serious? And don't tell me again that in the United States Senate there is a court for the president of America, because you will once again reveal your ignorance of how the constitutions of other countries operate. The Senate operates as an informal court in the United States, but with one subject, the President's reproach. It is not criminal, prosecution is the question of whether we should prosecute the president. We have this, we have a procedure of censure and a motion of censure to the government. What you are doing here with the pre-inquiry committees every three and a little humiliates parliamentaryism. So we are dealing with your pre-research committees with the contempt that they deserve. Before the elections in our election programme, Mera25's position on these issues was clear. We call for the establishment of a Corps of Political and Entrepreneurial Crimes, which is independent, technologically advanced, to be able to do a real job of investigation, not for us Members, so that we are persecuted for the involvement of big businessmen and politicians. You want committees of inquiry in this House to do, like the one that opened the Cyprus file. Badly, but he opened it. Not to put them in prison, but to record historical data, statistics, economic data, separate the facts and facts from our interpretations and opinions about them. We have recently proposed a committee of inquiry for all the Memorandums of 2010, 2012, 2015, August 2018, which, of course, SYRIZA has certainly called it a memorandum, what will come to record. How was the debt at all times, how, who, and how did they raise it at any time, where did the money go, who closed the banks? Of course, you do not answer that either you of the New Democracy or you of the SYRIZA are whistling indifferently. Fully and goodly coexistence, confirming this coexistence. All I will say about this case at issue in this case, because this case is essentially about sharing control of the media, through 'weigher', on the one hand, and of the oligarchs on the other: ladies and gentlemen, after the transfer of three things have marked the place. The first was the establishment of the democracy, of this democracy that we have, the second was the deepening of the oligarchy and the third was the creation of the oligarchy of mass deception, so that the oligarchy can be protected from democracy. I'll say it one more time. Three things marked the period from Migration. The establishment of democracy, the deepening and strengthening of the oligarchy and the creation of oligarchy of mass deception to protect the oligarchs from democracy. We have come to this point, ladies and gentlemen, that today there is no dictator on the planet that is not jealous of our fewer people. All dictators of the dunia would like to have media, as friendly as Greek. Even without having to put in prison or prosecute journalists. It's a miracle. How did this dictatorship of mass propaganda and deception come about? From the first moment, from the dirty '89, private channels were fed indirectly or directly by the state or banks. Since the major bankruptcy of 2010, after which New Democracy and PASOK, PASOK and New Democracy, you have inaugurated Greece's "Christmas colony", banks and state are systematically fed by the European Central Bank and by Brussels. This holds the banks and the state, supposedly, non-bankrupt, ECB and Brussels. As was perfectly normal, the media are embedded, essentially designed, structured, to drown every voice that challenges its parties "yes" in everything" in the European Central Bank and Brussels. And we're coming now or I'm coming to the post-conscious period of the Tsipra period. Having said "yes" to everything, SYRIZA's leading team considered that it deserved a share of the pie and of course the favor of the mass deception. He says, after we said "yes" to everything, that we should not take a few-masters, a channel, a newspaper, something? And that is where it is rooted between you two, a contour that leaves us indifferent, as it leaves the citizens indifferent. Take your eyes off, how much we care. But close to your hands by the institutions of democracy. How much longer will you hurt Parliament with performances like today, wearing the prosecutor's suit and the suit of persecuted ones? How much longer will you take the House away from the people's real problems with chicken fights that cause the disgusting of citizens? The reason why, ladies and gentlemen, your leaderships are investing - because your leaderships are the ones that invest in the courgettes - is obvious. The leaderships of the two major parties act as a duplex debt, gambling and lies, partnerships. The closer the policies of the leaderships of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, the closer the more the coup d'état between them, the greater your need, the leaderships of the New Democracy and SYRIZA, to unite each other, as it has done today, so that you can assemble your MPs and, of course, your voters, even if this requires allegedly interrogative, interrogative committees, which, of course, offer you the opportunity to dress up, masturbate, prosecutors, persecuted and persecuted. I look at you Members and Members of the New Democracy and I wonder, even for reasons of civil courtesy, whether you are not concerned about this today? I am looking at you SYRIZA again, how much more will you leave the leader group Tsipras, Papa, Drasakis, Euklidis Tsakalotou to force you to submit to the oligarchic interests in the name of the left, even extorting your sympathy to them because they are supposedly persecuted by the right? How much longer will it go to a leadership that entangles you in co-operation with the New Democracy, while the two leaderships are fighting to cover up the joint covert facility they offer together to the very few to plunder the many? On the subject of mass deception, which is of paramount importance in any democracy, we in Mera25 have proposals and we reserve to return with even more concrete proposals. It's not the moment, but I'll just say a word. Our top proposal is the abolition of the National Broadcasting Council, the replacement, the establishment of if you want a National Counselling Council of Curators and Elected Citizens, which will finally set a serious regulatory framework to make the deception of information, the Neighbourhood in SMEs to change and escape from the logic of the auction, the majority of the few, who takes the private channel. We do not want channels, we do not want newspapers either under state control or under the control of oligarchy. But today is not the time for them, because today we have this operetta of setting up a committee of inquiry, and we in Mera25 feel a sacred obligation to express in this Chamber the disgust of citizens and their need to stop disorientation from their problems by the leaderships of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. And how are we going to express this? In denouncing the procedure and declaring our abstention from this evening's vote and, of course, from the shameful committee which is currently being set up. Ladies and gentlemen, we, Mera25, will not become partners in your co-operation. Colleagues of SYRIZA, we have one goal, to find ourselves an obstacle to the parasitic oligarchy that today is expressed by Mr Mitsotakis and his Government. We don't have a double-front climb. If we are making a two-front run, it is because your leadership has made a joint forehead with New Democracy, a common forehead in Greece, of course, always to save the country, of course always under the supervision of the lenders and conquerors, which we do not forget, of course - of course, they want our best, do they? Don't forget. If we do a two-front job, it is because our people are faced with a common front of the leaderships, which unanimously says "yes" to all that keep our people back, disappoint him, alienate them from politics and manipulate him. In abstaining from the vote and, of course, from the work of the shameful committee that is currently being set up, we are expressing the irreversible question, which is more or less on the lips of many: How much more?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mr Cappatos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Madam President. Before I enter the subject of today's debate, I should like to stand a little on the provocative, insulting for this House, and our place, and our democracy, by suggesting Mr Polakis a little earlier. Mr. Paulakis spoke about the Memorandum Policy of the Governments of New Democracy as if he had never been Minister of the Memorandum of the Greek Government since 2010. It ended, however, by calling the New Democracy an abstraction of the diet, the parade of Constantine Karamanlis, which sealed the fall of democracy and the advent of democracy at the place, which brought our homeland to the core of the European family, against the climate of the time, which kept the smooth transition of power democratically and freely. Mr. Paulakis was not ashamed to call the resignation of Karamanlis, Ralli, Averof, Mitsotakis, Evert, Kostas Karamanlis, Antonis Samaras, Vangellis Meimarakis, and today Mr.Mitsotakis as dodosing. We could, of course, return the charge to those who, according to them, knew but protected witnesses "NOVARTIS" or vote against Stavros Dimas on the right. But we won't, because we're not the same. The great liberal party is not afraid of lionism and threats. At the same time he remembers, he remembers the great moments of the homeland and the fact that he is on the right side of history. And finally, she regrets that in a critical period for the country and the world there is a left to her who in nothing reminds of the emblematic figures of the space, such as that of the Leonidas Kyrikos. I now enter my main suggestion with a point which, however self-evident it may be, needs to be recorded. And she is no other than the fact that tabling the proposal to set up a Special Interrogative Committee is not a pleasant development for us. It is not pleasant because, firstly, it coincides with a period when economic and social activity is tested by the consequences that pandemic has brought about. It is not pleasant because it places at the heart an organised attack on the democratic principle and the principle of pluralism which we have built and conquered during the period of post-population until today. And finally, because such a debate self-evidently restores to our memory the most unpleasant, sad, but also critical moments of the period 2015-2019. At the same time, however, exploring the truth is more than necessary in order to understand the overall picture of the vibrations that SYRIZA - ANEL government has caused in our place and political system, the underground routes between government and fourth power. How irony, after all, to incur us for a favorable relationship with the media those who designed, set up and attempted to implement the definition of embrace of rulers and means! However, let us see from the very beginning what we are asking for and what criminal responsibilities arise. In particular, does Nikos Pappas, the Minister responsible for the competition for television licences ask Mr Christos Kalogrica to participate in the competition as a man of confidence and headed by the SYRIZA party? In turn, did Mr. Kalogritsa or not violate the conditions of the competition by not making the sum of EUR 3 million available for participation in Mr. Poppa's knowledge? And the most outrageous of all: Has the amount paid back, yes or no, to Mr. Kalogritsa after the cancellation of the tender? And if it were returned, is it true or not that this amount was directed by a government mandate to publish Mr Vaxebane's newspaper? These are questions asking for answers from the first moment of the SYRIZA policy fiasco on television licences. Ladies and gentlemen, when we tabled as a parliamentary group the proposal for a committee of inquiry for the former Minister of Justice, Mr Papagelopoulos, we realised that horrifying revelations would see the light of publicity a few months later. We saw the underground bucket of SYRIZA's dombling and interventions - ANEL in justice unfolding as the committee progressed in its work and the clutch tightening for the persons involved. The proposal, which we are discussing today, can only remind us of the days, works, responsibilities of SYRIZA governance, for which there are signs of unholy transactions that we also want to investigate. We say, therefore, that there are sufficient indications concerning the Minister, Mr Pappas. Arrival and continuing bribery and breach of office by drawing and continuing. We call for these indications to be investigated, proposing the setting-up of a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination. To say it in your own dialect, which you have courageously used, in the methods of the 'NOVARTIS' case. This is not the case, and we are not in the mood for this. What we are asking is for a case to be cleared up with good evidence of criminal responsibility. From the herds of Ithaca, which the company "AYIA" did not belong to Mr. Kalogrica - this was not explained by Mr. Papapas previously, it did not tell us what the relationship between "AYIA" and Mr. Kalogritsa -, and our beautiful place - Ithaca, which was unjustly placed in the castle of the case, until the issue of a newspaper with sums that are literally not there, we see history repeated as a pragmy and finally a tragedy of SYRIZA's allegedly pure intentions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u190	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u191	Ladies and gentlemen, the media issue, the subject of television licences, is one of the most favourite issues of the confrontation between New Democracy and SYRIZA. After all, the same was the case in the previous times of bipartisanism. A controversy, however, which when it is not, as often is hollow, shallow and hypocritical, then in any case it is completely alien to the interests and anguish of people. Of course, the subject, visibility and publicity have them secured and therefore belongs to the classic repertoire of disorientation and of changing agendas in public dialogue. In short, it is exploited as a very convenient diversion from the hard reality our people live. As in 2016, the issue of television licences was exploited by the SYRIZA government at that time, as well as now, a few years later, the New Democracy desperately regains it in order to change the heavy pandemic agenda, in order to hide its own openly-minded responsibilities in its management, responsibilities revealed daily and often dramatically in the hours of agony that live in the struggle of life and death which give dozens of hospitals permeated for days outside intensive treatment, while the government has stubbornly refused the real qualification of all private health stores. And don't tell us that these are so Soviet and they are not, because these are not, the requisition provided for in Article 18(3) of the Constitution that you revised last year, when all of you refused again, from New Democracy to SYRIZA, and the repeal of Article 86, so that the ministers finally ceased to enjoy special criminal treatment. That was the proposal of the JRC, which you rejected. Reiterating the question of television licences, the New Democracy asks, today, for a preliminary examination of Nikos Pappas, the first thing that one is thinking about, and rightly so, is that there is another pre-examination in the great cat of such committees of this House, which is intended to be placed in the service of a lousy two-party game and is used as a means of disorientation. Does the question arise, however: Good, for the toys that were then played in the competition for television licenses by SYRIZA, are there no responsibilities at all? Of course they do. First of all, the JRC considers that SYRIZA's political responsibilities in this matter are given priority. Are there any other responsibilities in this case, however? No one can rule that out. That is why, at this stage and in order to investigate all aspects of the case, this investigation of any other responsibilities could be the subject of a committee of inquiry, but not a preliminary investigation. For all these reasons, therefore, we are placed with the'represent' to the proposal of the Members of the New Democracy. However, since we are talking about responsibilities, let us look at the political responsibilities in this matter, political responsibilities which are not only attributed to SYRIZA but also to the New Democracy. What do you think of the government? As you propose pre-examination committees, do you think you will be able to blur the waters of your own political responsibilities for your diverse involvement with the business interests of those few who control the media against informing the people? Do you, however, think that this New Democracy proposal is enough to acquit you from your political responsibilities for your own conflict with relative business interests? Really - and to have a good question - all of you - New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement - do you accept that information, channels, frequencies will be of the great business interests? And you accept it and you support it. Only, you know, that's where the root lies, that's exactly where the truce and corruption come from. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And then someone will say, why do your hostage fights? Just to disorientate the people? Of course not! Is it about democracy and transparency? Excuse me, is it not now that the working jungle prevails in the media? This is, of course, another matter. It is about redistributing the canal pie, it is a ruthless one, it is about a hard war of business interests for who, in the end, will control the information and not just. These conflicting business interests are expressed throughout this political and business disgrace in the information sector. Yes, but the essence is always unavoidable, since none of you, as we have said, disputes that the information of the people will continue to be in the same hands as those of those who support their system, policy and rot. And if that doesn't change, there can be no real information about the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, too. I will now invite the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Kouvella. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA colleagues with their general references during the debate earlier reminded us of their works and days during their own governance, all that Greek society could not tolerate any more. That's why in the 2019 elections, gentlemen of SYRIZA, he sent you to the headquarters of Officerial Vice-Population for the time, because you know very well that there is even more. Finally, it turns out, there was not only the smoke that we saw, but also the fire that burned for four and a half years in the country. We don't. They call it important witnesses in FOLLI FOLLIE's case, it's called judges in the Papagelopoulos case, on which the House decided last summer, your own man, Mr. Kalogris, says so, in the case we are discussing today. I mean, politics, judiciary, business. With a word, in the period of SYRIZA rule you have achieved a spread of corruption, depreciation of institutions, collapse of values. You even tried to control the joints of power, thankfully, but, without success, you who moved our finger as something fresh in political life. We were talking about the new one, and, finally, you brought something very old, older, and the old ones you were teaching morals, but you didn't keep the law and, of course, you were throwing mud into the fan, because - as you know - something will remain. However, ladies and gentlemen, in SYRIZA, we in the New Democracy do not want the public life of the country to be criminalised. We have a different perception. We also do not want to prosecute our political opponents, even unfairly. On the contrary, we believe in parliamentary procedures, democratic institutions and their strengthening. And we have proved that in practice. We believe, ultimately, in the democracy of truth, while you are attempting to cover up your own sins. That's why we recommend to you, everything in the light. In the case we are discussing, the colossal argument that the New Democracy Parliamentary majority, which proposes the setting-up of a Committee of Inquiry, has been heard earlier in order to make a good colleague, the former Minister, Mr Pappas, sad. It is uncooperative that the Member and the SYRIZA colleagues who have expressed such an argument seem to mean. So, what do you propose, colleagues? I'm sorry. I'm The other colossal argument that was heard today was that in the debate we were talking about a preliminary inquiry committee on the medical scandal of "NOVARTIS", where, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you decided without evidence to send to the prosecutor ten political opponents, including two former prime ministers. However, we do not make double readings, nor do we believe in democracy a card. The proposal by the Members of the New Democracy is not based on ports and fantasy assumptions, but on the case-file formed following complaints made by your own human, your businessman, Mr. Kalogritsa, and not by any competitor, nor your political opponents. It follows that in the case of the competition of television licences, the SYRIZA government was buying and SYRIZA was drinking. It was not, in the end, a matter of your concern to collect Greek public money for television frequencies - if that were to happen, it would be a good thing - but to check at least one television station - that was crucial - in four. This mission has clearly been carried out by Mr. Pappas. First, he was appointed a competent Minister, with the anti-constitutional power being removed from the Television Council, as it was mentioned in the S.H.E. Mr Pappa has already been considered by the Council of State. Secondly, he put your friend businessman Mr. Kalogrisa into the game as a front and then held him in the game with nails and teeth. Thirdly, it called for business people to cooperate with him and so on. Near and Marinakis, as they themselves denounce, but no one can ever deny them. Fourthly, he asked the famous Lebanese company to fund Mr. Kalogrisa with a strange route without leaving any traces. Because everyone understands that there was a future. They had to be careful in this game. Mr Kalogritsa, it turns out, did not have the money, nor did you have the money. This was denounced by the New Democracy as Opposition at the time, among others. Fifthly, after the shipwreck of the competition, Mr. Pappas made sure that the money was paid back to the businessman Kalogrisa and that the pro-government paper 'DOCUMENTO' be set up at that time. It has been argued that Mr Pappas' behaviour and SYRIZA's government policy need only be judged politically and that this is sufficient, that if the complaints of Kalogrisa are investigated and criminally prosecuted, this will be an unfair targeting and unacceptable political persecution of the former Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, we are the party moving in institutional, democratic and responsible, far from the toxic practice of political persecution and the targeting of political opponents supported by the SYRIZA Government. We are also seeking not only to detect a dark assumption but also to establish an institutional shield of justice. On top of this case-file sent to the House by the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay does not extend a slight scourge. It's a heavy cloud, black cloud, under opaque events, to which the former Minister seems to be involved. Of course, all the political world is shaded in the face of the people involved. We therefore propose that it be cleared in the case, because this is an obligation for all of us, the whole of the political world. In particular, one would say that it is of greater interest and greater interest, now directly, to have the Party of Officerial Opposition, SYRIZA, yourself, to clarify this case. And if anyone remembers that it was the period when you operated this competition, it is not Mr. Pappa's personal case, nor is there any personal confrontation between the parliamentary majority and the former Minister. Even greater political and personal interest and benefit is the former Minister, Mr. Papapas, himself, seeking to give him the opportunity to reject the evidence of the case. At other times, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, another parliamentary majority would seek not to give this opportunity, but to keep its political opponents on moral grounds and exploit this at every opportunity. On the contrary, with the proposal by the Members of the New Democracy for the establishment of a Pre-Investigative Committee, we are responding to a fundamental institutional obligation which concerns the very essence and quality of democracy. It restores a large part of the credibility of the political world and of the political system to the benefit of society itself. That is why all the wings, all the political parties, must vote in favour of the proposal to set up a Committee of Inquiry, which is precisely aimed at safeguarding the prestige of all of us in and out of this Chamber. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, too. SYRIZA Parliamentary Group President - Progressive Alliance and Chief of Police Response, Alexis Tsipras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this picture we see here on my right, the image of empty government acts, is characteristic and symbolic. It is characteristic and symbolic not only about what is happening in this process, but about what is happening right now in the country. I was absent from the Greek people's drama, and I abstained from the tragedy of the land. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, which you are barely filling a taxi in today's sitting, as I imagine that not even the interest of Members of your Parliament in your group is causing your study to go ahead with these acts of political opposition, you have put the country on the automatic pilot of an incomplete caravan for five months now and ineffective quarantine. You have left the National Health System unprotected, without any substantial aid to deal with the health crisis. You've let our hospitals fall apart. Yesterday was the worst day since the health crisis began, a year now and today we find out that we are going back to a record of cases. In intensive treatment units there is no longer a bed for either a sample, while dozens of our fellow citizens for days, for weeks waiting for a bed, a bed in intensive care units on the waiting list, hand-inspired in cabins, portable respirators and without proper care. You have left society and citizens against an unprecedented sense of insecurity, unprotected. You are now facing this crisis a year now, health, without a plan, without a minimum of seriousness, only with a communication policy. You're responsible for one of the citizens, one of the doctors. You have been unable to hire even two hundred doctors for a year and proceeded to fiasco orders from the private sector. Now you're messing with the pharmacists, who are rightly complaining about the choice of making these self test at their pharmacies. Tomorrow you will put it back with the citizens, who are transferring responsibility for the tests, while in the meantime you are not in a position to organise massively, targeted, coordinated and responsible state. But you do the same with professionals, workers, entrepreneurs. You accuse them that it is their fault that their businesses are 'jobs' and those who are ungrateful. So the Minister of Development told them and they do not understand how generously the government is financing them. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's why they'll deliver you in a few days in boxes their keys to the Maximos Mansion, the keys to business. You have let the economy sink, the citizens sink into insecurity for their lives and the anxiety about what dawns them tomorrow. And where exactly is the government? Where exactly is the government? This present image of empty government influence is also the image of the government in recent years for the average citizen. Honestly, it's a pity Mr. Mitsotakis isn't here today. He could, if he wants, sit on the collapsing benches. He's not here, not because, my lord, it's not a completely governmental choice. It is his personal task to prosecute his political opponents, and it is cowardice that the absence of today is political. He's not here because he doesn't have any arguments. He's not here because he can't raise the weight. He's not here because he can't resist the political reason. And he's not here because he's afraid of this controversy, to take responsibility, while he's supposed to be running the health crisis plan, to have as the only plan how he's going to smash, slander, target and criminalize the political life of the place, targeting his political opponents. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But if he were here, I would like to ask him a question before him, which I believe is the question that comes to the lips of every citizen at the time of evil chaos, who is following this process - a travesty in this House. The question of any person responsible, any doctor and nurse, any worker who is out of production for months, any micro-medium who locks his life, any young person who is suffocating, any person who feels and lives through his staff and family drama, the country's drama, is as follows: Seriously, Mr. Mitsotakis? With seventy dead a day, fear of tearing up society, with thousands of our fellow humans lying on the verge of desperation, all you think about is how you will set up criminal'saints' for your political opponents? Seriously, Mr. Mitsotakis? With the EHS beyond its limits, with the doctors and fighters in the first line - who were hypocritically applauding last year - to raise a voice of desperation with society demanding responsibility, wisdom, low tones in the day-to-day tragedy, you to motivate yourself to avenge and neutralize your political opponents? Seriously, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple? With the economy boasting, with quarantine entrepreneurship, the middle class in a cloak of fear for tomorrow, young people in anger climate, millions of workers in siege from insecurity and poverty, all you dream of are special courts, sticks and ultimately splitting and polarizing? Is that your contribution to the place? Rather than bend carefully and responsibly over the problems that the crisis creates and your policy multiplys, you attempt to transform the House and the justice into the "washing machines" of your policy and to the tools of slashing and prosecuting political opponents. So you understand the importance of the moments we live, the government's responsibility for licenses here for what we live every day, your role as Ministers, his role as Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So he understands him for protecting society and the most vulnerable at such critical times? In any case, a sense of reality may not be unconscious, but do they remember what they promised before they were elected to the world of work, entrepreneurship? However, I do not remember those who consider them to be dangerous to their authority promised repression, propaganda and criminal treatment to be promised. I do not think that that was what the citizens who voted for the New Democracy expected. They did not expect such incapacity to be managed, but also such cynicism. Where is progress, social normality, the political modesty brought by Mr Mitsotakis before the elections? And I must admit that I am am surprised not to have your management incompetence. I had you capable of such a management inability and even greater. I knew very well about the myth of excellent and technocrats that finally turned out to be people who are not able to share two donkeys. But the Minister of State says this morning that shops and the market open up after five months, but at noon the Minister of Health says that four thousand cases are coming. They are neither capable of co-ordinating with a call from each other, and this is done every day five months now and is tired. But it is not the issue of management incompetence, which has left me surprised. What has surprised me is the distance that separates you from reality, this chaos between your perception of reality and reality itself. Because I knew we were separated by ideas, by politics, by opinions, by origin, if you like, by the style of our lives, if you like. However, I thought that despite what separates us, at least we all understand, regardless of what a party we belong to, what the problems of society, citizens and the country are. And as it happens and must be done in a democracy, I believed and hoped that our political and ideological differences are that, while we know the same problems, we propose different solutions to these problems, we understand them! That's what I thought. What I see and sees with pain and the majority of the Greek people and those who hoped for you and voted for you are that your problem is structural. The problem first of all by Mr Mitsotakis is structural, the government as a whole is structural. Because his problem is that it shows, at least outwards, that he lives in a parallel universe, that he is totally unconscious about what is happening in the country and the people who have entrusted him with most of his fate in such a difficult situation. The problem, in a few words, is that he lives in another world, in his own world, in your own world. In this your world, perhaps the great number of fellow citizens are dying out of the NGO to be normal! How did Mrs. Papaevangelou say? It's--it says-- small number. In your world the daily crowding of public transport, buses, Metro, daily crowding all months in quarantine is normal! The brave grant of quarantine with provisions on the award, without criteria, of millions of euros of public money to the media, in order to "lean" the government's actions is normal! The scandalous direct assignments that have come today to the point that the 'primary' direct assignments, the Secretary-General of Anti-Criminal Policy, has given a mini-market tens of thousands of euros for bleach, all that we see with direct awards is normal for you! The careless walks by Mr. Mitsotakis and the champagne by pompagne, while the average citizen cannot meet his own people, get out of his house, and if he comes out, he comes face to face with an unprecedented police arbitrariness and repression, all this is normal for you! But in the real world that suffocates, that's not normal. In the world of work, in the world of creation, in the world of entrepreneurship, in the world of young people seeking a better future, I want to inform you that none of this is normal. Neither the fear nor the death that tends to become a habit anymore, nor the hospitals of agony, nor unemployment, nor the paddocks, nor the macabre 'adorden' of the quarantine, nor the vaccines that are all arriving and not enough and compared to neighbouring countries outside the European Union are much worse, because here is the great failure of Europe, the enormous failure of Europe! See what is happening right now in Great Britain: 50% of the population has been vaccinated. I am not talking about Israel. In Serbia they also offer vaccines for citizens of other countries. The horrific failure! In any case, all this is not normal for the simple world where its drama lives a year and five months now in an incomplete and ineffective quarantine. Well, neither is this attempt you are making today in these circumstances normal. The day when you vote here once again for your political opponent in a short time will be the day when one of the greatest case records will be recorded. It is not normal in the eyes of ordinary people to set up, to try to set up special and avenge courts for your political opponents in these circumstances. I'd say it shouldn't even be normal. You should have all of you as a party, but also as a family, the Mitsotakis family, which played a central role in the late 1980s, should have had a long and bitter experience of all this and should have come to its conclusion from the way it attempted to smash political opponents and how it turned back in the next few years 'bomerang'. However, trying the same failed, toxic and divisive plan and in today's circumstances, special circumstances, proves what I have been describing since the beginning of my speech, namely that you are - in short - out of place and time. As far as the inspiring and director of this project is concerned, he thus proves that, apart from possibly panic, he is deeply biased in depth, that he is inferior to the circumstances and in the end that he is a dangerous Prime Minister. Because if the response to the drama of hospitals and the hundreds of deaths is the persecution of Nikos Papapas and SYRIZA, because after decades our government has finally set order in television immunity, then yes, it is a deep divident but also dangerous Prime Minister, and even when in this time your government is giving land and water and tens of millions of euros of state money with the lists Petsa in dozens of media to "liberate". And I wonder at this time when I am forced to be here for the second time, in response to this avenger policy of the government of Mr Mitsotakis: How many pre-review committees should we be provoking, as soon as we return to governance? We won't know where to catch it and where to leave it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I assure you that! We were the government that took over the hard burden of a bankrupt country, with empty funds and a scandal of billions to burden the previous governments, and what we did was to lift the sleeves, draw a line and say "go ahead". We have not caused, as you do, the prosecution or the special court. And when the biggest scandal of the previous years came, the "NOVARTIS" scandal, global scandal, we said "directly to justice, not to special courts". It became a pre-inquiry, and indeed our decision to go back to justice and justice to rule, forced us to lead us to the same fate, to the pre-inquiry, not to refer to a court, and to all the parties involved, without making any choice as to who was more or less involved. We therefore acted on the basis of the truth, justice and not avengement, against those who charged billions to the Greek people in 2015. You come now and prove what? What do you prove in both cases, where you come and set special courts? That anyone who searches systemic scandals and who tries to apply the Constitution and the Law to that country, who puts it in the systemic strand, will be persecuted. This message goes through, this is your message, not our government, but the next governments. And this is a message not of the party, not of the family that governs, but is a status message, a message of the regime. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The regimes, however, fall, gentlemen, to know that. And the oxymoil of all is that you want to set up special courts for your political opponents not only without evidence, but also without - and you admit it - there is a question of the damage of the Greek State, without any damage to the Greek State. You know, this has to be a global originality. I do not know where else in the world to be sent on a repeated basis, as you do here in a year and a half, political opponents in pre-interviews and special courts, without the charge of harming the Greek public. Why did you refer him to Papagelopoulos? Why did you take him? Because he dared to investigate the responsibilities for the NOVARTIS scandal and the enormous damage to the public and the investigation you called it "construction", giving the message that anyone who dares to investigate systemic scandals would be persecuted. And today you want to set up a special court, not because you blame Nikos Papapas for the damage of the public, but because, with his actions and the actions of the government, the Constitution and the law were affected by private economic interests for the benefit of the public. That's the main charge. And I wonder, why is this choice on your part? If, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, this option is due to the fact that it creates a climate of toxic and splitting at a time, as I have explained earlier, to the peak of the national drama and the social crisis, if that choice is due to the fact that you have to pay back notes to the complex that supports you or part of the interlocutory that supports you - in this case, I do not want to smack it all - then what I would like to say is that I sympathize with you and that you will find it in front of you soon. But if you do, and why at the same time do you think - and I do - that you will try a distraction that will get you out of the deadlocks, then I assure you that you are deep-sleeved. So, what will your answer be in the previous table, not the 'DOCUMENTO', not the 'DOCUMENTO', not the 'DOCUMENTO' - which you are now not having any involvement with the money that has been deposited for months in the public sector, the Deposit Fund and which were given back, since the original publisher had left - not so, in any newspaper of those criticizing you - is not much - but in BLOOMBERG, ladies and gentlemen, your answer to BLOOMBERG, which was published yesterday that Greece's position on the global rating - in its assessment for the management and management of pandemic on the part of governments - has been plunged in the last month of twenty positions? What will be your answer? The special courts? What will be your answer to the middle-class agony for tomorrow? The persecution of your political opponents? Your response to the huge recession and to the bankruptcy nightmare of hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises which, unfortunately, are before the gates will be a fleeing to polarisation, division, acidification and judiciary? What will your response to the health and economic crisis that has ‘save’ the country into insecurity and fear? This artificial polarization and special courts. I do not believe - and I say this frankly - that you are absolutely serious if you believe this at this critical moment for the country. I can't believe it! I do not believe that you believe that persecution, repression, deafening propaganda, lying and ultimately judicial mischiefs can make you out of the really unfavourable and very difficult position in which you are in the face of what you have committed and, above all, of everything you have not committed a year now, for your policy that has led you to these deadlocks. And in any case, after you have attempted it, after you endeavor this splitting distraction, you must also receive your answers. I heard the speech of Nikos Papapas who was informative, totally degrading and gave the outline of the facts about what happened in those days and about what you did and do today. However, I would also like to give you some political answers that you deserve. What exactly is the scandal in this case for which you are accusing the government of SYRIZA and the Minister of State then and later the Minister of Digital Policy, Nikos Pappas? What exactly is the scandal? Did the SYRIZA government's brave attempt to put order in the broadcasting landscape that, for thirty consecutive years, all previous governments have left regulator, either by adopting laws that they never applied and postponed, or by tabling last minute amendments on 31 December each year to defer the taxes they had to collect? So against this immunity of an economic and political interlocutory system, SYRIZA came with his own powers to put order, because he promised the Greek people. Why do you know what the SYRIZA's very easy attitude would be? It would be to do what all the previous governments have done, to make amendments every 31 December so that they do not pay and not regulate the broadcasting scenery, leave it unregulated. Why did you do it? Did you do it because you forgot? No, obviously not! You have done so because you want the media to 'leash' you for your policy. That's why you did it! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you blame SYRIZA for the fact that it was a scandal that applied the law and the Constitution, while the real scandal was yours for thirty years, the fact that for decades some businessmen had public frequencies without permission and without any obligation to the public and - look out! - without any obligation to their workers, journalists and television workshops. That was the scandal, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, and not our attempt to put an end to this corruption and darkness regime. I'll remind everyone here who has a memory. I see in the Chamber and older people who will surely remember it. But I'll remind you of it for younger people too to learn, including perhaps I am. But a little I remember from that time when I was a teenager. The first, then, who "baptised" this regime as "complex", do you know who it was? Constantine Mitsotakis! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Constantine Mitsotakis, when he was in this confrontation, when Nikos Pappas mentioned earlier - what an irony of luck! - by the "SCAI" of father Alafuzou then, he was the first to name this regime as a "complex". And do you know who he was - that you will all remember - who later baptised this regime as'strengthened pimps'? Kostas Karamanlis was the Prime Minister of the New Democracy Government at the beginning of his administration! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It was, of course, very perceptive and correct, especially in relation to what has been done in the coming years. Because I have to admit that if he then talked about 'pimps', they might have been scientists and noble people in relation to what he followed. I would therefore like to make it clear what happens if you want to set up a Special Court in SYRIZA, because it has done so with this regime, not by putting them with someone specific, but because it wanted to create a legal framework which would also be positive for all the owners of the media at the end of the day. It would be favorable, ransoming and for whatever authority, if you want, because very quickly you will see, very quickly Mr Mitsotakis will see - he is not here, but he listens to me - the results of this favor that he shows today, because no one is happy as much as anyone can do when he knows he can do any damage to you whenever he wants. And do you know anything else, ladies of the government majority? If for something I feel proud, but also strong politically, it's that I don't owe anyone! We don't owe anyone! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr. Mitsotakis, know how many he has to say that he was elected Prime Minister! How many people does he have, that push together for who has the greatest responsibility? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you want to set up a Special Court in SYRIZA for wanting to put the broadcasting scenery in order, because it has made the media owners put their hands in the pocket while you come now and give them a hand! Not only do you not get them what they have to give, but you give them. You gave them 20 million, another 20 million, another 18 million, and the next morning we said 'pay'. That's the difference! And that's what we're paying today. So if that's why you want to set up special courts, go ahead! You have a majority, although not so enthusiastic in today's procedure as I see it. But you have a majority! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We will not do you a favor to apologise from above, because we have protected the public interest. You apologise! And you'll get what you're setting up. Already I hear you're looking to fill out a "nine". From the bench, you completed '11th'. We won't apologize. You'll apologize. We have confidence in justice. Well, you, Mr. Pleari, were a sender buck and the previous "twelfth", as well as the present one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u196	I was front!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u197	We trust, Mr Pluri, not in the pre-examinations of a given majority, but in the final judge, in justice. All I'm going to tell you is to be careful eventually, don't go for hair and go out ragged, that our people say. Do you understand the point you are opening and at what point do you choose to drop this toxic poison in the political life of the place? You're opening the topic of information. You are reopening the issue of economic interdependence with political power. And when? At a time when you've ended it. You're talking about rope in the hanger's house at this time. If you wish, then, we will be happy to talk about the rope and the hanged one, which is the objective and pluralist information of the Greek people. He's the hanger. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At a time when - look at the quality elements of the polls - in the question of the reliability of the media of systemic, classic and not the Internet, of social media, unreliability has caught red: more than 75% of the citizens say that the systemic media are unreliable, are not pluralistic and are discriminatory in favour of the government. In short, the world is aware of all this lisverish that is taking place, the propaganda that will soon start turning you boomerang. So if that is what you want with this preliminary inquiry, we can open this debate. They're happy for us. All we're going to tell you is that we, our government, not that we didn't make mistakes, but we dared to collide with this toxic and drugged field. And we're paying for it, and we're paying for it, but a mess! We may not have won the war, but giving this battle is something that we consider to be a celebrity for us. It's our honor and our pride! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We are proud to have fought this battle, the battle of legality for the public interest, the interests of the Greek people, the interests of democracy. We are proud that, for the first time, constitutional legitimacy has been restored after thirty-five years of lawlessness, immunity and piracy, which has been wasted for decades by the Greek public incalculable amount of revenue. We are proud that we have introduced an operating regime that has ensured and continues to guarantee the rights of workers in the media. That's why we're proud. Not that we didn't make mistakes. But that is why we are proud, despite the costs, the great cost, the personal and political. Set, then, trials of feasibility for your political opponents on the grounds that they dared to oblige the complication to comply with the Constitution and the laws. Set them up. Choose the path of criminalizing political life and division. Just know one thing: This road is slippery and dangerous and especially the one who chooses it. Historical experience teaches us that every time something like this was attempted not only was democracy injured and the country and the political system damaged, it was mainly damaged by the fact that it was inspired by it. We will not follow you in this division. Greece in these critical times needs a government that has a plan to deal with the crisis. It needs a government that can unite the Greeks at this difficult time. There is no need for a government with only a communication plan and a plan to eliminate its political opponents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u198	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Marcopoulou, did you say something?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u200	Don't interrupt, Mr. Marcopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u201	Do you disagree with the need to have a government that unites rather than a government that divides? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Do you disagree with the need to have a government with a plan to deal with the crisis and not a plan to eliminate its political opponents? Do you disagree with the need for there to be a minimum understanding of the political forces in this unprecedented health crisis, with the fact that, with seventy dead and four thousand cases every day, you come here to test your political opponents, because they had the courage to apply the law, the Constitution and to promote the public interest in private interests? If you disagree with all this, the Greek people will judge you. [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] You were also a journalist, Mr. Marcopoulou. And there were many journalists who in the years of the SYRIZA government strongly criticised the media, often slandering, in exchange for taking a stand on the New Democracy lists. So let us have an elementary objectivity in your judgment. Ladies and gentlemen, I was saying that this is a slippery path. I would like to conclude, however, by making a statement, which I have made in a previous speech to the House, on the fact that this attitude of the government and, in particular, the Prime Minister in recent years, has been reappearing an air of state-of-the-art mentality. The use of lies, propaganda, manipulation of information, authoritarianism, police violence, criminal derailment of politics is the most clearest evidence of a common conviction. And I said that, you know, the regimes are hitting and they don't usually throw away opposition parties, but democracy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Our country and our people have deep democratic roots, keep this in mind. Combining your inability and failure to manage the crisis, with arrogance, authoritarianism and anti-democratic practice creates an explosive mixture in Greek society. The sooner you understand it, the better. And as many trials as you can put it in the conflict that supports you, as many diversions as you set up, you will soon not be able to restrain this anger, because the more vague those who have already been devalued in the consciousness of the citizens will strengthen the anger and indignation of the citizens and so much you will not be able to. You already can't. And the sooner you realize that, the better for the place. For these hours the place needs a progressive, democratic government, with a plan to deal with the problems of the country and not to eliminate its political opponents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u202	The reason, now, is the parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, Mr Athanasios Ploris, and then the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, and we will be closing down with the MP of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Xanthopopoulou. Mr. Pleari, wait a minute for you to leave so you can be heard. Please, all colleagues who are going to leave. Mr. Florie, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u203	Mr. SYRIZA, I've never been a Seder Buck. Unfortunately, he had me come to my life to be left somewhere, and I was left back, because we had this problem, too, Mr. Xanthopoulou. I waited, coming here, Mr. Tsipras, to start and take a stand on this, which Mr. Paulakis said. Mr Tsipras, who spoke today about unity, a few hours ago, obviously, with his tolerance, if not with his suggestion, described this fact as a 'dollar generation' and a 'black marketmaker'. That's why we didn't find a minute of the fifty minutes Mr. Tsipras spoke about something. On the contrary, he presented two worlds before we arrived in the case we are considering today. Let's see who these two worlds are, though, actually. Because it is one world that has done this party that has tried throughout its history to unite the Greeks. And now, at this critical moment with Kyriakos Mitsotakis, thirteen months in pandemic we try and fight to have the best possible care for the Greeks. The National Health System has tripled the IF beds, there is full public co-operation with the private sector and at the moment all Greek citizens, even now, unlike other states, which had much more powerful National Health Systems, have their proper care. This party throughout the crisis has tried to support each Greek and every Greek woman with the financial measures of 34 billion euros so far. So this is our world and it's the world of unity, and here's your world, it's the world of "take the risk". And the bill's coming. Because, Mr Tsipras, you will have been informed that, at the end of the day, the virus was stuck by the marches. It's your world, which you want to spit on your political opponents. And it's your world that the world of your survival, because you in normal conditions never succeeded as a party to do something. You have always sought dissent in the Greeks and always sought abnormal situations. So you came from 3% to become government. In normality you could never be trusted and should have had a complete division of Greeks. Mr. Tsipras, as a government you were tragic. As an Opposition, you're a comedian. And unfortunately, today, with your word, you have suffered the greatest political challenge that could exist. You, Mr Tsipras, have come here to say that you are not persecuting political opponents and we are persecuting political opponents. So let's now see who works according to the Constitution and who works according to his political ideology, smash political opponents. Ladies and gentlemen, two procedural documents came in the Greek Parliament a month ago. One was the case-file of FOLLI FOLLIE, and the other was Mr Pappa's case-file. Four leading SYRIZA officials are involved in the litigation ‘FOLLI FOLLIE’. He was Mr. Flambury here, who was applauding. And what information is there on the FOLLI FOLLIE case, ladies and gentlemen? There is an e-mail from these four people that they are interested in the company, and indeed Mr Balaura describes it as 'forward', there are acts and omissions of the Securities and Exchange Committee, and there is something that we will see tomorrow in the Committee on Parliamentary Ethics on Mr Arachovitis, a whole thought of the interrogator handling the case. Mr Flamouraris and Mr Arachovitis, who were applauding Mr Tsipras today, must feel relieved that the government is the New Democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because we, ladies and gentlemen, have studied them and said that, with an e-mail, we will not make a preliminary committee, and Mr Flamouraris will be here. You, gentlemen of SYRIZA, with what evidence did you make a preliminary committee? With a testament of a hood witness that Samaras took in a running suitcase in Maximus money? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] With three sets of protected witnesses that Pikratus took 200,000 euros? And Mr. Haritsis, Mr. Flamouraris, Mr. Arahovitis and Mr. Balaourras then with this information I'm telling you, with unique, imaginative statements, they came to the call here and voted for ten political faces. Here too, this party comes and says that not by e-mail - it even mentions an e-mail amount - we do not think it is capable of saying that this on its own is an element to go to a preliminary committee. Because we want to stand up to you with political arguments. You've never been rival to the level you think. Because we know that our ideology has succeeded everywhere and we can conquer you ideologically. You are the ones who want to spit on your political opponents. So since we have examined FOLLI FOLLIE and saw that there is no evidence at least at this stage, we have taken a decision and said that we are not making a preliminary decision at the time and that it is actually the Vice-President of the Government, Mr Flavouraris, who was closer to everyone. Because we will not make a preliminary committee with an e-mail. But Mr. Kaloggirica's case has come. And since we are talking about unreliable and unreliable witnesses, the only reliable witnesses here cannot be the protected witnesses of NOVARTIS. There's no other trustworthy! Everyone else was unreliable. For Mr. Kalogritsa, of course, I was expecting you to give me an argument that would make me very difficult. Indeed, a man who applauded Alexis Tsipras when he talked about the media cannot be trustworthy. That would be an argument. Because Mr. Kalogeris applauded you, he was your man. You know him. But would it be enough for us only to do what Mr Kalogris said to be able to say to a Preliminary Committee? I have listened carefully to the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman who has tried to say what legal arguments are being put forward. From us alone, legal arguments have been put forward. From Mr Janakopoulos here and from all the Members of SYRIZA who have passed, I have not heard a legal argument regarding the evidence. So let's go specifically and see what your Mr. Kaloggrits says and what Mr. Kaloggrits is doing to them. Mr Pappas here came here - and with all due respect to the man who is controlled and must respect him and is free to say what he wants - and acted like he is still a Minister of State and defended his bill. This forensic for the Pappa law didn't come. This case-file came because under the terms of the Pappa Law the Pope is controlled because he has circumvented what this law laid down in order to favour individuals. So Mr. Kalogritsis comes and tells us that, on a mandate from Mr. Papapas, he had to enter a competitive procedure to obtain permission and ensure that Mr. Papapas, in consultation with the 'CC', was initially the 3 million euros. That's not all he says. Why did Mr Ragus say, 'they were up to 3 million?' It says that the rest of the amount would be put in 'CC'. That's what Mr. Kalogratis says. What does Mr. Kalogratis bring about in this? Introduces the following: A "CC" consultation takes place two days before the bank's warranty letters expire, and suddenly, while the issue you're saying here is "TOXOTIS" for a project in the United Arab Emirates, e-mails that have the contract and the notice for television licenses and a whole business plan along the way to how the channels will be made. And that's not all you send. There's talk about how the money will be transferred. Because the 'CCC' - and this is what it says in its written explanations - never denys that it knew that the 3 million were not involved in the work in the United Arab Emirates. Read Mr Huri's written explanations. He says, "We were approached by Mr. Kalogris for other investment projects, we told him we could not give you money, but we can make this contract." And this contract would not be of special interest if we did not see the White House and the United Arab Emirates account reported in e-mail. I have not heard from the ten SYRIZA Members who have spoken to us about 'White Porscha', telling us about 'White House', telling us about these e-mails. Because e-mails say it will be made with friends of White House and the United Arab Emirates and through an account in Cyprus the money will go. And the money went. And Mr. Kalogeritsa - there is his testimony - proves this route and says that all this was done at the command of Mr. Papa. Shouldn't we look into this? So when you read on e-mail to be called "White House", when you read on e-mail to say "Government friends for transferring money from Cyprus" should not be searched? I shall also take my dentistry, Mr President. So the money's coming. The 3 million euros are deposited late. What does Mr. Kalogerish say? Mr. Kalogris says this interesting. As soon as this party took off the field with the pastures, he asked the questions and made the message reports, you know what happened? The 'CCC' retreated and had to be found from elsewhere the 20 million. You'll tell me, "Mr. Kallagris says that. Is he standing up? Does it have to be investigated?’ At the same time, two people come in unsuspecting phase, Mr. Kontomenas and Mr. Marinakis. By the way, because you say that here was the interests of the media, Mr. Kalogeritsa and Mr. Marinakis had no channels. Mr. Marinakis has taken a channel first. He didn't have a channel at the time. And what do they come and testify? Be careful when Kalogeritsa says "CC" retreats, Marinakis says the Pope asked me to give 20 million euros to Kalogerica. It was the money they had to get in. At the end of the day, he said: 'I was asked to give 51% of the channel'. So it's not just Mr. Kalogerica's testimony. It is the route of money and is that the moment the "CC" retreats, two other testimonies come and are added to the two further witnesses Mr. Kalogritsa has put up and they say that there was no investment project in the United Arab Emirates. This is because I have also heard this argument, the 3 million if Mr Kalogratis owes it, he will pay it, because these 3 million will have to be returned to 'CCC', whatever the legal relationship. And the referee court doesn't take any place in these e-mails you're talking about. The decision of the one-sided Court of First Instance, which is essentially legal, is - comes and validates a decision. But these e-mails were never put. So these e-mails, in combination with all this course, shouldn't we consider them? And where's the interest now? These 3 million finally, while they had to be swallowed, because Mr Kalogritsas did not give the first dose, because he was found to be unconstitutional in this part, Mr Pappa's law - which told us here that the competition had not come out and canceled - was back. So Mr Kalogeritsa comes in and says: that by order of Mr Pappas again, I was asked to make the paper 'DOCUMENTO'. There is a point here about the way in which money is going. Finally, Mr. Kalogratis took the money. You said it here. He's made the cuts, and he's taken them. Did Mr. Kalogritsa make it or didn't he make it? He was the director of the publication, Mr. Vaxevanis. He was not the owner. What made it with? Didn't he use money to make a newspaper? You're also journalists in here. Tomorrow morning we go and make a newspaper. Is that a site? He didn't hire people? Didn't he pay people? Didn't he make cards? And after three months, he leaves the publishing project. And there is indeed no transfer of shares. But there's something I can't understand. While we have a newspaper with all staff, another company is being created and suddenly all staff are being fired by one company and are being taken up consciously to the other company of Mr Vaxvani as the owner now and there is also the title 'DOCUMENTO'. I say that all this may have been legal. But Mr. Kalogeritsa says that all this was done on the mandate of Mr. Papapas and money that was used there was money of EUR 3 million, which Mr. Kalogeritsa may have put first, but he took after the 3 million that he said he had stolen. Do you think it's unreasonable to see if this project was finally carried out under the mandate of Mr. Pappas? And maybe nothing will happen. And because I've read Mr. Vaxebane's announcements, he can be 100% correct with what he says. And tell the man that "no, here this company is done, it has nothing to do with the previous one, it got nothing from the active one". But it makes me an impression how a newspaper that has become and operates and all together goes to another company. So that's all we've got. And be careful, while there are six or seven offences, we're here again and we're tortured. We said, what offences are we going to consider? And the basic, the core that is being judged at the moment, who is it? That if all this is the case with the evidence that Mr Kalogritsas and all the other witnesses denounce, and Mr Marinakis and Mr Kontomenis, that they were asked for money, on the one hand we have the part - to go from the mere - of the duty violation, because at the time when a Minister "run" the contest on his own terms - I tell you before he was void by the Council of State - he was speaking at the same time to others how he would get money and he knew, because he is now proving that Mr Kalogritsa did not have the money to participate. Because if I join your position, these 3 million aren't Mr. Kalogerica's 3 million. So from the result, Mr. Kalogeritsa doesn't have the money. But Mr. Kalogritas spoke to you and the e-mails inside the White House say. And if these 3 million then came back, where they went, it's interesting and of course they're opening bills because they've been told, see how those 3 million came from and where those 3 million came from and where they ended up. I imagine that anyone who has nothing to fear has nothing to fear for, too. So these are the elements of the majority, ladies and gentlemen. Is the Preliminary Committee to be now? There was a reason to say that, because we have a pandemic, we do nothing. But the evidence is there and the limitation is before the gates. I was expecting Mr Papapas on the way in support of his law, as Mr Cappatos and Mr Markopoulos and our rapporteur Mrs Papakostas said, that she would end up in the end and say that "I want this case to be investigated, because we will go and dismantle Mr Kalogerica in the Preliminary report." But what did Mr. Tsipras say about this Step? "We have no confidence in the preliminary committee. But we have confidence in Greek justice." Mr Tsipras, we do have confidence in Greek justice, as do the ten persons you slandered. Because the preliminary committee sent them to justice. For the seven, the case was filed. So the evidence you brought was ridiculous and you insisted on that evidence. For the two, they haven't been invited to give paperwork yet. So the evidence you had was ridiculous and you insisted on that evidence. And the one who has been prosecuted for him and is not one of our offenders obviously has the presumption of innocence. Why, yes, in the face of what you have created - and I conclude, Mr President - did Mr Tsipras say one truth from this step. What did he say? He proved exactly what we were talking about with the joints of power. Why did you send Mr. Papagelopoulos away? Because he went to investigate the 'NOVARTIS' scandal, so you accept the fact that we have been calling for so long that the 'NOVARTIS' scandal was not investigated by justice, but by Mr Papagelopoulos. And with what responsibility was Minister of Justice investigating the ten political persons, as Mr. Tsipras confessed from this step? Because if justice did the investigation, we would have the results we now have with the archives on your day. But the investigation was carried out by Mr. Papagelopoulos with orders he received. The two cases therefore relate to each other. It is what you wanted to do, to control the joints of power in justice, to control the joints of power in the media, to riddle democracy. This act will accompany you for the simple reason that we, unlike you, bring to the Greek Parliament everything that has information to go further. We are proud to vote on the proposal put forward by the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u204	Until the Stepma is prepared, I will take the time to remind you once again, and because many listen to us, that tomorrow 31 March ends the deadline, after four months, for the submission of statements of assets on the condition that, as we say, 'possibly'. For all debtors not only for MPs and judges, but for those who have an obligation on Greek territory tomorrow is the last day for submission "from where you belong". Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u205	What's the truth today? What do we live, not just today, but many years? I do not want to offend the theatre, but I say 'and today' because this scene anymore of today's 'theatre' is so much played out that it actually becomes awkward, I would say it disgusting, which is not a political term, but it fits. Do you have the impression that the Greek people are an idiot, and you and you and PASOK, who pretends to be the virgin now, as if he appeared now? You have the impression that the Greek people do not understand what is happening, literally, no matter how it is expressed or not. Hasn't he understood this game that you've been playing with scandals and charges all these years? And what's the end of it? Everyone innocent, there's nothing. I listened to Mr Tsipras: 'The New Democracy is a state-of-the-art concept'. Now New Democracy was saying that SYRIZA has a state-of-the-art concept and wanted to control the media, etc. that he sent the political opponents away. Now SYRIZA says New Democracy is persecuting political opponents. What kind of humiliation is that? What do you think? It'll once break and break out what you're not both expecting. In fact, we are listening to them at a time when the Greek people are literally living with the stress of survival, that is, life, not of economics alone, but whether they are grabbing - the world is afraid and it is right - the coronary, where it will end up. Of course, Mr. Pleari, your friend Bogdan, because he runs every day in the protests, stuck a coronary. Bogdanus stuck a coronary, because every day it is in the demonstrations by the mass organizations of the JRC etc.- Oh, my God! It's the unbelievable that's said out by distances to the protests it sticks into the Metro and one on each other like a sardine doesn't fit. Inside the workplace is not stuck with the protection of the mask, while the protest with the mask, which is outside, sticks. What are we listening to? And why do you say that? Because you haven't taken any measures. You have criminal responsibilities for both public transport and, above all, for workplaces that are a health bomb. And it's said almost all the scientists even yours, because you didn't take any other steps you had to take, etc. So it's got the stress that people, if it happens to them, that he's gonna die, he's thinking about it. It will be in line to find an unexistent bed or sell what it has and doesn't, get a loan - not from the banks, of course, but from relatives - to get a turn on the two ICUs that exist in private. Well, how can anyone characterize it? Inhumanity? It's a small word. To wait for the other twenty days and to die - twenty-seven years old, forty-one - and you with two hundred beds in the private sector are not touching them and you are not attacking the doctors, why not? So that you don't hurt the millions they win and you're feeding them now and people die for free. You'll pay for it expensive, very expensive, far more than you imagine! Now I'll tell you about the vaccines. What do you have to say? With the announcements you made, you've literally humiliated yourself. And know that people don't believe you anymore that we're going to make a million vaccines in April. And we ask you: when we told you 'all the vaccines', why don't you say all of them? We are not with Russia, with us being clean, but Sputnik, anyway, has been adopted by half-humanity. You there, with the interests of the multinationals, with the European Union and let the world die. What explanation do you give? Why didn't you do that? Now you start whispering. Let's get all the vaccines that the companies have left behind. Now, this confrontation of course also suits the New Democracy, it also suits SYRIZA. Now listen. When bipartisanism is historical experience, it weakens one foot, it injects the other. That's how it's done. You also do to SYRIZA, and of course you're trying to pinch your own powers to hide what? The strategic partnership you have in this area too. Let's see, then, beyond the rest. And anyway, stop this "left" that's in conflict with the right. What Left? Have you seen Natonic Left? Have you seen the left being with American imperialism? Have you seen the Left mortgageing all Greece for nine nine years? What left is it? It's not. You just play the game so people don't go anywhere else. So what do we hear? Listen, and I address the people mainly. The New Democracy and the PASOK and SYRIZA want objective information and have not made any effort to control the channels and discuss the channels. The New Democracy and SYRIZA are not taking any action in justice. Well, are you kidding us? Are you kidding us? What are you talking about? And the last man knows that, except for some struggling people. Every government is trying to control both mass media and justice. Are we lying? Who appoints the leadership of justice? The government in question. Yes or no? The government in question. Did SYRIZA change it? Oh, no. In relation to the channels, are you working on us now? I've been one of those who've had the misfortune for many years to go out on the channels all the time. I'll tell you an incident in PASOK. Where's Kegeroglu here to tell us? When I was a candidate for a district officer, because we were training in eight seconds to make a statement, what were they doing in the end? They cut the voice! And he called the press office and said: 'Let us inform you that Mr Palphilis is not a mute.' And now it's coming out and PASOK forget the past. What are you talking about? The whole society knows. After he sees it every time, how the game changes. One party comes in, it's blue, the other one comes in, it's green. It's getting color, not rose, blue - green - pink! And that's exactly what's going on. And anyway, let's talk about the big strategic disagreements, Mr. Polakis. Do you agree that the information should be in the hands of businessmen, except for state television? Yes or no? You agree. And even someone - I don't mean to say a name - what did he say? That briefing is expensive sports for thick wallets. Isn't that right? And really, what's happened all these years? First, it was New Democracy and PASOK. And for PASOK now, who's under the cloak of Change Movement, don't forget what happened on TV. Hell was done then. And stop saying about the '89 law that we don't agree. And we've said about '89. She voted for the PASOK then, sobito. All the parties in the House then voted. Now, from there on, I don't want to make any more comments. What did PASOK do when New Democracy fell? He made new fireplaces or he joined the old ones. What did SYRIZA try to do? Same. And get back in the old days and build or help anyway. Political issue, we do not say it is criminal. Help set up a channel of his own. So where do you disagree? In fact, Mr Polakis, what was the standard you wanted to make and talk to us about the Left? The "BBC", which on the fourth floor is the "MI6" and all the news goes through there. Do you know what "MI6" is? The Coroner of Communism. That was your model. You wanted to make ERT type "BBC", from the hardest propaganda channels of imperialism and capitalism. You don't disagree. And should we tell you something? There's one detail, Nikos Karathanasopoulos said it. How is it when it was SYRIZA, 55% SYRIZA, 2.9% the CPI? With 5.5%, that's half. With 55.4% of the New Democracy, 3.3% of the JRC. If you were to see the various temporary remains of the type Independent Greeks, Potami, and it doesn't fit, twice and three times as much in your day. So who was the opponent? The one who doubts the system. What did you do? You tried with the canals. Well, do you have the impression that shipowners, bankers, channel owners will make objective information? But are you so inconceivable? No way. You've chosen politics. They will defend their interests and they will also raise up governments when they can, who governments serve their own interests and when they are in difficulty, bring others as well. In fact, since you say that the New Democracy is feeding, it certainly does feed what we know. When we tabled the JRC's amendment to be free of charge - because it is not a question of advertising - for the coronary, you did not support it either, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution, or of course the New Democracy. Why? What were you talking about? Transparency! In other words, the Greek people must pay. How much is it so far, forty-eight? I've lost the account. Why? For the pandemic. Why did you not accept the JRC's amendment? So that you don't mess with the channels, as well as the order of private clinics. With transparency and a good deal of negotiation, not a one-and-a-half order. Poor bastards! They're fat! They don't know what to do with the money they have. So what do we say? Are there political responsibilities in this investment? There are. That's for granted. Criminals so far don't come up and no matter how much you tried, we couldn't find them. Is that why we said, since we couldn't and can't be haunted? Not sliding behind political purposes. We have said that it will be examined, looked into, and there we will find whether there are criminal responsibilities. Why refuse to be inquisitive and go directly pre-interrogative? Will Novartis have the luck with it and who else was it? The Papantonius, if I'm not mistaken. We're tired of hearing what eventually ends up in a bubble. So what else do we say? We're saying as long as the update is in the hands of businessmen, there's no way that it'll ever be objective. And the governments will blackmail and serve their interests and there will never be objective information. Finally - and I shall close, Mr President, and thank you - here you are fighting for national unity. Mr Tsipras, in fact, asked for a moratorium. Unity? What section will we have? Is the state of the worker, the unemployed, the young man who can't find a job with the tycoons of wealth? With those who drink the blood and sweat of the Greek people and have astronomical amounts? A million for a party spends. What unity to do with them? We don't understand! What is Greece? Doesn't he have classes? There are no people who are hungry, live in poverty, in misery, in impoverishment, in uncertainty, and there are others who are scattering their sweat, why is their sweat? What section are we going to do? If you think - and I speak on behalf of the JRC - that you will shut our mouths in the name of a pandemic, you have not read history. You didn't confuse us in other circumstances, on the wall and on the executive extracts. And stop invoking at least the history of these. They were neither with Mr. Piatt nor NATO, nor with the people's killers, nor with those you call them. They stood up, as we as a JRC stand, and we are not going to accept unity in order to serve the interests of capital. For now that we are discussing, you have brought this European reconstruction programme, etc., which will break everything left of labour rights. We are not going to do that back, organized, disciplined. Indiscipline and conflict. This is the position of the JRC.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u206	The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Theophilos Xanthiopoulos, has the floor. Mr. Blondopoulos, you have the floor in comfort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u207	Good luck has taken me to be the last speaker. It is well known that I keep exactly the time. So I'm not going to delay a process that started in the morning and we're getting completed at 6 p.m. anymore. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important meeting of the National Representation, precisely because there are issues which touch society and society awaits critical and useful answers from us. An unbreakable thread, a straight path connects the licensing of television media in 1989 without conditions from the then government, with the operation of the media without any price for the use of frequencies. This is a bad tradition that has been created, that is, for decades, by people who have had public frequencies to hold this public good, without paying the price they had to pay, which they had to pay, and which is self-evident that they had to pay. And the one who collected money for the Greek State, the one who set terms and conditions is referred back. The murder contract began and Nikos Pappas who secured the interests of the state pays the consequences of his attitude. You all realise very well that here we are giving a lesson to society that the one who seeks, the one who regulates the rule of law, will come at some point when a defendant is indicted, and it will come at some point that he is apologizing because he has done the self-evident thing, that is, he has done his duty toward the citizens and to his conscience. In what context is this debate taking place? They are essentially against two private companies and the opposing company of the main witness, Mr. Kalogratsa, is vindicated. It is justified by the International Court of Appeal and the basic, the main, the primary argument on virtuality is the amount of 3 million. And this decision, in the legal order, is ratified by a decision of the Athens Polypartite Court of First Instance and thus produces legal effects. I want it to be understood above all to the citizens that the basic argument, the basic weapon from the patronage of the category, was that these three million were, in order to get involved in jobs, has been swallowed down. There's no virtuality of the contract. There is no use to that amount for any other reason than that described in detail in the documents, in the private agreements which constituted the basis on which the court's decision was based. And a court ruling produces legal effects and deprives anyone of the right even to imply that these 3 million had a purpose other than the one clearly described in the two judgments of the courts. So New Democracy, which makes a selective use of evidence, clearly ignores, makes no mention of the proposal to set up the Committee of Inquiry into the existence of these two decisions, e-mails it suits, to show that Mr. Poppas has made underground routes with the help of Mr. Kalogrisa, in order to obtain illegal property, and puts this indictment in which we are called upon to rule. Therefore, Nikos Pappas is referred to in Article 159 of the Criminal Code for the bribery of a political official, for in the proposal he requests or receives, directly or through third parties, either for himself or for other kinds of benefits not entitled to or requires such in return. But we've said and agreed, because it's our obligation. The court accepted that these amounts were sums for the performance of a contractual obligation. In other words, there is still the basic starting point for the creation of a criminal charge. And it is impressive that so many lawyers, on the other hand, who are critical, do not realize that there is no point in further discussion. I'm closing, Mr. President. We are experiencing a tragic juncture as a society. The pandemic has painful effects. I am speaking to you as a member of the Drama that we had in November and December a hundred literally victims. Three hundred fellow citizens have lost their lives. Today we are learning that there are seven hundred people permeated and the situation is extremely worrying. At the same time, in this regime, the wolf is rejoicing and finding an opportunity for the government to share public money with it. In the last five days, Mr Nicholas has given seven assignments of more than EUR 1 million. Aren't there anyone on the conservative party who can pick her up? What about this story, which comes back provocatively and again provocatively? In this climate, Nikos Pappas is referred to, in this climate we will all count. In our view, you are seeking to shift people's interest from the deadlocks caused by your policy. You won't make it. You will suffer the consequences of your policy, especially the decision of Greek justice, which will condemn you to the conscience of Greek citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u208	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate is adjourned on the number 1782/09-03-2021 proposal tabled by thirty (30) Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, on the setting up of a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination, in accordance with Rule 86(2). Article 3 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and subsequently Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information by 09-07-2019, Nicholas Pappas, in the performance of his duties: 1) Donation of a political official against a serial and continuation (No. 159 PP) and (2) Plenipotentiary infringement (PK 259) in accordance with the proposal. We will be adjourning the sitting at 7 p.m. tonight and will continue with the vote as described at the beginning of the sitting. The sitting is suspended.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u209	The sitting shall be resumed. In accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution, paragraphs 8 and 9 of Rule 155 and Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, the Parliamentary Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the establishment or non-Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination. The decision shall be taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, otherwise the proposal shall be rejected. The vote will take place with the successive turnout of Members exclusively from the northern and southern door of the plenary Chamber to six groups of fifty people in alphabetical order and will leave the west door of plenary to the perimeter. Each group will enter half an hour to vote. In particular, the first group is from Mr. Avdela Apostolos until Mr. Vlaios Georgios from 19.00 to 19.00', the second group from Mr. Voloudakis Manosos - Konstantinos to Mr. Kallianos Ioannis (Thanos) from 19.30' to 20.00', the third group from Mr. Kalogannis Stavros to Mr. Lambropoulos Ioannis from 20.00' to 20.30', the fourth group from Mr. Lambroulis Georgios to Mr. Moraitis Athanasios (Thanos) from 20.30' to 21.00', the fifth group from Mr. Nicolopoulos Andreas to Mrs. Souli - Villia Maria - Helen from 21.00' to 21.00' and the sixth group from 21.00' from Mr. In order to carry out the secret ballot, you will be distributed at your entrance to the Chamber a file containing a voter named after the former Minister of State and Digital Communications Policy and Information Mr Nikolaos Papapas, a white voter and a white file in which the ballot will be placed. At the side of the name the words ‘yes’, ‘no’, ‘no’ shall be inserted. The vote shall be expressed by a cross under the above words. In the absence of a cross vote in any of the three words ‘yes’, ‘no’, ‘no’, the vote shall be deemed void. Any other symbol ‘x’ or ‘n’, which does not include alphabetical characters, provided that it has been voted under the three above words appearing on the ballot, shall also be accepted. In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the count shall be repeated. Although after this new count, the number of ballots is higher than the number of votes cast, they are destroyed before the sorting of the number of ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. On completion of the vote, the Committee of Inquiry will proceed to the sorting and counting of votes. The proposal put forward, as well as the lists, will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u210	In making the name of each Member, he will come to the vote, where he will place his file with his vote in the respective ballot and the Members will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Speaking on the list of MPs and voters will be carried out independently of an alphabetical order at the end of the speech of the Members of this group on the grounds of the proper functioning of the procedure. The vote shall not take place where the proposal to prosecute, if it is a Member, under Rule 155(8) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. I also inform you that sealed documents have been sent to the Bureau by letters of formal votes in accordance with Rule 70A of Parliament's Rules of Procedure. When a fellow Member is speaking by letter, the dossier will be delivered to the Committee of Inquiry in order to place the vote in the ballot and the voters to confirm the vote. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u211	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u212	Parliamentary Thesprotia Mr Yoyakas Vassiliou from New Democracy, MP Evros Gara Anastasia from the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance, is on the list. The voters are also called on to vote for Mr.Mellas Ioannis from New Democracy, Mr. Ilias Kalamianos Dionysius - Charalambos from the Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance. In accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Athanasios Bouras, Mr Athanasios Bouras, Mr III Vice-Chairman of Parliament and Mr B. Western Attica and its secretary, Evangelos Liakos, and Mr. II West Attica will be Chairman of the Committee of Inquiry. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Please start reading the directory.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u213	I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Social Affairs and the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs present their report to the draft law of the Ministry of Health: 'Urgent arrangements for the protection of public health against the continuing consequences of the CIVID pandemic -19, development, social protection and the reopening of courts and other matters'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u214	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and exporting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u215	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House: A total of 289 Members voted. 289 votes were found in the polls. I won 288 ballots. Undone 1 ballot. White 0 ballots. They voted in favour of the proposal: 187. They voted against the proposal: 85. 'PARTON' voted: 16. Following the outcome of the secret ballot, the figure shall be accepted. Proposal tabled by thirty (30) Members of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group for the establishment of a Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination pursuant to Rule 86(2) of the Rules of Procedure Article 3 of the Constitution, Articles 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and Article 5 of Law 3126/2003 on ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, as applicable, concerning the investigation of the following offences which may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and then the Minister of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information until 09-07-2019, Nicholas Pappas, in the performance of his duties: 1) Donation of a political official against and continuously (Article 159 of the Criminal Code) and 2) Obligation of a Derivator of Cruise and Continuity (Prime Code 259) in accordance with the proposal. The Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination shall, on the basis of the relevant Rules of Procedure, be composed of nineteen members and the deadline for the completion of the work of the Committee, for the submission of its findings and evidence to be within two months of the committee being set up. Do you agree with this proposal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u216	The House has agreed. Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u217	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept here that we should resolve the meeting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-30-S1-commons.u218	With the consent of the House at 22.05 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday 31 March 2021, and 10.00 p.m. on the subject of legislative work, according to the supplementary agenda.
