ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Secretary-General to the Prime Minister responsible for communication and information matters: ‘Integration into national law of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information’. I would like to inform you that we will start and finish with the list of speakers. However, I would like to tell you that at 12:30, at the latest at 12: 40', we should be done to get the bill passed, because at 13:00 the next bill needs to be started. Since the time has passed, I think that all Members will be able to speak. Due to the fact that yesterday there has been a technical problem, there have been two minutes left of Mrs Giannakopoulou's speech, which has already been linked. Here, Mrs Giannakopoulou, you have from me three minutes to complete your speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a little disgraceful because yesterday I started talking, but I was interrupted because of blackout and bad weather. However, the main issue I have raised before me is the very important issue of the unequal representation of the parties in the channels, with the main victims of the smaller parties. There is a very large representation of 90% of the government, followed by SYRIZA, and there is also a fight between the two, which certainly does not concern the rest of the parties, and it certainly does not involve and does not add anything to pluralism or pluralism or ultimately democracy itself. As far as this draft law is concerned, there is certainly an attempt, if you like, to create a new regulatory framework which reflects the new conditions in audiovisual media, both in terms of new platforms, such as Netflix and YouTube, and in terms of other platforms. In particular, as far as the directive is concerned, there are some positive regulations, such as a ban on incitement to violence, hatred against social groups or terrorist acts through audiovisual instruments. Of course, there are positive arrangements which relate to increasing the accessibility of disabled people, and of course, there are positive arrangements for protecting the physical, mental and moral development of minors. But there is also a number of negative points. I stress that this is first of all about the major issue that arises in the remuneration regulation of staff who runs in any way in the ERT, which will be determined by a ministerial decision. The answer given by the Minister during the debate certainly does not cover us. Of course, there is a need for wage managers to be involved in such bodies, which will correspond to their responsibilities. But, particularly in the midst of a pandemic, where thousands of people are suffocating from the economic situation in which they are present, this is an untimely and unconditional one, both in terms of substance and symbolism. That is why we ask the government to take this arrangement back. With regard to the deliberate ambiguity of extending the mandate of members of the independent authorities, namely, until the appointment of young people, we understand that there is a very great ambiguity that opens the way, opens the window, if you like, to arbitrary interpretations, which is very dangerous. It is a regulation that is completely outside the permitted framework. Also, while we see a series of regulations for central channels, there are no targeted support and support measures in the middle of a pandemic between the regional and local press, such as how the rent that local channels pay or many more could be subsidised. We therefore call for appropriate regulation and attention to both local and regional channels. And I close by mentioning the very important fact that has to do with the workers, that there is nowhere to mention the possibility of suspending the number of workers in the channels, particularly in the midst of a pandemic, as provided for in a number of sectors of economic activity. This is reasonable and certainly something that is not regulated and which is very negative for workers. I should like to close, Mr President, and thank you very much for the time you have given me - with reference to the three amendments that have been tabled and which concern the uninterrupted operation of radio stations, which we seek to take very seriously and to be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. We shall now proceed with Mrs Maria - Chapter which will speak via Webex. Mr. Giannoulis will speak physically. At this point, I would like to inform you that the parliamentary representatives have completed their course of speech, other than Mrs Adamopoulou, who has her denial and to whom I give the floor after four, five colleagues. Here, Mrs. Head, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent years the use of audiovisual media has changed greatly over the past few decades. The way we communicate, the way in which we entertain, become informed, socialised and exchange views, the way in which we make public our everyday lives makes us social, partakers of a new reality. Digital platforms that allow us to contact directly, like the one we are now using, the social networks that have invaded our everyday lives, the digital services, the orderly program tracking through the mobile or a tablet have created new data in the wider area of audiovisual media, as well as the traditional media. This data affects a number of aspects of our lives, demanding at the same time the institutional adaptation to today. Adding to them and the economic fundamentals of the pandemic and the fact that traditional media have suffered a rapid fall in their revenues, as the advertising market has suffered a serious blow during the pandemic we are still experiencing, makes today's bill very important. It is not a formal process of incorporating a European directive, but an essential need that brings answers to key institutional issues of audiovisual media on the one hand, but also to provide oxygen for the traditional instruments that have been so affected, such as most of the sectors of activity, on the other. In particular, we incorporate in national legislation the European Directive of 2010, as amended in 2018, for audiovisual media services. We are adapting the existing national framework to the way in which we currently consume audiovisual content. We define ethical rules. Those who so far apply to audiovisual media are extended to video-sharing platforms. We respond to the need to protect minors, whose number increases rapidly as users of digital services from harmful to their mental, physical and moral development content, both on television and video services on demand. We are introducing strict rules in relation to audiovisual content too, with a view to protecting people against incitement to violence, hate rhetoric and contents that constitute criminal offences. We prioritise increasing accessibility to their services for disabled people. Providers are required to submit an annual report on their plans and actions in this direction. The National Television Council will play an important role in implementing these rules. Ladies and gentlemen, the media sector, as was the case with almost all the businesses and the economic sectors, has been very much influenced by the pandemic. The advertising market has suffered a great deal of pressure with a corresponding impact on their revenues. The state comes to support these enterprises so that they remain viable on the one hand and maintain their employees on the other. The problem in the regional media is more acute. They are these local channels, radios, sites, which often go beyond the narrow limits of information. They are reference points for their regions, they inform the world of issues of general and international interest and of local issues, which puts them up and in the preferences of viewers, readers, listeners or visitors respectively. Their revenues are limited and in any case independent of their work. The Government recognises the unfavourable economic environment and the protracted economic difficulties in which they operate and support their daily struggle for survival with concrete measures. It exempts regional television stations from paying 1.5% of their annual advertising revenues for the production of cinematographic works and from the special advertising tax of 5% to 31-12-2022. It shall be possible to finance the coverage of due contributions from the media to the ancillary insurance institution of their staff for the years 2017 to 2020. In addition, regional radios and sites participate in the COVID-19 vaccination campaign, but also in all other nationally important campaigns. The process of licensing regional and thematic television stations for a clear landscape in the area takes its way. The final date of 31 December 2022 is fixed. This very serious issue will be resolved in a spirit of consultation with the station owners and their associations. The pandemic created extraordinary situations. As a state we must respond to these challenges and, at the same time, create the appropriate institutional framework that will lead us to the next day. In the later covid era many or some of the habits he inherited us to become part of our new reality. Digital services, the use of subscriptions for orderly entertainment purposes, the increase in our digital life I believe will be some of the ones that will follow us and remain in our lives. We are here to give time and supplies to the regional media to adapt to the new situation and meet the demands of modern times through an updated institutional framework of transparency and protection. Local communities need local means. They need them because they are an important part of their daily lives, and these as living organisations need health to stay and continue their work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, too. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President, and the opportunity for me to speak with a personal presence. I would like to start by saying that at the moment that Attica and society are being tested for bad weather, we have an obligation to put two questions in the public sphere very simply, calmly and intelligiblely before entering the bill. We ask whether, at the end of the day, Mr Chrysochide's decision, in the way he was announced, was in the interests of the people or the New Road. It's a question he wants an answer. I testify to my personal testimony that I was traveling this road on Monday morning. I started from Thessaloniki at 9 a.m. and around two and a half at noon, i.e. after about five and a half hours, I was here in the House. What I understand is that no one has taken care as a Civil Protection to remind me that the road is closed, that there was no need for chains and a series of other omissions and uncertainties. That's the one question. A second question, in order to make a practical contribution to dealing with the problems, rather than just unreasoning parties, is whether the TEDO has been implementing the decision for a year - the very bad decision, in my opinion - to have stopped controls through the network. These are the controls that led to the detection of hazardous points for electricity and, as you can see, if that had been done, we would have avoided much of the power cuts. I'm now entering the bill. Minister, you really have my solidarity and admiration for the fact that you have been left alone in this Chamber, in the absence of Mr Mitsotakis and the owner of the newspaper 'KEYX MANIA' - a privileged client of Piraeus Bank - and with a parliamentary group that, in fact, if it were another dialogue, I would be asking myself what you say. We are talking about whether public information is good and a part of democracy. I tried to find out why you insist on baptizing the fish meat, and why you think that half the truths that are lies will cover the obvious of the solution we recommend. In an amendment, we recommended that the administration of the "ERT SA" should emerge by a super-party majority of 4/5, a step towards the European acquis, a step forward that ensures the operation of the ERT as a news agency, as well as the educational and entertainment industry in Europe's standards. Why don't you do it? Why do you say half the truths that through ASPD the same result will happen while you know it's a lie? Because in the way you are thinking of introducing it as a procedure, there will again be a government majority of 3/5, with two general secretaries on the ADP side in advance, with the representative of the National Civil Service Centre appointed by the Government and two other members. So what we and the President of SYRIZA Alexis Tsipras who opens up the avenue, really, in order for there to be reliable public service broadcasting, do not achieve it and with pretexts, you are going to mislead us. And I will explain why, in other words, there is this insistence. I understand, therefore, Mr Levanne, that what you are afraid of is that an independent public service broadcasting, with the recognition of the mistakes we have all made in its management, is the steam engine that will also work in other areas of social and political reality, first and foremost in the private media, which, by means of this bill, you are trying to shrink by some dozens of workers while the Pappa law says that there is going to be people on the road. We're talking about contradictions of schizophrenics. I'm actually coming back. A public television reliably would involve information with the elements of secularism and isotope and the private media. You're afraid of it. A public health system will lure and close inequality and automation as to how important it is to be and not to discredit any public as parasite, state and bureaucratic. A public broadcasting, as recommended by SYRIZA and Alexis Tsipras, will be the steam engine to be accepted that AEGEAN cannot enjoy the 120 million euros in the public transport sector while at the same time dismissing workers and suspending 30% of its pilots. We cannot talk about the public good of transportation in buses that are stacked by people and there is no support, but AEGEAN should give EUR 120 million, and that is not the case for the environment, self-government and development. This kind of democratic crime, Mr Levanie, is not forgiven. And you know what? I insist that the vote on this amendment by SYRIZA is the stone to build something for the future. You fear the future, democracy and equilibrium, because you want to remain the image of a completely controlled system that makes the white one black. We saw it in bad weather too. I want to, however, because the footprint of the story is obvious, not to forget something. I shall begin, Mr Kaklamani - I am sorry, Mr President, to say by name - by saying that you had the sensitivity to express your positions on public service broadcasting directly. I'm taking two pictures. One is 2013 where the Samara - Venizelos government - unless you are genuine perpetrators of this logic - found no other way to lock the ERT that was closed with the "Black" Kedicoglou, Samara and Venizelos than with a couple of handcuffs. This story, this picture will come after you. The second is the subsequent President of the Parliament to be in the state of "sandwich" by the people of MATs, when he tried to support what caused global outcry, to fall "black". The BBC wondered if a coup took place in Greece. Was there a coup in Greece and fell "black" to close public service broadcasting? World originality with the name Samaras first - it sits on the same seats as you, Mr Levanje - and Venizelos, in addition to its tolerance! I'm tabling them for the Minutes. [[At this point, Congressman Christos Giannoulis presents for the Minutes the above photographs, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u7	Wait a minute, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u8	Which ERT do I dream and want? I dream of the ERT, where the President-in-Office of the Parliament had the opportunity for an ERT to be able, time and quality to develop his views. I dream of the ERT, which I served at the time of SYRIZA's governance, where Mr Stylianides confessed the day before - there is a colleague of Mera25 who was a self-sufficient and eyewitness - 'Yes, indeed, on SYRIZA, we were able to express our views and we did not have an effective ERT, which, at night in high view, has nothing else on three channels except entertainment'. He had the opportunity to express his views. And, in fact, we discovered this: it tells me "You're not just part of the ERT. I, too, am cut by the ERT." So through the ERT you are not only attempting to exterminate political opponents or squeeze them, but also inner-party opponents. I conclude by saying this: I would like to make a statement: 'Listen to what you say hours - hours?'. In other words, you're lying about the A.C.E.A. procedure that's pretty much similar to the proposal of ours. You say that Kyriakos Mitsotakis - he said the Member - guarantees freedom of speech, democracy and freedom of speech. But you're kidding? It's a joke! It's like you're saying that Keramea legislates reforms for education and Chrysochoidis condemns police autocracy and police phenomena. Is this the third joke that Mitsotakis ensures freelance? Oh, no, no, no,
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u9	Finish, Mr. Giannoulis, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u10	I'll be right back, Mr. President. Let me say one last thing. You've done a lot against freelance, against democracy. At least if you want to deal with history and next generations, listen to what the BBC chief said. And that is not a smuggling, as we suddenly heard that ERTFLIX took place at the initiative of the New Democracy. In other words, the rename of hybrid TV that started in SYRIZA is your own conquest...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Giannoulis, please hang up. Respect we have to finish at 12:30 an hour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u12	You saw how hard the role is...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u13	Yeah, but you see, you've had seven minutes and you're talking nine and a half!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u14	I shall close, Mr President, with one wish. I wish in this Chamber the logic and bravery of what the strong man of the BBC, Tony Hall, said. He contacted Antonis Samaras. It could also be addressed today to Thodos Livanios or Mr. Mitsotakis of "Da capo". He referred to the Greek Prime Minister, who urged ERT to open immediately - which you closed then - as he said, the public media and their independence by the government characterise democratic societies. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u15	We shall now proceed, and I would ask you to respect the time. If not all speakers are completed until 12: 40, they will not speak, because at 13: 00 the time begins the other bill. We shouldn't eat them the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u16	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u17	All right, Mr Giannoulis, the world is not broken, but I too have to defend other colleagues. Mr. Heimaras has the floor now. Here, Mr. Himara, you have the floor. Good morning!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u18	Good morning, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, it proves a lot of Officerial Representation that, with their presence and public speech, they really offer useful services to the government. They are very easy opponents because citizens cry at times of crisis, such as this, they want to speak wise and measured. They seek security and certainty. The phenomena of the ERT's bias during SYRIZA's day had emerged both within the party organs and in public as well as Mr. Nikos Friend and Mr. Kologlou but, of course, also Mr. Tsakalotos, who said attributes that the government did not deal with the subject of objectivity properly. We want, he said, a public service broadcasting objective, and that's where we didn't do well. I'm coming to the bill. The development of smart devices technology is rapid and this implies fundamental changes in the way, quality and speed of information. The trend of consumers, especially young people, is to monitor audiovisual material on the Internet, but also to move content generated by users themselves. Most of us have witnessed material sharing with encouragement to excessive food and drink consumption or inappropriate advertising for minors or the transmission of news notes without sign language or even without the simultaneous display of subtitles. Multiple are examples of videos describing ways of using drugs or even ways of suicide on the so-called 'dark Internet'. It is commonly accepted that we are living in the age of'social media' and we are all using them. We all recognise that in this volatile environment, which is often even dangerous for our children, for minors, it is necessary for the country to create a new regulatory framework, to lay down the rules that enhance digital progress, to improve and modernise the existing way of operating audiovisual media. That is what we are doing today with the incorporation of this directive. The directive incorporates prohibits the incitement by means of audiovisual media services to violence or hatred against social groups or terrorist offences. The accessibility of disabled people to audiovisual media services is increasing, by strengthening tools such as sign language and subtitling. At the same time, with the National Accessibility Authority bill, whose debate has been completed in committee as far as I know, Greece is finally forming and starting to implement policies that ensure the rights of disabled people throughout the range of social life. It strengthens the protection of the physical, mental and moral development of minors from inappropriate content. National and European production of audiovisual works shall be strengthened. The obligation to protect minors is laid down for the first time. The introduction of national codes of conduct is encouraged, with the aim of further protection of consumers, especially minors and, of course, public health. Ladies and gentlemen, the second part of the draft law deals with matters within the Directorate-General for Communication and Information. I am first aware of the need to support regional media. I know the important role that these play on a daily basis for citizens' unobstructed and objective information, their everyday struggle for survival, the financial problems they have to face. I know, however, that regardless of these problems, regardless of the many difficulties that pandemic has caused, the workers of the regional media are always at the forefront of informing our compatriots, next to the problems of everyday life, alongside the small and large issues that concern the Greek region. In front of and behind the claims of local communities, I was helping and strengthening the fair demands of local leaders. That is precisely the important role that the Greek Government is today practically recognizing with the specific provisions. We are essentially strengthening the regional press and we are doing so now, not a few weeks before the elections, as our SYRIZA predecessors did in 2019 with the advertising tax. With today's legislation we are exempting regional television stations from paying 1.5% of their annual advertising revenues for the production of cinematographic works. We exempt them from the special advertising tax of 5% to 2022. We also introduce to the regional media the possibility of financing the contributions due to the subsidiary insurance institution of their staff for the years 2017 to 2020. We provide the possibility to regulate and repay in seventy-two instalments of employers' contributions to the EDEAP for the years 2017 to 2020 and to extend the procedure for the licensing of regional media until 31 December 2022 and up to six months later for radio stations to finally clarify the place of operation on the radio. I take this opportunity, Minister, to raise a crucial issue concerning regional television stations and every citizen in the Greek region. In many areas, such as in Fthiotis and especially in the area of the Municipality of Domokos, residents are informed by regional channels of a different region than the one in which they themselves belong administratively. For example, the resident of the New Monastery of the Municipality of Domokos in the Region of Stereas, Greece, has been informed about the data from Thessaly, since with the current frequency map the New Domokos Monastery is covered by the TV stations of Thessaly and not by the "STAR Central Greece". The same is happening in Fokida. To understand the size of the problem, the capital of the prefecture, Amphissa, cannot see its regional television and, however, only in the whole of Central Greece, only 50% of residents have access to the media of the district's headquarters, Lamia. It is a problem that, if you want to have a negative impact on the strengthening of regional awareness, which is necessary and capable of supporting rational, balanced and fair regional development. It has been discussed many times within and outside Parliament, and I believe that we should give a solution immediately, which should serve the proper and timely information to every inch of the country. That is why prior to the authorisation of regional SMEs, the question of television coverage must definitely be resolved. The scope of regional broadcasting must coincide with the geographical limits of each region. We must ensure that local residents are able to access local information. Ladies and gentlemen, the provincial instruments deal with local issues, which cannot cover any national channels. These instruments serve to update, serve democracy and employ many employees, many young children running to the edge, chasing the report with great difficulties. We must therefore and must support them not only now but also in the dilemma, so that we do not deprive any of the democratic right to information from any of our fellow citizens, wherever they live. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u19	Good. Mrs Bryssidou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the media has changed rapidly in recent years. New data takes over the space. So we must organise the rules and the framework in which those who provide this information and also ensure that citizens are able to approach the means in the best possible way, but also safely. Essentially through this draft law we incorporate the European directive into national law, which provides for important issues which we as a state also wish to follow. It is important because it protects people who use and especially the new generation and the young children whose physical and mental health is at risk. We have seen examples in recent years that have been particularly harmful. It also enables people with disabilities easy access, which we have followed as government in other areas, and of course it is our obligation and must also be ensured in this area. A third is also important to monitor the messages that are being followed by citizens and not to be such as to promote violence, which will raise feelings of hatred or even generally of negative behaviour. These are top issues that go with this bill in our national legislation, in accordance with the European directive, so that the present and the future can be guaranteed. The second part, which is also important, is support for the media, television stations, radios, press releases, websites, which have also been affected by the economic crisis and must certainly be taken care to be able to support them. It has been heard by Vice-Presidents with an insecurity that this support is intended to help providers probably, so that there is a positive attitude towards the government, to mitigate their criticism, because there is this positive move. The choices are not designed to help specific businesses and providers but to ensure that businesses are sustainable, because their sustainability also ensures jobs. It is essentially what is done for all workers throughout the entire period of the pandemic and in general the economic crisis. I would also like to refer in particular to the care and support of regional media. We, the regional parliamentarians, have often expressed to the Minister the need for support and the importance of regional instruments, because the people in the region cannot be informed of their local issues otherwise, we cannot highlight the region with its advantages, we cannot record the problems so that they can be resolved, there is no other way to record all the data. It is the mirror of transparency and plays a very important role in the development and progress of a region. I think it is important that there is financial care for regional instruments and that will be a great basis for their sustainability. The financial support that is being given, as in the centralised instruments, to enable them to pay their debts to the EDEAP, which has been in place for three years, with the regulation of the seventy-two instalments, is an important step, as well as the provision to cover the debts created for the subsidiary fund and care. It also abolishes 1.5% of the tax on advertising revenue, as well as 5% on advertising as a whole by 2022. And here I would like to say that the region still has many journalists, young people who are struggling in everyday life in difficult conditions. It is a profession that is controlled daily, which needs a lot of work and continuous information. That is why these moves are important. They'll help both our area and the space. Finally, I would like to refer to the news and the issue of the bad weather that has arisen and say that there have been unfavourable conditions, particularly in Athens, which was not customary in these procedures, and I think it was a success to have decisions that create safety for citizens, they are not at risk of either waiting long hours on the road or of accidents or putting their health at risk. We've heard comments about the power cut. It is not a government choice that some branches and trees have fallen into the cables and have been interrupted. Criticism can be exercised if it is not done well, or if it is not done quickly, but being criticised from day one, I think it is again an option for insecurity and shows that there are no serious reasons for criticising and looking for the weather or looking for the pandemic to criticise. I think that citizens see everyday life and are able to judge what is for the benefit and what is at the expense of security and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u21	We're moving on with Mrs. Sunday Malama. Closes the second speaker cycle. I will give Mr Velopoulos the floor at 12 noon after Mrs Adamopoulou, before entering the third cycle. He's a gentleman! He's giving up his position!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u22	Whatever the President says! Mrs Malama has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill full of gifts to canalarchs, while information in the country tends to become a case of Maximos, the appointed Prime Minister, the poster with special contracts and very high wages, external producers with super-cost costs - and all of this to ERT - and of course the great interests that control the audiovisual landscape as a whole. The results of this diffusion of information on Latin American-type models have unfortunately been seen in the last few years in the most unequivocal way in the ERT's tall-tipped rampage, where the line fell to literally bury the Prime Minister's Catherine Coronary Party. But with the same vulgar rack a second line was given, that of burying the photographs with the abrasions between Mr Lignade, the Prime Minister and Mrs Mendoni. You should be literally ashamed of the fact that you changed ERT to a dug of disgusting government propaganda. These are the results of the institutional hat of the operation of ERT and the Athenian News Agency by the Prime Minister, which is unprecedented for European data. The second point I would like to raise, because it has also been very alarmed by us, is the fact of the outdated report by the TV station 'STAR' on complaints of sexual abuse by a minor by Mr Lignade. The title of the report: "Great director in the eye of the cyclone for nothing" is a shame on Greek television. These illegitimate lines of the report that I read to you and I am ashamed of myself are: "The offence of the seduction of a minor has been dropped" or "the complaints against the director fall into the void". All this, ladies and gentlemen, is a monument of misery. And we ask you: will the National Broadcasting Council intervene? Will this television station be punished for this misery, with which even the shame itself has been disgraceful, or do you think that the apology of the telegrapher is sufficient? But this is the television scene you want, and that is why you share simple gifts to canalarchs. With this bill, not only will this television station be punished but, like everyone else, it will be favoured by the provisions and by the provision of the allowance to be paid for television licences, but also by the possibility of reducing staff and replacing workers with contractors. We ask you: why do you give every channel owner 3.5 million, discharge him of the obligation to pay the annual department for granting his licence? When the Greek economy is one step ahead of the absolute gap, why do you reduce the workers from four hundred to three hundred sixty? These settings, obviously, are the continuation of the Pecha list, gifts to provide communication immunity to your government friends. I would also like to focus on another issue, that of 1.5% on the turnover of subscribers to strengthen the Greek cinema. The first thing I would like to stress is that, throughout this pandemic, you have left its big netizens completely in a tax-free context. You do not dare to tax Netflix and all the other back-up platforms are active in the country, while this market is growing and the money that is moving is huge. Thus, in this sense, 1.5% for the Greek cinema seems very little on a huge duty free tick. The second question is that this amount does not go to the Greek Film Center, but to EKOME, which, in addition to film productions, also finances private channel series productions, i.e. again gifts to private channels. The Greek Film Center is the guardian of the Greek cinema. He testified to you his opposition to this arrangement. The people of Greek cinema condemn you for this decision. The Greek Filmmakers' Company is giving you the same thing because you don't listen to them. FERA, which has forty-eight organisations, thirty-three countries and twenty-three thousand European directors, confirms in its letter the arguments of the Greek cinema world in Greece, which warns of the weakening of Greek producers at national level and in the markets in the way you want to integrate this directive. We say to you: Strengthen the Greek cinema, the productions of Greek films, as is the case in all the serious European countries, especially now that our culture is literally at risk of extinction. Stop deceiving institutions, act as guardians of interests and listen to the people of culture who incur you for all your management in the field of culture and before the pandemic, but also during the pandemic. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate once again my grief over the issue of ERT. I remember the "black" of your resignation to the ERT, when the whole world had reacted. You've always seen the Greek TV as your shop. Then you built the abortion of the ICU and NERIT and we were invited in 2015 to rebuild the ERT3, the ERT1, the ERT Sat, the ERT HD, all the radios with all the employees. And all this on the ruins of a disaster caused by you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to point out, which seems to you to be forgetting, that the processes for the digital transition had been carried out in the government of SYRIZA. These things don't happen from one day to the next. The first jeneral rehearsal, the first ERTFLIX test took place in 2018. External productions and the whole leased program, movies, serials, documentaries were made in 2018-2019, and you should know that all of this one television station one season before should have made their orders.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u24	And that's what you're closing down with, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u25	This is what I shall close, Mr President. Now, of course, you haven't changed to the minimum yet again you want to make the public television a government scarecrow again and perhaps weaken it already. You do not learn from the past and come back to yourself. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u26	Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, I am giving up my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u28	All right, all right! Did you see, Mr. Velopoulos? Don't complain!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u29	No, from you never!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u30	No, from Mrs. Adamopoulou. I took it else! The Step is ready. The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I should like to start with praise to the government, and I have to do so, because sometimes in politics we make mistakes. But I am pleased to say that the mistake was corrected by the Minister yesterday, after intervention by the Greek Solution for the unfortunate choice of laws - I would like to believe - to include a Community directive which included the term 'national minority'. I have to say that it is worthy of speech and we have to mention this. Of course, that means something very simple. Do you know what the problem is, Minister, in our country? I'll tell you now. That we're putting auditors in need of control. The president's laughing. In Greece, the auditor needs control, another auditor above. What does that mean? The Ministry took a Community directive, reproduced it, translated it and delivered it exactly as it had. You brought the sains you've got to the Ministry. I say at one time that it is not the ministers or the Prime Minister's fault for what is happening in the country, but for the sains that you gather there. Tell them, you guys, wait a minute! Didn't you see it? "National minority"! Greece has no ethnic minorities. How can they make such a mistake? I'm a North Helladite. I don't know what your origin is. I guess it's from the ICUs. The last name is seven insular. There, in northern Greece we have the bad ones - I will say it directly - Turkish agents, the few Muslims, but also the bad few Skopje agents. When Pentarovski comes out twenty days ago and talks about a Macedonian minority in Greece, so do others along with some agents, you must not give them the window by law to an appeal that they will make in the process - the lawyers I imagine they know that - using the law that says about ethnic minorities. That's what the Greek Solution did, and that's why we're here. We have not entered Parliament here to make suggestions in the context of populism or, as I have heard, the intelligence of patriotism. From where and until where is the protection of the national sovereignty of a country, of the dismissal of issues of national minorities is a patriot? We did the self-evident thing. We did not say to claim India because Alexander the Great went there. We said the self-evident thing, don't open the door. That is why we are very careful many times about what we are saying in Parliament and so we will go ahead, they want - some do not want. I am very pleased - some have been stuck in the unconstitutional - which Mr Scandalides - who is here - and SYRIZA with Mr Lappa have agreed that these two words should be removed, a 'national minority'. I have to pay tribute to you. But now, let's go to the tragedy. Minister, canals, a lot of sinful story. I know her personally, because many decades I've been dealing with the channels. Honestly, isn't the Prime Minister and the Ministers of New Democracy ashamed? I say this with a lot of sympathy to his face, because he's a reformer. Isn't he ashamed of the injustice that happens every day in the channels? He doesn't understand her? Let me tell you differently. You are operating as a government with private economic criteria the channels themselves. You're right. You have money - from the fallout of the Greek people, of course - and you feed the advertising channels, with "we wait at home", "we leave from outside", "we sit here, far beyond". You're right. But isn't he ashamed when he doesn't see the JV on the channels? Isn't he ashamed when there's no KINAL on the channels? Isn't he ashamed when SYRIZA doesn't exist, as it should be, on the channels? I'm not talking about us. Black sheep is us. I realise that they do not want to show us, perhaps because the patriots are afraid that the good voters of the New Democracy will join us. That's why the New Democracy is preparing and strange streaks, a turbulouki, a symphony, creating other pieces, pieces, thinking it's gonna stir up our course. He's not intercepted. Do you know why? Because the Greek people trust us, because we are serious, measured and always on a specific political basis, so that we can help any government to do that. You know what he said, dear Minister, Chomsky? That the man who controls the media controls the public's mind. You do that, but you do it in such a stubborn way that you wash the brain of the Greeks. You are washing away your government’s sins constantly through channels. That's what bothers me as a human, unleashing. I'd ask a question. I want you or the Prime Minister to tell me how much money you have given so far to the Greek-wide channels. Numbers I want to hear. Is it 80 million, 90 million, 100 million? I did a little suma, and I estimated that about 80 to 90 million were taken by the oligarchs. Because who has the channels? The deep, rich Savvidis, Mr Marinakis, the rich Alfouzo - is not compared, of course, with the other two - Mr Vardinoyannis, the rich people. We gave 80 to 90 million to the rich people and let the retired person wait for his pension. But I want you to tell me how many millions you gave them. I would like the Greek people to hear it through the mouth of the New Democracy and to understand that the information they receive is a rewarding benefit. I'm giving to get it. He's giving the government what he wants. And what does he want you to get? Television immunity and the worst? Television containment of the rest, dripping. That's what bothers me as a human in the context of democracy. The voter of KINAL, the voter of the Greek Solution, the voter of SYRIZA, the KKE and Mer25, do not feel wronged by this democracy that does not represent their parties on the channels? It's the channels that feed them state money, though. They're not private business. Let's get this straight. They are not the channels of private enterprises, since they are indirectly fed by the State. Let's talk about it. Also, what bothers me is that all day they make you air, "aferim masters, aberration masters." Why? Where is it that we journalists used to say that journalism controls power? No one's checked, whatever everyone wants, they're out, they're doing whatever they want. All the ministers have been gone lately. What happened? I've been watching every morning for over a week or ten days, all the ministers, Adonish, Vorides. Or it pulled them - and well - by the Prime Minister, the ear - "stop talking" - or they're afraid of what happened with the "them" - in in introductory words the word - with the "Medea" to come out and say the truth, that they are incompetent, not the ministers concerned, but many of the ministers. As far as regional channels are concerned, Minister, I have also spoken with you. Consider yourself among the young politicians and you can leave prints positive, though. I told you the regional channels are a hundred sixty. That's where about three and a half thousand people work. They grow, they have no money. I told you about DIGEA. Reduce by 50% DIGEA. I know there's an economic weakness, I understand. Who has DIGEA, but, Minister? The channels where you've given money. The big channels. When we say 'DIGEA', we are talking about a consortium of the big channels, which has become abstract. They are, that is, the ones with large private channels, the providers of DIGEA for regional channels. We gave them 80-90 million, but we're not discounting the regional channels 50%. Why, Minister? It's unfair. Also, I read the bill. You're not a TV guy, and that's what I like. You don't go out on the channels. This shows a person's seriousness. I will say, however, that it is coming out tomorrow morning - Mr Heitas said yesterday, if I am not mistaken - Velopoulos to 'ANT1' or 'SKAI' - from 'SKAI' and from outside I am not going through - Minister, and I am going crazy and saying a lot of crap, lies and faints. He'll be called to pay the channel my own hybri. These aren't legal things, they can't have the channel's responsibility for what he's going to say - live show, but it's filmed, you can do your taped-up, too - Hox-let's say it like this - or Chocolate. So you make mistakes. You can't keep an eye on the MP who's going to a channel with a law that's very curious. This kind of racism, etc., on races, etc. They bother me. Why? Because there is no equivalency. If I exaggerate Jesus Christ here, from the Step of the House, if I exaggerate the Orthodox religion, there is no crime, only by imprisonment. But here, in this bill you're bringing here, there's no need for indictment. The D.A.'s gonna do the prosecution. And in your previous law, we said, "Put in the Orthodoxy." Why don't you put it on? Tell me why? Do we have to find Orthodoxy and priests all day? You see, then, that you're leaving fast for future filtration events of what we're going to say. It's a censorship of what you're doing. I'm telling you again. Can't I just say the word illegal immigrant? Since, based on the Greek dictionary, they are illegal immigrants. You tell the refugees. I won't forbid you. But don't dictate me to tell the Greek as I wish. You also have responsibilities for the PSE. You know, I don't have a personal problem with the PSE. I have a cash problem, 750,000 fine. I don't care about any president of the PSE, nor do I care about the presence of man, who is and what he does. He's nonexistent to me. I'm not saying it. He said so himself. He came here to the committee and said: 'I can't work, I can't work, I can't. He's paid. All right, there's a lot of money in the state and he's paying for slow payrolls. And you're giving him more responsibilities. And here's the crazy, irrational, stupid thing, that is, it's not logical for me: To build a building, my Minister, you're starting on the foundation. You're building on top. You give him responsibilities, he can't work, but the PSE isn't even irritating. Illegally, the PSE, with two members less, operates on the Vice-President and member. I have told the President of Parliament a long time ago: "Get in, son, two members, since the store is yours anyway, the New Democracy, you put them in and put two to complete its composition." So instead of completing the composition of the PSE and then giving it responsibilities, you start with the penthouse. It's gonna drop the structure together. But that is why, because you legislate on your precursor by making mistakes, your choices unfortunately fail and I tell you to understand it. I'll tell you one more thing: Stop terrorizing the world. Really! I can't take these channels anymore. She was coming out on a TV channel - the "MEGA" if I'm not mistaken - she did report on the mask properly, when she came out of the report - the lady didn't get any trouble that she was taken off the camera from above - she pulls the mask and says to the other "go on your mask". There's been this in the air! Hypocrisy runs out. Does the PSE not see these reports? Is the other one, the Evangelatos, the "master I eat" from "Home" 800 grand - how much did he get - and he says that if you do not inoculate, do not circulate in the street? Who gives him the right of this gentleman to have such a position? Journalism is another thing. He's not a terrorist in the world. It's information for the world. But Yannis Richos said something very simple: "Don't be afraid of them. In your fear they bet." They terrorize the world because the government bets on fear so that it can impose what it wants. You're wrong. It reminds me of the boiling pot. Put a lid on the top and the steam stirs. At some point the lid, Minister, will shut up and if it's thrown up, I'm afraid they'll take away from you and you very badly. Because this wrath of the world will become a dynamic you can't imagine. And let's go to "Medea" and to incompetence. Minister, do you know who Medea was? So Medea, Minister, slayed her children to avenge the man who left her. Do you know what you've done? You have slaughtered Greece with your inability to do "Medea". That's what you did, you cut it in half. There has suddenly been a Minister unreserved - to tell you all about it, it is not Chrysochoidis, the minister responsible for shutting down roads, ending lastly - illegally, paralysed and commanding the national road to close. Tell me which country is this happening? I've lived in Germany, traveling to Italy, I see what's going on. I will give an example: what is bothering me is that the government is closing the national roads, Minister, has decided to shut them down so that private individuals do not symptomaticly pay the clauses, because they did not shut down the roads themselves, because they were not cleaned up, they could not be paid tolls by the Greeks. Say reason now, listen to reason! The government decides to close the streets, Mr. Scandalidis, private individuals do not pay the clauses, because the government has decided to close the streets, but on toll I pay! Where have you guys seen this being a serious ruler? I shall therefore give the example of Italy. The "Medea" - and its worse form - was passed by Italy two days ago. They had snowfall for two days, not one day. What did the Italians do? They interrupted the traffic for two hours, sent all the machines to the streets with salt and trucks to clear the road and reopen the road. In Greece, with the first snow, we have a ban. Do you think so, Minister? So it doesn't happen - it says - accidents. Wait a minute, we knew it ten days ago. There wasn't suddenly a bump and it started snowing. We knew it ten days ago. Where are we ready? And on the other hand, can I tell you something else? We didn't have a lot of traffic. Because of a coronary traffic was banned. So, what did you close? Let me tell you what you've booked, 'cause now I'm becoming a bad option, I don't want to be, but I'm going to be? So the company won't pay the fine. That's the only way to justify it. Mr Chrysochide's choice is justified only so that the company does not pay for any other reason, since there were not many cars available! There is also the law that - to your credit, because I do not want to blame anyone - the New Democracy voted for him. Mr. Karamanlis brought him here. They will pay compensation if the private companies close over an hour. It is a specific law, Art. 65, Art. 4663/2020. So, what did you do deliberately or involuntarily? You've given a million euros to this gentleman who's got the road and didn't have trucks, he didn't have any food, he didn't have salters to do it for himself. That's what you did. That's not serious. The worst part is that you're paying compensation for the Lonely agreements that Souflias made. It's the Souflias kids. He was Mr. Bobola's acquaintance, a relative, something was. Format Mr. Souflias. You have him as a Buddha. So this Buddha, together with the former Prime Minister before they left, signed an agreement - listen to an agreement! - so that when the road doesn't work, because we have a coronary, the Greek citizen will pay compensation to the company for the revenues he lost. That's not a deal. It's called "slaught me to sanctify me." Is that how you govern Greece? Is that how Greece is governed? You made a mistake. Also, yesterday morning started a train from Thessaloniki at 9 a.m. Do you know what time it's arrived? Nine o'clock at night! The private ones talked. You do everything. There's some strange guys coming out to "SKAI" especially. I like the channel. I always see my opponents what they say, to know how serious our rivalry is. It's inconsistent, actually. They say it was PPC, PPC, the "bad" PPC that dropped the current and became what happened and afflicted two hundred and fifty thousand families. OSE is private. Twelve hours Athens-Thessaloniki for throwing snow here in Shamari? This means that the management of water, electricity and various goods must be management by the State. Goods shall not be valued in material value. It's priceless. I also want to make a gift, Mr. Scandalidis. Many experts have told us that Athens will flood and the waters will reach the Marathon, that the planet, climate change, change the environment, we will not see snow. Ten years ago, I said it here in the House. The experts said here, had a committee and said Athens would never see snow again. Where are these climate change experts and scientists? The scientists, the great ones who told us that the planet would flood, we will be on canoe, boats - terrorism - everyone has been hidden. Unfortunately, Minister, you are the government that knows very well to close the verb 'I'm closing'. "I close houses, close shops, close business, close people, close streets." Close the eye on Erdogan with the investigatives. That, then, means something: it is a government which, unfortunately, is no longer just incompetent, but has become dangerous to Greece. That's the problem. You're dangerous. And I'm not going to go into personal controversy with the Prime Minister that he was drinking coffee in Kolonaki, etc. That's not what I'm worried about. I don't go into this spiral, nor into populism, but it also wants a serious one. I'm just going to tell you, Minister, although you're talking to the consultants there, I don't know what you're doing. I can't see journalists coming out on the channels drinking coffee with the Prime Minister together and smiling. I cannot see journalists - where you are, Mr Giannoulis, colleague - who are responsible for informing the Greek people, going out with the cafes and the Prime Minister together in Kolonaki. These are messages showing the indulgence of information and the decency of these natural perpetrators towards the citizen and his information. Listen, Minister, today the official functioning of the FBI is working. They want people to enter the FBI website, Minister, and they can't get in. They're calling 210-5289000 and it's not working. They're calling the FBI in 1555 and they're not working! I've had my people phone and nothing's working since this morning. Is that our final state? Well, digital is good information, it's good to know what you're telling us, it's good for the fairy tales we feed the world, but, unfortunately, Minister, things are very difficult, especially in the economy. Yesterday the Ministry of Finance, Mr. Scandalidis, did something very unpleasant. When SYRIZA did it in the past, the New Democracy's railroads had come out. Wipes the accounts of public bodies. He takes and sucks whatever money there is from public bodies. He forces them by command to transfer all their reserves to the National Bank. This is a message that liquidity does not exist in the state koruna, that the money is dry. Central cash management will be managed by the Treasury by the Treasury, indisputably this. In 2015, when SYRIZA applied it, then the country's current Prime Minister had left - then he was chief of the military opposition - and said that this means bankruptcy. When you drain public sector reserves, it means bankruptcy and new memos are provided. The hole is EUR 295 million in the January revenues, EUR 1.5 billion in the deficit since the first month. We also had Martin Jurda's resignation, you know him, the one from HSH, Minister. What's going on? Will you tell the Greek people the truth? The German newspaper 'HANDELSBLATT' comes out and says that in the first quarter of '21 we will have a further fall in GDP of 10%. You don't tell the Greek people the truth. The liquidity pillow - which you say we have money - from 37 billion euros, went to 31 billion euros. But you're not saying the money we get is at a interest rate of 2.5% a year. So Greece is borrowing again. We're borrowing as a country and I don't know when we're gonna pay them. At the end of December public debt reached 208% of GDP. Listen, Mr. Ministers, sometime you'll leave. It's for granted. The point is, you haven't made a plan for the economy. You have neither supported the focus nor the families nor the employees nor the shopkeepers, nor only the supermarkets and the multinationals have you supported. Here you are like the tire and I give my proof. Supermarkets don't get stuck until the other day. Suddenly we want a double mask in the supermarkets. Yesterday your experts said so. I would like to say this because there is another issue: I learned from Brussels yesterday that projects will be pre-funded by the EUR 31 billion recovery fund. In other words, the bankrupt Greek state will finance its own funds and wait for it after a couple of years if it gets it. Who's going to fund? The few of them again. Who? The ones with the windmills. You have devastated Evia, you guys, this beautiful island, because it's an island. You've devastated her. When we went to Thessaloniki, from the plane up there, I saw a mountain with wind turbines only. Why? Tell me why! Can't we find another way to produce wealth? Just air? With a job in twenty-five wind turbines? Are you all right? And you're giving all this money, which is a recovery of the economy, to fortifications. Shame on you! I'm telling you, shame! And this is where the government talks about investors. ‘Investors coming’. The only investors I see, Minister, are the illegal immigrants breaking in. There are no other investors. But they get 500 euros a month. Funds, big companies! Yesterday he closed off a large plastic company, "PIPELIFE", huge in our country. They hung up. Seventy-seven people on the street. I'm telling you, we have a problem. The economy is the country's problem. That's what you don't see, and that's what's bothering me, because there's gonna be tough times. I would like here not to say about your mistakes and your omissions on the issue of the coronary. But I'll tell the lies and the contradictions. I've never heard of any lies in the canals in my life. Firstly, to make it clear, what does an invader mean in the Greek language? The one who doesn't make vaccines. I've done a lot. I am therefore not an anti-infectionist - clear things - as are the other Greek colleagues. We have expressed reservations. Another to express my reservations and another to me is the "X" journalist of the 1500 euros of this channel, "SKAI", or "STAR" or any channel, "tv Lebanon" or "tv Velopoulos" that I am an anti-infectionist. One more, the other one. The whole news comes out of Germany, Mr. Scandalides, that scientists have been bought by the German government to justify lockdowns. ‘DEUTCHE VELLE’ has published it. No Greek channels transmitted this news. We're talking about Germany's biggest news agency. So it says: "German officials needed the Koch Institute and other institutes to produce terrorist models for spreading the health crisis, which the government then used to get the lockdowns." I am sure only the German scientists are'saving'. The Greeks aren't allowed. I am sure that the Greek scientists have never been "hard". The Germans are oiled. The Greek channels hid it and the government continues to terrorize the world with the coronary. The CDC in the United States admitted to cooking deaths in the United States. I'm telling you evidence now. Contrasts and lies: The nobel chemist comes out, Michelle Levi - form, nobel - and says: "COVID -19 is as dangerous as flu. Clearly people die if you don't notice." No one transmitted this news to Greece. Everyone buried her. I won't say what other scientists say and what they don't say. But I will tell you: masks: at the beginning we had not taken care of any masks, the Prime Minister was here saying that there was no need for masks. It was here. You told us in March, in April, that there was no need for masks. We didn't have masks. When our friends made mask factories, we needed masks. And now we need two masks. I'll tell you something, Minister, I'll propose to you. As they give soaps to two, a gift, you say, two masks, a gift. We'll take three and wear all three. One will be a gift, though. We're not paying her. So that's what makes you unreliable. And, unfortunately, you're not persuasive. That's what bothers me. I will not say, of course, about the cases we have had a lot of side effects. You'll tell me scientific...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u32	Don't say that, Mr. President. Help the process a little.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u33	Yes, Mr. President. I'll close now. But what has bothered me most, Mr Minister, is this: your Minister comes out and says that on 14 February, on the day of the lovers - that is, for a fake saint - of Valentine's Day, we are opening the flower shops. He opens the flower shop for the Greeks to send flowers. The Greek has no scarf to cry. The smile has left, the joy, the Greeks have been imprisoned and imprisoned to send flowers. Here you opened the flower shops and booked them again the next day. Is that reasonable? So, why would the churches be closed? I say, why would the churches be closed? And it says any of us after - and he's right - that you're Christian, that you're Greek-phobic. Put into the legislation, you were talking about racism, Greek-phobia and Christian-phobia. Why don't you put it on? Because on this basis, I could sue or complain to someone who abuses Jesus Christ. I wanted to say something about the consequences, but I'm closing here. Minister, Kisinger, a form of questionable and foreigner, had said something: Moderation is only a qualification, but when others realize that you have other options. You're too modest - not to say another word - with the Turks. You are very modest, to the limit of the question of the national patriotic reaction. I'm saying that to understand it. "TSME", as we do exploratory, comes out in the Aegean Sea in the twentieth meridian and does not go out to Kastelorizo. So I ask the Greek Government this: Is it going to be a nanoscopy on board? Is he going to resalt and annihilation? It will not, because the investigations continue and Germany has ordered that no sanctions should be taken against the Turks. For me, the solution is one: now twelve nautical miles, now EOZ, before you go, unfortunately, to The Hague, because that's where the country ends, Greece ends. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And, to close, in the Minutes of the House, Mr. Moutarakis' FEK on Evros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u34	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u35	I'm closing, Mr. President. And I'm reading to you what this Cyt involves, as he says. I'm not saying it. Here's the FEK. Listen, he said it's just a place that passes tranzit and goes. And where do they go when they leave? They go to mainland Greece. There's a colonization. It has settlements, schools, shops - the FYROM! - sports facilities, entertainment facilities, such as mosques and imams. That's not a CFD. This is a legitimate stay. This is a city with all amenities in an abandoned border county, as Evros calls it, in which people cry out, "We are hungry and you are feeding for free." I'm not saying we don't feed people. To feed the whole planet. Greece went bankrupt, Mr. Scandalidis. Greece cannot feed its children. I was spending the night under here going to the news report on a local channel and I saw homeless Greeks, Mr. Tsipras, in the cold, in the snow. So we need to look at the children of the Greeks, the Greeks, and whether we can afford to feed the whole world. We can't. First Greece, first Greeks and then everyone else. That's what we think, and that's what we're fighting for. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u36	Mr President, because I have announced the Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, if I may speak by Mrs Adamopoulou - six minutes is her time - and then I shall give the floor to you immediately.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u37	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u38	Good. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u39	Mr President, because it is a tritology - I will have a total of nine minutes, maybe ten - I will give my position.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u40	I beg your pardon, there will be no tritology in any parliamentarian, because it does not take time. However, there will be a small tolerance. So let Mr. Tsipras speak after you give your position, and then I will give you the floor. Here, Mr President, you have the floor. Will you speak from the Step or from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u41	I shall speak from my position, Mr President, hope not more than ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u42	Good. I put the normal time and you talk less.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u43	Mr President, I would like to make one speech because since yesterday the whole country has been on ice, Attica is mainly on ice. Great wounds of bad weather in Attica. The most famous "final" state has been buried in the snow and the state machine has paralyzed. Thousands of households are powerless. The media speaks of over two hundred and fifty thousand households. I can't have a full picture, but the impression is that almost half of Attica was found from the first hours of bad weather, from the dawn of Tuesday, without electricity and many households without electricity, without water and without heating. What is the picture we are giving here - with the responsibility, obviously, of the government - yesterday and today and in the well-known procedures, of course, imposed by the pandemic? And that is a crucial issue for us. That is why I have also asked the President of Parliament for a meeting and he will accept me in about half an hour. So the feeling here with two or more Members from each party - these are the new circumstances of the emergency measures - is that Parliament's only concern, which the government has is to complete a process obviously outside and beyond the openness of publicity, because the whole country and the vast majority of the households - and rightly so - are dealing with how to overcome this bad weather - as I said, many households have no light, have no heating and have no water - do not have any chance to vote for the increases in the wages of the ERT administration and the new gift to the owners of private television stations. And, of course, I now feel that the last citizen in this country has fully understood Mr Mitsotakis' plan of governance. There is no ‘final’ state. There is "final" propaganda, a powerful "final" propaganda mechanism. One was the gifts of the millions of the famous Petsa list, where you decided, according to your will, to give advertising to the media without any criteria being objective. Now the presents come to the TV station owners. No one has said that there should be no aid to businesses, like all companies. And this is the company, the media company. But what are you doing here? While the government of SYRIZA has come to put a class for the first time in the country's broadcasting landscape since the early 1990s and said that public frequency is a public good and whoever owns it has to pay a price, you come in the pretext of pandemic and say, "Don't pay a price." I mean it. When a government comes and makes them pay from 30 million, and you come and give them twenty, obviously, and some of you will be savage from morning to night. Obviously, people themselves, without shame, two years ago, when the highway closed for 15 minutes, said that it was a shame and incompetence of the state and now that it closes more than twenty-four hours ago, they say it was an intelligent movement of the "final" state. That's the reality! However, I shall return to the issue of bad weather. This is where things have never happened before. As long as I keep track of political things, every year all the governments that had snows, which were unfavorable weather conditions, were concerned: no roads being closed down to central, no people being excluded from home helpless and, above all, no offense of the central national road and the country paralyzed in two. That was the concern of the governments. And what are you doing? Before the first snow begins, you are blocking the national road by decision of the Minister of Civil Protection. You guys are nice. We really didn't think about doing that, too. As many years as no other government had thought of this, neither the governments of the New Democracy nor the PASOK governments nor we, the SYRIZA government thought of this. What kind of intelligent arrest was it to close it on your own? And no harm to a cat! And, of course, you might have done that in order not to apply a law that you yourself voted on. Because in a communication mode in February 2020 you voted for a law whereby in the event of a disruption of traffic on any section of the national road network as a result of adverse weather phenomena, there was the possibility - since the finding of the investigation committee results in acts or omissions of operators or in the maintenance of parts of the main national network - that an administrative fine be imposed from 5,000 to 1,000 000. You guys are nice! So you came by decision of the Minister for Civil Protection, so that the law that you voted for the concessionaire does not apply. In addition, the concessionaire will now also have the possibility of claiming compensation for for foregone gains if he wants, if he reaches this point, the last, the grief. But why wouldn't he? I can't rule it out. In any case, what is the big picture? The big picture is that you are blocking the highway yourself and that you are being savage by journalists themselves at the same television stations that two years ago broke the microphones when the highway was closed for a quarter and now they say, "What intelligent inspiration our fellow citizens will not be excluded." And at the same time all this is happening, at the same time that over two hundred and fifty thousand households are free of power, without heating and without water in Attica, your district chief, Mr. Patulis, appears to be enthusiastic in the snowy Constitution to take pictures. Imagine that the Durus would have done what would have happened in this country. And, of course, the happy Prime Minister was drinking his coffee at "Da Capo", when thousands of households were without heating and, unfortunately, three of our fellow citizens died. And, if I'm not mistaken, two of them died because of the power cut. They were people, our fellow citizens with diseases that needed oxygen, they needed electricity for their lives, they were excluded and they couldn't reach the rescue crews, in any case, at their homes and they lost their lives. And what did Mr. Mitsotakis say yesterday, having had a happy morning, his coffee in the morning when the country was on the ice? He recommended that we stay home and not make unnecessary moves. Listen! Stay home, don't make unnecessary moves and be patient! Awkward movements when the country - Attica at least - is in lockdown? What useless moves? What kind of pointless moves to make when you're locked up at home anyway and to get out, you have to send SMS, when on weekends at 6:00 a.m. he has a ban, and he has a ban on daily from 9:00 a.m. and then he has a ban? What kind of pointless moves? Schools are closed. What useless moves to make? And, of course, he recommended patience. What patience and patience to do without heating, water and having the ability and being excluded from home? And now I come to the cause of this. The reason for this is that, for a year and a half now, as long as you govern, all you do is communication and this notoriously perfect state is a state of savage, which runs 'golden boys' paid for gold, but underneath it is dissolved. What have you done to the DEDEN? The DEDEN is subordinated. You've left him undersecret. You have not hired technicians and workshops where there are retirement departures so that today these workshops can restore the damage. Collaborations you did not hire, technicians did not hire, but you made sure you brought the "golden boys" and started the privatisation process. And to tell you exactly what you've done. While the highest general manager remuneration, until you take over the DEDDIE, was 4.650 per month - high salary, high salary - you came and made the highest fees of the CEOs 100,000 per year plus 50% bonus and directors 70,000 per year plus 30% bonus. At the same time, you created eleven new headquarters. In other words, you have created eleven new posts for 'golden boys' of your choice, 'family'. Two new directorates-general, five new directorates-general, two posts for assistance. Managers who assist, while below there is no one. You've both upgraded two blocks to address. Have you seen this infamous picture that wants to burn down the bureaucracy in the public eye, which is a worker digging into a hole, and it's over it five directors looking? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's exactly what you've done to the DATA. You've brought eleven managers - well paid instantly - and underneath there are no crews. This is the final state of Mitsotakis government. And people of course pay for it. The great majority of our citizens, who have no power and have no peace, eat promises and eat a state! And the same thing you did to the DEDEN, Minister, you are now doing to the ERT. Two days now, while all this is happening in the country, you do not miss a chance here to pass the ham and the mushrooms this bill, triple, more than triple the fees of the administration and those with a responsibility. Indeed, those who are able to decide who will take and who will not take are the board itself, those who decide to increase their own wages. Where'd that happen before? Up to 4.650 will take the executives, the general Secretary-General's salary, that is, of course there is also the president and the CEO, especially the president, who has the pleasure of being a best friend of Mr. Mitsotakis, to be the press officer of the Chief of Officerial Response while Mr. Mitsotakis was opposition and immediately then became president of the ERT. It's never happened before. Never anywhere. In what European country, as soon as it takes a government, does the Prime Minister take the public television under his own political responsibility and appoint his man for the media president? And now it gives him the ability not to double his fees, not to triple them, but to have the fees of a senior state minister. Listen, the salary of the president of the Ice Bay will have. Why? Because he's done very well. Because he protected the Prime Minister at critical times. Because he's wiped out all the anti-population parties. Because it has imposed a censorship regime. Because pluralism has disappeared. Because he made a direcchiva and masonry in the pension room on the day the party took place in Ikaria, no scenes were displayed, and no pictures were displayed and Mr. Lignade's photographs were displayed with others. Who else are they? You tell us who else they are. That's it. And now he's coming to equilibrium his wages. That's what you're doing here today. And not only are you doing this, but I came to the House and asked Mr Mitsotakis last week to put a red line and say "good, we won't play the courgetry game, you did, you did." Obviously, what is being done today in ERT is not compared with what has been done by all governments. But when I say we put a red line and say 'Come here, now, we agree that the administration of the ERT will be elected with the consent of a large majority of the parties and that the Committee on Institutions and Transparency with a strong majority of 4/5 will select the president and administration of the ERT to make a new start', you write us to the oldest of your shoes. Why? Because you think you can, because you think you can do this. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You're wrong if you think you can. People are watching. People are judging. So you are voting today on the Golden Boys. You will shortly be voting on another bill, if I am not mistaken, on pay increases in the ADP. And there's increases in the remuneration of executives. You're always at the forefront of people. That's your job. However, the average citizen has begun to experience the inability of the state to protect him fundamentally against the difficulties it is going through. The average citizen is starting to get your ass over. From the moment on, ladies and gentlemen, you are not only ignoring what is happening in the Greek society and you are coming here, so that there is nothing in the secret - but nothing will be kept hidden - to vote for the ERT's Golden Boys and gifts to the canalarchs, even if you do not even agree to vote on the amendment that we tabled, so that, from now on, there is the possibility of a consensual election of administration so that public television is public television and pluralism, we do not see it as having any point in remaining here in the House. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We denounce you, Mr Levanière, and we also denounce you, especially Mr Mitsotakis, who orchestrates all this, and we will withdraw from the voting process. I will shortly explain to the President of Parliament that this cannot continue. The House cannot enter the ice or quarantine. In the House there will be a copy. There will be democracy and you will respect the different viewpoints.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u44	Mrs. Adamopoulou, the Minister will answer first. Minister, it is obviously not your speech, it is a short answer. Here you go.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Tsipras said what he said and left, and I have to agree with him that what is happening at the ERT has not really been done before. And they haven't been for a very simple reason before, because for the first time in many years ERT has been qualitatively upgraded, it has a new refreshed program, it has a news report which you can easily see and it has set aside logic and attitudes of the past. And that's never happened before. What happened to the ERT? We talked about it and we'll talk about it again and we'll talk about it again. We have one of today's ERTs, which we have analyzed and discussed many times the issue with the little card, which has played a story in a way that was judged by the same as appropriate and we have an ERT two - three years ago that, while all of Greece was dealing with photographs of Mr. Tsipras' holidays ten days after Matti, it never showed up, it had never happened. We had an ERT in which a central broadcaster instructed fellow participants that "the ministers will speak as long as they want to and do not dare to interrupt them". We have shows where escalating escalations took place satirically with the disasters that are coming if he wins the then opposition officer's party. We had co-government and association of trade unions in deciding what to play and what to play and how long to play. That's all we had. That was ERT at that time, a television that not only raised the pathogens that led to its condition, made them even more evident and suddenly fell into the temptation of the first time - supposedly - left to check the means. And they tried to check them out with the contest, with the infamous Institute of Florence, with the four permits, which were made six, then seven permits were made, with the pastures, with all this. It's time, though. I heard Mr. Tsipras say about the final state and the usual irony he has. Let me remind him that when the Prime Minister was sworn in January 2015, ERT was subject to him and held it. His first Minister of State was Nikos Pappas and was supervised by ERT. So the Prime Minister was in charge. He's forgotten that. So let us say that we have been criticised for why, he says, we have closed the national road, for why we are facilitating concessionaires. So let me remind you that on 22 December 2017, at the first time in government on the left - with a snow that was 15% of what fell over the last few days, was 30%, was 40%? - from 2 o'clock to midday problems begin in the thirteenth mile of Athens-Lamia national road. At 5.10 this afternoon, the problem begins to get more intense. At 6.30 in the afternoon, traffic starts and blocks cars and mileage lines. We had enclaved cars, too. And the culmination is that for some strange reason in another government on 8 January 2019- probably it should not have been the same government as Mr Tsipras - the Minister then appeared and closed the national road, the new road, from the Kalyftakis bridge to Lamia, again for prevention, after the enclave had begun. So we have this paradox. Is the government superstitious? 'Why do you do it?'. In other words, the road should be open - some have heard people's personal experiences - locked up cars, people staying in, so that the same people who are saying today 'why did you close the road' would be said to be 'why did you shut him down and why did you let people freeze?' They are the same who, in any preventive measure we take, say ‘Why are you taking it?’ This is because various sectors of the economy are affected. They did it on the focus. There were top Members of Mr. Tsipras, who said: 'Why are you closing the focus? The world will be destroyed if you close the focus." And after two days, the same people came and prosecuted the government "why didn't you close the focus and there was a explosion of cases?" It's really easy to say to everything no, really. I said this yesterday, and I will say this today - and I am closing down, Mr President - that no one has ever said to the Government that we are absolutely satisfied in the management of the snow. But what we're saying is at least on the moves... By the way, Mr. Mitsotakis can walk down from the house to the Maximos Mansion. Mr. Tsipras, as far as I remember, he hadn't. There was something cubes in Herod Attica that blocked the traffic. So we said to limit unnecessary movements. Of course! Despite the measures in force to limit the pandemic, there are possible movements. These should be limited. The world had to be at home yesterday, especially yesterday. And that bothers him? Should elderly people be on ice outside? That is why the vaccinations in Attica were postponed yesterday. That is why the government has shown a foretaste which - if anything - has not happened in most years. Not to remind the story of July 23, 2018, when the government's foresight was at 12 o'clock to hold a meeting of television workshops, saying what time the planes would fly while the fire had turned out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u46	Minister, but please close.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u47	Indeed, it is a completely different model of perception and administration of a crisis and we are serving it. We'll make the corrections wherever it takes. We see the mistakes and we continue so that we can provide better services to the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u48	I would like to make a statement to this House: The Minister of Foreign Affairs, the Vice-President of the Government, and the Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religion, Work and Social Affairs, Health, Environment and Energy, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Migration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Ministers with the Prime Minister, Civil and Cultural Protection and Sport have tabled a draft law on 17-2-2021: “Organisation and functioning of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs, Council of Greek Deputies and Arrangement on issues of international development cooperation and humanitarian aid”. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. I have already received an hour's extension, in consultation with the President, because we said that the other bill would begin at 1 noon. With the speeches of the Heads, who start and don't know when it's over - all the Chiefs of Zero except - we left programming. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Don't lift your hands because you weren't in the Chamber. Listen. The reason for this is the three-time postponed in Step Ms Adamopoulou, who is the only parliamentarian who has not made use of her dentistry. Then - because I understand that you want to respond to what you have heard from Mr Tsipras - even though you have made use of the denunciation, for three minutes any of the other parliamentary representatives will have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u49	Me, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u50	My Mr. Cappato, beyond 2 o'clock at noon, we're not going anywhere. That means that at 1.30 p.m. we are stopping, because we want half an hour to vote. So, I am sorry, but the rapporteurs will not do a second, unless time permits. The mandate of the President of the Parliament is that, at 2 p.m., Mr. Stakoura's bill begins. I wish there was time, so I'll give you the floor. Here, Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. What we all see and confess is that the media in Greece have been part of the triangle of oligarchal sin "workers - bankers - midiarchs". Public service broadcasting can be controlled by the respective government, which is always in good cooperation with this triangle. In the years of the memoranda, the contractors went bankrupt, and the banks went bankrupt. As was normal, channels and radio stations and newspapers were colluded, as the only source of media revenue was the oblivious advertising of bankrupt banks and various basic state-owned and, in practice, independent agencies, such as the PPP. So these centres are fully controllable by the media and indeed by money that the troika itself ensures. It is true that whoever honoured the notorious "OTI" in the referendum was automatically demonized by the bankrupt media because they pay their bills to bankrupt bankers, so that we have raised the lie and the distortion of reality in a high art, in a high scorching. With the aim of making everyone's right to access the truth and freedom of expression inviolable, and in order to transform SMEs from propaganda mechanisms into channels of communication, information that is objective, impartial and creative, as a PART25 in our programme, we provide for the establishment of the Interparliamentary Council of Bankers and Elected Citizens of the Media, which will have the following tasks: Firstly, they will reassess the criteria for obtaining television licence, with scrutiny on the basis of quality criteria, secondly, the socialisation of ERT, which should be governed by a board of directors, elected by these Boards of Electees and Deputy Citizens and accountable exclusively to this council, without the slightest intervention of the Government, and thirdly, the conversion of the national audiovisual archive to an independent public body under the supervision of the IPPC with scientific staff, which will ensure that this archive is used and maintained. In the light of this proposal we are doing, therefore, the amendment tabled by SYRIZA to the so-called transparent and consensual staffing of the ERT administration - which proposes that Parliament's Committee on Institutions and Transparency should be appointed by a majority of 4/5 we consider to be a pretext amendment. It is a terrible impression that it proposes this very majority when in the constitutional review that took place last year, in the final analysis of the relevant body for supervising and controlling the media, which is the ERR, SYRIZA voted in favour of the revision, and in particular in relation to the majority required and voted in favour of falling to 3/5, in the same line as the New Democracy. So we see that the ERT from the individual government is turning into a benevolent government. And SYRIZA considers its ERT a privileged field. He bets right on the automations of progressive citizens. But people remember very well that SYRIZA just turned ERT into a PPE party. At the same time, due to the line notes in the ERT pension room, which was released on social media a few days ago, we consider that SYRIZA is trying to wrinkle the momentum of the news. That is why his amendment is a pretext. It could be that this amendment could be passed a year and a half ago which was government by means of a legislation. That is why we reject the amendment and consider that the only real solution for an unbundled and unbiased ERT is its socialisation, so that it can acquire a genuine public character and function unreservedly by these councils. I would like to refer to the amendment that we have tabled in the light of precisely the adverse weather conditions in our country. We are tabling an amendment on the permanent inclusion of distributors in the heavy and unhealthy professions, drivers, fast-track distributors and couriers. It is a very high-risk profession. We know that in our country, the roads suffer from malicious work, they are poorly maintained. It is a profession particularly prone to road accidents, accidents at work which are not even compensated by the employer, they do not even have that guarantee. It is especially the stress and stress that these professions face. Of course, we denounce the fact that a video distributor was filmed yesterday, in these unfavorable circumstances, going to order. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] We therefore call on the government not only to make gifts and gifts to private individuals, to give the manager of the Athens-Lamia National Road a million euros, by taking the political responsibility for the decision to close down the national road and to give the ombudsman a handful of gifts and gifts, but finally to get her social faces out of a profession which is shattered and endangering the health, life and physical integrity of these citizens, these workers. We therefore call on you to vote in favour of our amendment. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u52	Good morning, too. Mr Bukkokouros has the floor for two minutes - as Mr Kaklamanis said - and then Mr Scandalidis is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. The Honourable Chief of Officerial Response, of course, on the occasion of the draft law on media regulation, also incorporated his criticism of the footprint of bad weather in our country. It is a common phenomenon, ladies and gentlemen, opposition after a theory, after intense weather and problems that normally create such weather phenomena, to have an opposition, but usually sterile and disastrous. Did the last bad weather cause problems? Of course. But, bailing against the government, when you recently left the country's government and have no work in this area, criticism is very persuasive. In other words, the Civic Antipolitics today would be convinced if they told us what state he inherited the PPC - DEDDIE Agency and the others in July 2019, at what value he took over this organization and at what value he delivered it. Absolutely disrespected. Even 1/4 of the stock exchange value was PPC. It was when PPC had a shortage of materials in columns, meters, electrical equipment. And, of course, we are not told by today's Semantic Opposition - since the debate is taking place today in order to subordinate the networks - to what extent this issue of subordination of cables has gone ahead for four and a half years. Is that a matter? Of course it is a matter of subjugating the network and all the networks. It is, of course, a development project, because it limits the damage, because it detects them more easily, because it leaves them with a less negative footprint on the economy. Of course it's a work of aesthetics. Of course, it is a technological project that underpins the networks. But when you've done absolutely nothing, you can't move your finger. Of course we see the need, Mr President, for modernisation and the legislative framework. Of course the TECs and all the agencies and all the companies need greater coordination to dig up at the same time - what the citizen says - so that we do not have the mistreat on the streets. Of course, the restoration must be complete. Of course, the framework for consultation between OTAs and forests and other co-responsible agencies must be re-examined and changed. However, when in the question of modernising PPC - DEDDIE, in the area of networks, in the matter of subjugation you have no work to show, let the criticism be more reasonable, let the criticism be more substantiated, let the criticism be more just. The government is facing the problems. All TEDO workshops are on the road for forty-eight hours, with very difficult weather conditions. Damages and power supply are restored, and in any case these issues are not for easy opposition. These issues, Mr President, require planning, planning and implementation in order to modernise them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, too. Mr Scandalides, as Parliamentary spokesman for the Change Movement, has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, it is amazing what we have been through at these moments. I think we're at an irrational theater. We have heard Mr Tsipras and the Minister's reply. They both describe two seasons. Mr. Tsipras in the New Democracy era, today, Mr. Lebanon in the time of Mr. Tsipras. Two seasons so similar, so identical as to see Eye against the snow, as if we were seeing SYRIZA's ERT against the ERT of the New Democracy. The same type of governance, two different conflicting parties on the same policy, the same rape of democracy, the same inability to address the country's problems. I do not think, Mr President, that responsible is the attitude of the Responsibility Officer who has left because the previous life on this matter does not justify it. However, I have to say that the government is not talking about the past, because it was either showing or saying that it was ready and there was neither planning nor plan nor capacity to react to difficulties. For two days, Minister, Civil Protection watched the problems without actually interfering. They shut down the highway and thought they did their duty. There have been thousands of households without electricity, some areas even for thirty - six hours and many thousands of waterless houses for twelve hours. This is called failure for something you have been waiting for and not prepared, and no media, no communication storm can justify it. The final state was stripped of it - and I told you yesterday, perhaps with more harsh words - because it governs in a way that does not fit either in the era or in the needs of that country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Synthrakis of the Communist Party of Greece has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. We have lived all these days an incredible hypocrisy from all the urban parties, first of all from the government, SYRIZA, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution, which so far at least we do not know exactly what they are voting on. This is a bill which incorporates a European directive that is extremely reactive, dangerous to people's freedoms, which is glossing every progressive, radical thought and expression. And so far, we do not know - the bill's over - what exactly they are voting on. They are ostriching, except for the government that brings the bill, of course. Despite Mr Levanios' attempt to convince us that Article 8 does not address artists, the reality of the application of 'terror' and in art does not take any completely misinterpretation. In this article and in Article 32 of the bill, the European 'terror' is included and enriched, where, on the basis of these articles, any material is banned from climbing the internet by a creator, artist, or even by any user, because it involves inciting violence, hatred and public invitation to terrorist crime. That is why no one takes a position, only 'we will see at the end, we reserve it'. They were all! And Mr Tsipras who came here - indeed a theater of irrationalism - for 15 minutes, twenty minutes said absolutely nothing about 'terror' and its application to art. He said nothing about the European directive, Article 8, Article 32. That's why SYRIZA left, so they made it with light jumps and threw the ball in the stands. That's what they did. Two things we held back from Mr. Tsipras' position. What's the first? What he has brought back - he keeps doing it all the time today - the basic core of the government's propaganda policy, that he must - he says - support all businesses. Well, they're not all the same! Are the companies of the canalarchs, the Mindarchs with the focus, with the shopkeepers, with the neighborhood grocery store, and do they have to get another EUR 3.5 million apart from all the other tens of million euros they took? So here's how New Democracy and SYRIZA converge at the core core - that is, what? - to strengthen the major business groups, the mediators.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u58	And that's it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u59	And the second, Mr President, is this in Article 8, that SYRIZA left for that very reason, because he did not want to sit here and take a stand, while this European directive in the European Union has voted and supported it. He has supported the "terror" and the Criminal Code to date. So let the people draw their own conclusions. Overthrow these policies from any urban party! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, too. And now we're going to Mr. Spankee from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u61	Mr President, won't we talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u62	You've exhausted every year. I didn't see you and you didn't notify me. I got from the previous President-in-Office the following...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u63	A three-minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u64	What do you want to talk about? I'm sorry, you're a special speaker. There's no time for special speakers right now, for no one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u65	As a parliamentary representative, can I not speak for three minutes?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u66	No, you're not a parliamentary representative. It's Mr. Mylonakis. If Mr. Mylonakis comes... At the moment I cannot violate the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u67	Mr Mylonakis is in committee, so I ask you for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u68	Here, you have the floor for two minutes. I'm sorry, Mr. Spankee, but my colleague will be speaking for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much. Like an epilogue in this bill, I won't abuse time. I want, Minister, in closing this sitting and before we go to the vote, to say once again, addressing the Greek women and the Greeks, that we are really very happy that we have managed yesterday to deactivate the bomb you have deliberately or not - that is another issue - on the subject of the national minority.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u70	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u71	No, I said no, I don't account for you feasibility, just the result would be the same. You know, someone may not have intentions, but it can cause very great damage. It doesn't matter, the result counts. So we avoided and deactivated this bomb as a Greek Solution, and we feel very great joy and pride about it. I want to say some things now, two minutes to you. Look at the issue of pluralism on the channels seriously. The ERR isn't enough, Minister, why? The PSE is coming and what does it say, Mr President, by law? That parties must be represented on the channels on the basis of at least the percentage they have taken and the others. Yes, sir. And then they appeal after the channels at the S.T.E. And the S.T.E. cancels the PSE. So you must legislate by law that television stations are obliged to host the representatives of our country's country of origin in the Greek Parliament. So we're representing some people here. They're on their way to S.H.E.L.D. And the S.T.E. dismisses the decision of the PSE. It's not working like that! We also want to point out that it is too steadfast in times very difficult for the world, for the citizens, Greeks and Greeks, indeed of an economic "Armagedon" to make such gifts to large-scale channel owners. It is, at least, challenging - I will not say oxymotage - to legislate in favour of them for the irrational gains to ERT and the RES. And I will close by saying what we have said yesterday - and our President said yesterday - we have said so in our report the basic, Mr Levanne, because you represent another generation of politicians and you are another generation of people, especially you in the Ministry. We don't tell you in opposition, i.e. just to fight, but, indeed, leave your print to the sensitive media space and make a difference to you to be equitable! It's not democratic. And I'm sure - because you're a reasonable man and you proved it yesterday - that you understand that it chokes us right and what's happening isn't democratic. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time you have given me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u72	Good. Mr. Kegeroglu has been notified. Not to be unfair, to give Mr. Kegeroglu two minutes. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for just two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. Very soon I would like to support the amendments we have tabled as a Change Movement. It concerns radio stations, a problem that exists at this stage. Immediately I.D.'d recognize it, but I'd like his clear position. Is there a problem or isn't there? And if there's a problem, why transfer it after two years when the license is to be granted? I think the state should take the measures now. One is a technical issue for the areas where we have geomorphological peculiarities and it is necessary to make it easier for stations to emit throughout the county for which they have been licensed or legalised to do so - in the sense that they are legally operating - and the other case concerns stations which, for various reasons, have not been authorised and a second re-examination must be taken, removing any bureaucratic obstacles. We therefore want, and I would ask the Minister, to accept them or to place them if the problem exists and not after two years. That's not right. In conclusion, I would like to say that in this bill, as we have said, most of the articles in the directive incorporating them are adopted, but there are some which are not properly implemented and which have formulas that raise issues and we will not vote on them. And, of course, with regard to the articles that are outside the directive, most of them are not voted on because they concern matters which need to be regulated in a different way within the pandemic and the great pressure that our society feels, and, of course, because they are also opposed to Article 1 of the bill. Article 1 of the bill reads: 'The exclusive purpose of this bill is to incorporate this directive.' Therefore, or Article 1 or other matters are not covered by the Directive. So this is not the case, and therefore our position is clear with concrete proposals that we have put forward. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr Kegeroglu. And to be fair, I'll give Mr. Cappato two minutes. And then the Minister will close after his speech, I mean after the three colleagues have gone before him. Last the Minister will speak. Here, Mr. Cappato, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. I think Mr. Tsipras considers that the Greek people have no memory and I would like to remind him that for five years, for four and a half years, he has brought PPC to the limits of bankruptcy. I think that within a year and a half, this cannot be forgotten by the Greek people. PPC did not close, however, PPC did not upload the tariffs to the consumer, they were barely stable while the tariffs were up to the suppliers to PPC. So I think both PPC and TENMU grew up during the period of a year and a half of the country's governance time. All the rest - if you want - is to create pictures easy to the world. Mr President, yesterday's debate on the bill was very interesting but also revealing. Most of the positions of the Opposition instead of focusing on the bill itself, ended up commenting on things that have little to do with its content. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will be doing two minutes, Mr President, and I will not go over it in two minutes. We heard from the Commentary on Snow Reports, criticism of the decision to close the national road, the same national road that the SYRIZA government kept open in 2017, resulting in drivers being trapped in their cars within the snow for eight hours. We have heard from the Opposition derogating commentary on polling and televising, which, because they do not justify the SYRIZA account of ERT, are denounced as unreliable. We have heard from nowhere after four and a half years of governance SYRIZA proposals for joint acceptance at the ERT, which are made retrospectively, since it is known that the administration of ERT and in general the administrations of agencies will be covered by open competitions. We have heard about an unsubstantiated note to the ERT, a note that could print and display anyone who appeared as the "liftstone" for ERT assessment as a whole. We heard Opposition on the one hand accusing us of indifference to workers and jobs in the media and, on the other, of condemning us for the support measures of enterprises to which workers themselves are employed, when all sectors of the economy have been strengthened respectively. Even criticism of the alleged attempt to suffocate and censorship of artistic creation, we have heard. Of course, the directive that we incorporate with the bill was revised on SYRIZA days in 2018. For some strange reason, no protest had been directed to the European institutions by the then government on the content of the directive, which it also voted on in the European Parliament. I believe, Mr President, that we are responding to this bill, that we are worthy of the expectations of Greek citizens by adapting our legislation to developments, to the needs of our times. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. Mr Spankis has the floor now. Mr Spankis, because there is no time at all, please very much, but also your next colleagues, to put the clock next to you, since you are not listening to the end of your speaking time bell. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA is at a political deadlock, something that his political movements show, culminating in today's departure from the debate and the vote of a bill on the transposition of a directive. After all, we have all seen in the Greek Parliament that it has been trying to create an artificial climate for days. Why, though, is that so? Because SYRIZA is elsewhere, it is far from the real needs of Greek society. But, ladies and gentlemen, let me talk about today's bill. The way we communicate, watching movies and television programs has changed. Means have changed. It is therefore absolutely necessary and self-evident that legislation should be adapted accordingly to the new data, both market, technology and users and, of course, to the protection of consumers. The bill we are debating today is precisely in that direction. In Part I, we have the incorporation of the European Audiovisual Media Services Directive, the main purpose of which is to adapt the institutional framework to the new data, in the way we now consume audiovisual content. The important thing, however, is that this new institutional framework includes all forms of promotion and reproduction, from conventional television to YouTube and all other sharing platforms from Netflix to social media. It is very important and all the wings of Parliament, even the most, should be allowed to express themselves, Eurosceptics, in Europe's efforts for a common strategy, for a common legislative framework on all these issues, because Europe is our family and, on the one hand, technological developments have this basic feature: we are now sharing more, we have more in the way we live, we are working, we are consuming, regardless of the way we live. So it makes sense to share the same concerns. This directive has many other positive and important provisions, many of which have so far been absent from our legislative framework. In particular, it includes arrangements to protect minors from harmful content and advertising, not only on television, but also on sharing platforms. It shall also include arrangements leading to increased accessibility for disabled persons through an obligation on the part of the provider to submit an annual report on the actions they plan and implement in this direction. And, of course, the promotion and support of European and Greek audiovisual production through the provision that the 'on demand' services contain at least 30% European content, as well as the obligation of the financial contribution for our country, either through direct financing of private series films either through the purchase of rights or through the financing of a national fund for that purpose. So we see, ladies and gentlemen, that Community law is indeed establishing a common framework for the Member States, but at the same time it protects and supports both European interests in relation to the world market and national interests. Apart from incorporating this directive, today's bill also contains arrangements for the functioning of the media in our country, for the television market, satellite stations and advertising, sectors that have also been affected by the health crisis. I should like to make a brief reference to these. We are carrying the obligation to register in the National Broadcasting Council all media service providers established in the country. Anachronistic and non-criminal law-enforcement of contracts concluded by other, shareholders, managers, managers and others is hereby abolished. We also have the provisions for radio stations, which are, of course, transitional until the landscape is finally cleared up with the licenses for radio stations, which lasts for many years. We have rules for regional television channels in place. It also founded the incompatibility of the parallel participation in a radio company, a free-take radio station and a advertising company. A final date is also set for the licensing of regional and thematic television channels on 31 December 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill we also provide the appropriate tools to make state television a modern television provider. Because SYRIZA may have become a government with the flag of ERT, but no one will forget what ERT lived for days SYRIZA and much more what the viewers have seen for days SYRIZA. Because there were many nostalgic reports, I'd say, in the notorious Pappa law, what should we first want? The Institute of Florence, the ‘big brother’ process with the candidates who have been locked in rooms, pastures? So are you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, talking about manipulation of the information you celebrated about the closure of the MEGA? Are you talking about ERT, which on your day had almost zero viewing? So the New Democracy Government has a clear direction, and this is modernisation and transparency in all areas, which we are doing today. The work of the current government is already visible. State television has improved, has accepted viewers, has entered another era, in today's era. We have also seen this with Netflix, which is being watched by too many young people. With today's bill we are reforming, modernising the media area and bringing transparency, pluralism, protection, substance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u78	Thank you to Mr Spankis and to the absolute consistency in time. The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mrs. Evangelia Lykoulis, now has the floor. Mrs. Liikali, you too have the watch to see the time. Here, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we have a illustrated comparison of the old and new, a new minister in a new subject - to be a good-for-notch, Minister! - in new times, with new conditions, with new digital landscapes, with information platforms and entertainment, with new things, anyway. The old and the new, of course, are in a controversy, because, yes, we have a new regulatory framework that is necessary, but together we have old things that we carry from the recent and the distant past and old attitudes. We incorporate provisions that are necessary for the new regulatory framework. At the same time, we impose our own rules on the landscape of domestic information and audiovisual media. But, really, have we seen it again as an opportunity to open a small or large window, showing once again that the political will is the two faces of Janus? I listened to you yesterday with great interest, Minister, to speak of this notorious ERT rug, which was indeed a big subject, saying that the 'fault' or 'provocater' was a 'provocator'. And I found it very clever what you said with an argument and saying, of course, that the stupidity was defeated, as he finally played in the news reports and the news that he was imputed to the government that he wanted to hide etc. On the other hand, we hear many crowns and many wishes that things should be different. The foolishness has been defeated, but has the mentality been defeated? That is the big question. I would like to explain that we are discussing today a European directive and regulations which have a positive content in a very large part of it, such as regulations which come directly from the European Union concerning minors, protection against terrorist offences through audiovisual instruments, and which include provisions on social content for the accessibility of people with disabilities. I am also making the point on the improvement here. The fact that we want subtitles to take place in real time and on live emissions is crucial and important and we insist on the Change Movement. So we incorporate social, psychological and moral provisions. It's all right up here. So there, where you were doing it well, here, where, according to your favorite tactics, you are also putting the "picture". So you add a "heavy" which is the hardest part of the case. Your legislative conception shows once again or whatever makes us suspicious, to be more elegant, that we have "the same Pantelaki, the same Pantelaki". Of course, while we know that the system has been hit unrelentingly, that journalists are unemployed on the street and that we have many problems in a time of crisis in the media space, you come with some provisions to create an even more gloomy landscape, giving the possibility of numerically having fewer journalists in the media than we have now. So you do not defend freelance and it is not just by petting the ears of canalarchs or other media. After all, we're we wet, we're not afraid of rain. And we'll see you out of your teeth, Minister. There should be a better perspective here and you should listen to the collective bodies of journalists, such as the Pan-Hellenic Federation of Author Associations and local associations, not to mention the regional media and about what is going on there. I keep this to the end, because I am in a district of the regional media and I know what is happening to us. While we understand that the juncture is difficult and things have their meaning and should be given conveniences, we cannot discuss it, it is a challenge to discuss deletion of the annual lease called on to pay the channels. Do you know why this is a challenge? Let me tell you very well and not opposition. At the difficult juncture you are talking about business, while other businesses have already put on a padlock, and you are not there to tell them “I delete what you owe,” but that “I make it easier for you and I give it to you”, I am stalling the obligation. But you never say 'delete'. So here, why do you say it? Are you saying this in the context of the shadow that is generally hovering about the conciliation on the payment of this single lease further, because there is a precedent with the Pecha list, which Mr. and you are still carrying? We are also going to the other issue concerning ERT and for which there has been so much talk. I heard the Chief of Officer County a moment ago. Look, no one denies that here things need to get together in a nice way and that people who work and that we have new economic conditions, etc. must be exalted. But the role of public television and radio is a special role, which you cannot treat as if you do not know what the heat is. We want a ERT in public or state. Yesterday I listened with great interest to Kostas Scandalidis, our parliamentary representative, who made the epic of the debate on this bill. And I honestly say it, not because he's my friend, but because he's a man who's committed to the conscience of politics. So he said, "Will you leave ERT in the shadow of submission?" Will it still be a shadow theater? Will it still be the ERT that washes out the laundry of each party that comes to put its state there, but also its control? We're gonna let that happen? Minister, look, the world is suspicious. We are no longer at a time when we are all unconscious, innocent and can talk about self-evident things anymore. You should also put the finger on the type of sunshine. You're young and you're hopeless and you want to put your seal on. Don't you dare! Scandalidis said yesterday: "Do you have the guts to do this, that is to say bring another era, as the Change Movement and the PASOK mentioned, reforming YENED - the Lofa and Difference - and taking the eagle out of the eagle that was the first thing you saw from a young child in kindergarten? Can you do something like that by pulling out ERT from the outside and calling the opposition parties such as the Change Movement, which unfortunately have few participations in this state-government ERT? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] If, in fact, there is this possibility - and I am ending, Mr President - I am sure you want to link your name to a great change and to a real reform policy in this area too. You said yesterday that stupidity was defeated. I'm the one withholding. But we must, above all, lose the mentality. You have a long and hard road. Well, glorious glorious field! Come on! We're waiting for you! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali, too. We shall conclude the debate with Mr Georgios Kamin, Member of the Change Movement. Can you hear us? Unfortunately, we don't see you and we don't hear you. Mr Kamine, unfortunately, if within the next half minute we are waiting for you, you cannot correct the sound to speak, I am sorry, but you will not be able to speak, because I have to give the Minister the floor to close. Unfortunately, Mr Kamine, I'm very sorry, you can't connect and I can't wait any longer. I shall therefore give the floor to Minister Liviani to close the meeting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. We now come to the end of a two-day practical debate on this bill. Before entering, I shall refer to two points raised in this debate, in particular by Mr Kegeroglou. I said yesterday to the House that it has tabled two amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u82	We have an amendment, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u83	One is basically asking for a change in the licensing of a radio station, which is the responsibility of the National Broadcasting Council, and it is a little steep when we are talking about the Council's independence to come to legislation and change the legislative framework. We'll keep an eye on this. We will ask, if there are any conditions, for the matter to be re-examined by the broadcasting board and we will be in contact, if necessary. On the second issue of broadcasting in areas with special morphological features such as Crete, this is the responsibility of the National Committee for Telecommunications and Posts. I would say that it is a central request for the next few weeks to resolve the technical problem of radio frequencies, so that we can now discuss the licensing of radio stations. There must be a serious and systematic work by the National Committee on Telecommunications and Posts. It is a deep technical issue and must be resolved as soon as possible in order to close a loose end. We are now closing for twenty-five years and this issue needs to be resolved. Now, as far as the directive is concerned, I think we have debated too many issues that were at the top of the debate and we have exhausted them. What I would like to say is that the bill essentially incorporates in its first part a European directive which regulates the modern field of audiovisual media. In recent years, a lot of things have changed. The - within introductory - 'invasion' of the Internet in the field of information and entertainment is the biggest change that has taken place and also the recreational content that we consume and the information. The directive therefore comes to give a solution and an adjustment to the existing situation. For the first time since the directive rules are introduced in the way that the well-known entertainment and informative video media platforms, such as "YouTube" or "Tik tok" show their content and for which the Greek law will be the National Broadcasting Council, which, incidentally, has no possibility of imposing any criminal sanctions. Because, in fact, Mr Velopoulos also said so, the Criminal Code obviously has nothing to do with the National Broadcasting Council. What is involved is imposing administrative fines. I would also like to make a comment on the part of the national minority because we discussed it yesterday. It is the 'ethnic minority' in English and how it is translated correctly. I think that if a Greek channel were to say some hybrid slogan about the Basques, for example, or national minorities present in other states, it is a question of whether it should be protected. In any case, in relation to the second part, it is important to lay rules on the advertising that children have as a common goal. Specific measures are taken by content providers to protect children from anything that harms them morally, mentally or physically. At this point I would like to say that especially younger children, with a tablet or a mobile phone have direct access to 'YouTube', for example. They usually see children's programs, children's series, movies that have been downloaded from TV to these platforms. And they do that not only when they're at home but even when they're in the car or on the road or when they're in friends' homes. YouTube, in essence or video-sharing platforms have largely replaced TV, as far as the consumption of entertainment content is concerned. That is why it is very important that there should also be an explicit ban - which this directive brings to it - on the prevention of the exploitation of any personal data of children. And since the debate also took place on the notorious Article 6, I would like to take this opportunity to ask for the subtitle to be completed in the article, because in the legislative version submitted yesterday it has to be supplemented in relation to Article 6 of the 2018 directive that we incorporate. There is a protection in anything that can carry content for hatred, racial discrimination, social origin, disability, sexual orientation. I repeat once again that this is about providers and not artists. Indeed, because many upload videos on 'YouTube' - and I mention it as a platform - I would like to tell them that before they upload the video, a sheet usually comes out on terms of use, which we never read. We have been pressing a 'agreement', which is exactly what it has been saying for many years. I would also like to refer to Article 17, which for the first time has the 'taxation' - within importing platforms - of content platforms on demand, such as Netflix. 1.5% is transferred and will be attributed to the EMEA, which is the most out-of-revolutionary instrument for supporting audiovisual production. I heard the reflection and a portion of the artistic world that says "Why don't you take it to the Greek Film Center?" Soon the Ministry of Culture, as there is now the Deputy Minister of Contemporary Culture, Mr. Dr. And the money that this government has given the Greek Film Center is more than what the previous government gave. In the last year, 2020, the grant was EUR 6 million from the state budget, of which it did not actually work for alpha, beta, gamma - and that is where a pathogen of the system is found - to absorb everything. In other words, in the last year its cash reserves increased, imagine, by 3 million euros. He was, in other words, taking more money than he could consume. So what we need to see - and the Ministry of Culture will do it - is how we can make it easier for artistic production to absorb faster money, to make better use of it and to develop further. It is very positive that Greek cinema once again is in the lobby of the Oscar Foreign Language Film Awards. As far as the second part is concerned, we have discussed detailed parts relating to pan-Hellenic channels. I would like to focus on three innovations, which are very important in particular to support not the major channels but the smaller ones, the regional channels for radio, the regional press, the pan-Hellenic press or radios. The recent decision by the Council of State was considered the issue of the 2% contribution imposed by the Katrugalo Law to the EDOECD, the Journalists' Insurance Assistance Fund. So he said that this contribution is now lawful. So there were two things there. Firstly, a large part of these companies did not pay the levy for the years 2007-2020, because they were hoping for a positive development for them. On the other hand, there were companies that actually paid it in times of financial difficulty. So we say that the infamous press aid programme will be allocated specifically for these years to these businesses - I repeat, we are talking about regional channels, radios, press magazines, daily press, regional traffic or universal traffic - to cover 2% of the fund. What do we gain in this way? Firstly, we are helping businesses with an objective criterion, which is the annual turnover on which 2% is calculated, to pay the contribution to the EDPS, effectively saving a significant amount of money. Secondly, the fund of journalists is being strengthened in immediate money and, thirdly, for the first time in this area - the one who paid and was consistent with his obligations will receive the sum that he gave in cash to make use of it as he judges and be available. We're talking again about the 2% amount. The second major change takes place on regional channels. For two years, that is, 2021-2022, we suspend the 5% levy on advertising which they paid to the tax office. We help them in this way to overcome the pandemic crisis. Advertising expenditure, by the way, according to information I have in mind, has been reduced in the last year around 60%. So the pandemic also hit the media. Thirdly, we explicitly exempt regional channels from the 1.5% contribution which was, moreover, a very small amount from Law 3905 to the National Cinema Centre. At the same time, any debt that is irresponsible to the EDPS can regulate it in seventy-two instalments in order to get into a series and adjust their payments better. Secondly, there was a talk about the personnel of the pan-Hellenic stations. Let's make it clear that the number of four hundred remains. What is actually changing is that a 15% rate, which is less than the number that came out of consultation, can only be employed in related companies. This is not the first time that this has happened and that is the reality of television. There are subsidiaries in the channels which undertake the production of material and series and emissions. Thirdly, we are coming for the first time and say that the great loose end will be closed in a very short time. On 31 December 2022, the authorization of regional stations will be completed and on 30 June 2023 the licensing of radio stations will be completed. In this context, we will also resolve the technical question, because it does exist. Mr. Himaras put it, too, if I'm not mistaken. There are some distortions. The Serres Prefecture, for example, emits in the bouquet of Eastern Macedonia - Thrace, although administratively owned by central Macedonia. Also tracks, for example, of the Fthiotida Prefecture, which is above Mount Othrys, better capture the channels of Thessaly than of Central Greece. We will look into this and with the company that has the spectrum after a competition - the channels have not been packed, they have built the DIGEA, and so they have taken the direct management of the radio spectrum - and with the National Telecommunications and Post Committee. It is now important to know who is licensed, to have the obligations, to have the rights resulting from this licence. And we are determined on this soon to table proposals with both the institutional information bodies and those who are active in this part and with the other political parties. I would like to point out that in this context, we will also see the infamous part of the - in introductory words - 'all Greek-wide channels', to see how much they need, how much they can be auctioned and how they will be licensed as well. It is important that we look at this issue, without, if you like, making the businessman a state. I would also hear as a very good idea that there should be a special, for example, channel dealing with the issues of the primary sector, whether it concerns agriculture, livestock or fisheries, which, if there were to be investment interest, would be a very good development. Fourthly, we are dealing with a matter that has been on the table for many years now, which is the question of waiving the sanctions that the National Broadcasting Council can impose. We say that four years are enough for the National Broadcasting Council to do its part more quickly and to leave the paradox to be called on to hear channels for something that happened seven, eight, nine years ago. I repeat for the fourth time that any personal or logistical needs that the National Broadcasting Council has, we are prepared to cover them and give the staff and the equipment it needs to do its work. I do not want to hear again in this Chamber that the National Council cannot do its job well. The work of the National Broadcasting Council is top, defined by the Constitution and concerned with the control of the broadcasting landscape. In this context, then, we are determined to help it with whatever it takes to make better use of it. Closed up, two things. First. We talked a lot about ERT. I'll just say two things. One for the payroll, set by the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Tsipras. ERT is an organisation that is directly competitive with the private sector. It has four channels, it has regional radios, it has pan-Hellenic radios and it has needs that arise from the competitive environment. Therefore, if we consider that with EUR 1,100, for example, we can find a central news reporter, when all the big channels pay three times the same, four times the salary and five times the salary in this piece, we can look at it. We want a commercial director who will bring advertising to the channel and therefore make it more profitable, will help reduce, if necessary, the reward fee. Because these two are essentially linked, the success of ERT in the advertising market will ease the public by the reward fee. We want a commercial director who, in fact, will be market-based and rewarded with a similar piece. If that is a problem, we should discuss it, you should explain to me how a competitive channel can have a payroll that is not at all competitive to attract significant executives. In conclusion, the truth is that it was unpleasant that since bad weather there were people who lost their lives. Generally, the reflexes of the state mechanism have worked significantly. There are problems with electricity. What we can do is see what went well, what went wrong, so next time we are even better prepared. And that is for one reason, because the enemy of this government is the problems of the country. We are working on it and on it we are trying to improve our performance and to be even better next time. Thank you very much for the dialogue we have had here, and I think that in the next few days we will be able to launch the dialogue on the two serious issues that we have said, both on the licensing of regional stations and on the licensing of radio stations. Evidently, political parties will also participate as institutions and interlocutors who will be invited to submit their views in full. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u84	Thank you too, Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the State Secretary to the Prime Minister responsible for Communication and Information matters is hereby concluded: ‘Integration into national law of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of fifty three articles, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Make sure you have passed all the articles, the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u85	Once you have completed the vote, ladies and gentlemen, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u86	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u87	The draft law of the Secretary-General to the Prime Minister responsible for Communications and Information: ‘Integration into national legislation of the European Parliament and of the Council of 10 March 2010 on the coordination of certain provisions laid down by law, regulation or administrative action in Member States concerning the provision of audiovisual media services, as amended by Directive (EU) 2018/1808 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 November 2018 and other provisions relating to the competence of the General Secretariat for Communication and Information’, was adopted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u88	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u89	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, we will have a short break for the necessary cleansing of the Chamber and will come back to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u90	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Only debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Mission and human resources issues of the Independent Public Income Authority". The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 11 February 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. In particular, as regards the organisation of the debate, it is proposed in addition to the rapporteurs, special speakers, parliamentary representatives and ministers and a circle of speakers who will be involved in a natural presence. Three circles of speakers will also be added to this debate by teleconferencing via the WebEx platform. In particular, the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives will be naturally involved, as will a circle comprising one speaker from each parliamentary group. Total natural presence in the Chamber of Parliament eighteen MPs, while three-cycle teleconferencing and each cycle will include up to twelve speakers with the following ratio: Five speakers from New Democracy, three speakers from SYRIZA, one speaker from the Change Movement, one speaker from the Communist Party of Greece, one speaker from the Greek Solution and one speaker from Mera25. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the parliamentary groups, by letters. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u91	The House unanimously agreed. The Minister, Mr Besiropoulos, attends today. The rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Pascalides, has the floor for 15 minutes, as you know from the beginning and the rapporteurs and the special speakers. Mr. Passalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u92	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's government, recognising the complex challenges of the new era and the importance of the potential of its human capital, proceeds with this bill in a major organisational upgrade, with the aim of optimising the working environment and services of the ADP, with the ultimate aim of consolidating the relationship of trust with taxpayers. On the basis of these principles, the current draft law introduces innovative arrangements in which formal and substantive qualifications, knowledge and experience, complexity of the position, critical thinking and ability to take decisions are taken into account in the calculation of the remuneration of ADP officials. In addition, this draft law seeks to resolve the huge issue of subsistence to NRAs, such as border and islands, as well as the high imbalance in remuneration, since the fees paid to new entrants are discouraged, so that quality executives are not attracted and there is no renewal and strengthening of the service. Thus, although the central role of the ADP in public revenue requires new and highly trained staff, many young people with a multitude of academic qualifications, at least postgraduate and many times doctorate, because these qualifications are not recognized in their wages, are often renounced until their appointment. This draft law now permanently solves the problem of wage differences in the salaries of young employees, as well as newly appointed officials who do not receive personal disparity with their duties to date, as well as older colleagues. These problems come to resolve the bill under discussion, by upgrading and exploiting workers and jobs. The guidelines of the bill are that each employee, depending on the position in which he is serving, receives a corresponding remuneration, with employees in any case continuing to receive the remuneration of the single wage on the basis of seniority and educational level, while, where appropriate, maintaining the payment of the family benefit, the border and the allowance for unhealthy work. In addition, an incentive shall be established to achieve targets as a reward for staff for their contribution to achieving the objectives of the principle. In addition, the initial ranking of staff shall ensure the remuneration payable by officials, including today's personal dispute. In more detail, this draft law consists of three chapters. Chapter I consists of twenty articles and concerns the wage bill of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Chapter B contains four articles concerning human resources of the Independent Public Revenue Authority and Chapter C contains two articles concerning authorizing provisions since the entry into force of the provisions of the draft law. The first articles of the draft law refer to officials who are subject to the provisions of the new wage, firstly in pay scales, according to the category of education - compulsory, secondary, higher and university - and to their pre-service and, secondly, in terms of jobs, according to their place of employment. In particular, the new salary is the permanent and peculiar civil servants, officials with employment for an indefinite period of time, who are serving in the ADP, as well as posted officials and advisors and associates of its command, without being subject to the Governor of ADP, the President, the members and the expert of the ADP Board of Directors. In addition, the new salary of ADI staff appoints thirteen wage scales for employees of compulsory and secondary education and nineteen steps for technical and university education, with the first two categories, compulsory and secondary, to raise a basic salary rate every three years and the other two, technical and university, every two years. However, on the basis of Article 6, which provides for a progressive development system, officials of all categories rated for three consecutive annual assessments of 95% or more receive an additional basic salary step. Moreover, there is the provision in question where the staff member is classified as inadequate, that the possibility of training or other actions improving his performance may be investigated and, in exceptional cases, that he fails to carry out three continuous annual evaluations, that his salary development may be suspended for one year. The basic import salary for compulsory education has been EUR 780, for secondary education, EUR 858, for technological education, EUR 1,037 and for university education, EUR 1,092. In addition, this draft law provides special incentives for the management of the border. The existing salary is granted for a frontier payment in specific laws of the territory. However, this allowance is not differentiated for the outermost regions of the border, so that staff seek to move it into the capitals of the border counties. APPLICATION OF THE APPLICABLE TO THE APPLICATION OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE AND THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF JUSTICE OF THE COURT OF FIRST INSTANCE OF THE EUROPEAN COMMUNITIES The most specific innovation in the new wage is the introduction of a job-based remuneration. In particular, a special remuneration shall be paid for each grade of job which is offset by the existing personal difference. The special remuneration thus incorporates and replaces the personal difference and any liability allowance. All job grades, based on the assessment of their gravity, shall be assigned to one of the thirteen grades in accordance with the specific rating system. For each grade, a specific fee amount, ranging from EUR 100 to EUR 2,200 per month, shall be allocated. A special post allowance shall be paid to the staff member subject to his participation in the annual assessment procedure. If one does not participate in it until the next assessment, he will receive only the basic earnings, the family allowance and the allowances of remote border regions and dangerous unhealthy work if they are entitled to them. It should be noted that this specific remuneration for the level of jobs is pensionable, contrary to the personal difference, thereby significantly increasing the total retirement earnings of the staff. As far as overtime is concerned, it is planned to increase working hours by overtime by up to a hundred and fifty hours per six-and-a-half hours to date. It should also be stressed that 25% of hourly pay is increased after the 20th hour for afternoon overtime work other than the five-day period. In addition, this draft law stipulates that the AIA’s collective bodies operate within normal working hours or overtime and no remuneration or remuneration is paid to their members. However, it also contains provisions which introduce exceptions to the general provisions on remuneration of collective bodies for members of the collective bodies set up, firstly, to the award of works, supplies and services contracts with ADP contracting authority and the specific defined and secondly, in the context of the implementation of projects and actions deemed to be of major importance for the achievement of the ADP's strategic and operational objectives and the better service of the citizen, technology, information and communication services, as well as for actions under the Recovery and Resilience Fund, as well as those specifically defined. In addition, the current bill also provides for the introduction of objective incentives to achieve objectives. In particular, a specific additional reward shall be introduced, which shall be linked to the achievement of the objectives of each unit. The amount of the target award shall be a percentage of the remuneration for each staff member and shall be escalated by the rate of achievement of the objectives. This is, in fact, an annual target premium, which is an additional special position fee, depending on the rate of achievement of the objectives set. In this way, workers are familiar with the objectives of the principle, participate in the achievement effort and, ultimately, they are rewarded for that participation. I would like to stress that Article 16 lays down a maximum level of remuneration which may not exceed the remuneration of the Secretary-General, without taking account of the upper amount of the service allowance abroad. In Chapter II of the draft law, provisions on issues of human resources of the ADA are introduced, in particular, issues relating to the service development of personnel in relation to the evaluation process. In particular, the provisions of L.4389/2016 are amended and supplemented in relation to the selection and evaluation process of the AACC's Heads of Administration and the Grading System of the AACC. In addition, Article 24 provides for the recruitment of forty-two persons to the ADP in relation to fixed-term private-law work in order to address the exceptional needs of staff created by the design, execution, implementation and follow-up of ADP public investment programmes and projects financed by the Recovery and Resilience Fund, with a duration of thirty-six months. The third and final part of the draft law provides for the authorised provisions of the AACC Commander for the determination of the procedure and the conditions for the promotion of wage developments for officials, as well as for the determination of issues relating to the granting of increased allowances in border areas, the assessment, overtime employment and the compensation of collective bodies. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my speech, I would like to stress that the current government is fully aware of the key and crucial role played by the operation and effectiveness of the ADP in public revenues, upgrades and exploits its employees, giving them the right incentives and putting them at the wheel of the transition of all public sector services. The draft law is once again proof of how the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis perceives the future of our public services, with sovereign responsibility, the provision of equal opportunities for development, fair evaluation and reward. Such a future we all envision for the whole public body in our country, dedicated to people full of appetite, with strong professional culture, who will build relationships of trust and trust with the citizens. The New Democracy Government once again proves how it invests in deservedness, which brings about efficiency and transparency, which creates the climate of confidence that we all need to cope with better and more competitive challenges. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u93	We also thank the rapporteur of the New Democracy, Mr Pascalides. I would ask that the Step be prepared in order for SYRIZA's rapporteur - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Trypho Alexiadis, from Kavala and he from the background. I see that Kavala is succeeding in Kavala. Mr Alexiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. We are talking today about a bill which we could all vote on. We are talking today about a bill that we could have agreed and finished much earlier. Unfortunately, however, a procedure has been chosen under the responsibility of the government which let me describe it - knowing the gravity of the designation - as a black day for the parliamentary procedure. On a black day for the parliamentary procedure, not only in terms of the previous bill, because there has been heard by our President himself and we have had to leave, but also in this bill. In this bill there are insults that offend Alexiadis or SYRIZA, but offend the House itself. Please, even at this very last moment and the current State Secretary for Finance. The Minister has been in obligation for so many days. At the four meetings of the Committee, it was not possible to attend. I hope that he or the other ministers will be able to come.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u95	He'll be here any minute. Here it is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u96	Is he coming? That is a pleasant thing, but you know within Parliament's Chamber it is done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u97	He'll be here any minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u98	That is good, that it will come because it has to respond to too many requests that have not been answered so far. He and the other Ministers have to answer many questions, such as how, for example, this miracle is going - because it is a miracle - a bill with twenty-six articles and seventy-four pages, being discussed in committee four days in full comfortably, in committee not being told that we will have twenty-seven articles and seventy-four pages, and after the committee which ended on Monday night, there will be a series of amendments which are completely inappropriate with the bill, completely irrelevant and with the Treasury some of them, so today from twenty-seven articles to discuss forty-seven and seventy-seven-seven-seven-seven pages, and after the committee which ended on Monday night, there will be seven hundred-sixteen pages of amendments which are completely inappropriate and nine. Good for you! It's the depository of the state! We started over the previous period to talk about it and it is now a joke, with what has happened over the last few years. Of course, it is a joke when it cannot regulate the issues of amendments and provisions, etc. We are learning the most important amendment - and Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos will talk about it later - of the Ministry of Labour, first of the media, and we are struggling to see when he will be submitted to the House and we expect Mr Hatzidakis to come here, because we have been a little terrified, not by the content of the amendment - so there will be a placement - but we have remembered those days that he will be given his statement, that the EPKA will be the new PPC. And these days, the Greek citizens have understood what happened to PPC, what happened to other PPC services, and we are very afraid of what will happen to Efka. However, when the ministers get there and find time and come here and talk about it, we will be able to put up with more important issues. In relation to the bill, as I said before, we are in favour first of all of resolving issues of the bill, we are in favour of solutions to specific issues, especially when it comes to workers, but this bill has a false title, and it does not. It is the first thing we hear from all parties in the Committee on Economic Affairs and because the bill concerns wages for workers to raise matters and to call for solutions to be given and for answers to be requested and for clarification and for them not to be given. We therefore stress that the bill is important, because it concerns the working life of about twelve thousand workers in very important services, both for the economy of the country and for the political system of the country, because, unfortunately, these services have been used by power parties in the past as the long hand of power. It is very important that we do not allow a service director or a director-general or a person in there in general to be the one who will do the task and lead these services to other situations that we have lived in our country and that we have lived in the past. Because the corruption phenomena that will be extended by this bill will now be borne by the name and specifically those who brought it. So we cannot understand why this precursor should be passed on to this bill in the middle of a pandemic and when there are a number of open issues which the House itself raises. And here, Mr President-in-Office, I would like to make a request to the President and the rest of the Bureau that Parliament should at some point respect the Scientific Service itself and that the meeting should be opened by the Ministers replying to what the Scientific Service of this House itself. Because you are asking us to make position and we are starting with the rapporteurs, when the House's Scientific Service itself in its very right remarks - and I am always studying it when I come to talk - raises a number of issues. In particular, Article 20(2) raises the question in Article 20(2) and says that the future amendment of Law No.4354/2015 may, inter alia, imply a lower wage effect for one civil servant and more unfavourable for another. In other words, depending on the educational category, the years of service which are at a certain point in time, i.e. pay scales, and so on, for some officials, there may also be an increase in remuneration for some other reductions in earnings. So will you respond to these issues, where it says so in particular that there must be answers to these issues? Because we have accepted in the past few days - and I do not want this to happen again - a process of trying to falsify what we say about the bill, we are clearly in favour of the necessary assessment and merit in the public sector. We want there to be such procedures and in no way want there to be any other kind of situation. But the bill does even greater harm. It drives the workers to conceive against the institution of assessment and merit, for which the Left, merit and evaluation SYRIZA has fought for over time. Because we all remember the punitive assessment of the then Minister and now Prime Minister with the compulsory availability of 15% of the workers and other vulnerabilities, which led to redundancies from the Ministry of Finance, for which we have had great struggles and have managed in SYRIZA to re-enter and solve these problems both in the Ministry of Finance and in other sectors of the public sector, which you have gladly fired civil servants and weakened services. We disagree with the bill in many respects. At the same time, we disagree on the fact that it leaves the collective achievement of objectives and gives rise to the logic of individual targeting. At a time of high unemployment, especially among young people, it gives the possibility of hiring staff from the 'window' and tax services where this never existed. I have been following the Ministry of Finance since 1983 that my wife has been appointed and since ‘87 that I was appointed. We have never had such recruitment procedures, contracts and even the window for such situations. You open a window to the Treasury that will lead us to very difficult situations. He also spoke to the Commander of the ADP in committee for best practice. We did not receive an answer, which is why we ask in plenary: what tax or customs service in another civilised country is there such a situation as that described in the bill? Because, by studying the recent IOTA driver - Intra - European Organization of Tax Administrations - for the effectiveness of tax administrations, we have seen that such a system as the one introduced by the bill does not have any other country. Please, Minister, Mr Secretary-General, tell us that this system you are proposing here with a male authority exists both in this country and in that country, and these evaluation procedures exist. I say this once again for the last time: we say yes to democracy and evaluation, we say no to opacity and arbitraryness. We say yes to what promotes transparency and the proper functioning of the public. But the bill doesn't do that. The bill presents important problems and its vote is expected to create more problems than it has to solve. We disagree with the bill because it gives absolute authority to the commander of the ADP for wage differences. We make it clear that this is not a personal matter. We don't disagree with Mr. Pittsili. We disagree with the institution in being able to decide that. We disagree with the linking of the wage to his assessment, as it is in the bill on the means and we believe that the adoption of the above scheme apportions the same core of the wage on a dependent job, since he is now no longer predetermined and stable but depends on factors that are unspecified in advance, variable at any time, such as status benefits, which are not given in the form of bonuses, but constitute the wage. In short, this level creates a glorious field for opaque and clientele practices, and with certainty work peace will be disturbed in a very critical area, such as public revenue. Of course, as I said before, you take responsibility for corruption phenomena which will flourish in a very difficult area, where as a trade unionist I expressed against these phenomena and then in my political capacity, but also in any other capacity. It is a difficult place that if we do not take measures to contain and hit any corruption, then we will have problems in front of us. Take note, however, here of what you have achieved, because, indeed, that is also a miracle. In the field of taxes and customs, at least the government's party had - after what you have done, I anticipate other things - major trade union forces. In other words, the IAEA, the respective party, had great powers. So what did you do with this bill? Everyone is against you. It is against you, of course, all the parties in the House - I have not heard anything else - it is against the bill by many New Democracy Members who cannot go out and say it in public, but in discussions and so on. They express it in various ways, of course, against whole federations, which are not controlled by the SYRIZA. I will mention a characteristic example: the Federation of Customs officials of Greece, which today has a very successful strike - I congratulate them on this mobilisation - with very large percentages of participation. And those of you who thought you'd be easily over with the Treasury, you've learned nothing from struggles that have taken place all the previous years, from the 1980s to the late 1980s. Today, therefore, the Federation of Customs officials of Greece, OTEH, has a strike with great participation, a strike which was declared unanimously. I say it again, unanimously! You can't even convince your own people there about your views on the matter of the bill. I am tabling the relevant document on the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiadis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There is also a press release dated 15 February, which denounces the bill on specific issues relating to the Ministry of Finance, such as that, for example, it does not satisfy the fair request for the equalisation of new employees, to the Ministry of Finance, AIAE, which do not receive the personal difference. Finally, let there be an answer to this question too. Will these issues be resolved once in the Ministry of Finance? With regard to new employees outside the ADP, who are sentenced to EUR 750, 800 wages, the ADED also quite rightly states that this salary is a precursor for the rest of the public in order to abolish unequivocal rights. And that's right, because this bill is not just about the Treasury. In fact, it is a hybrid, it is an attempt, to extend to the rest of the public sector your views, policies you have, but you can be sure that they will also find us as the Left and the trade union movement and society as a whole. In the whole process, serious complaints have been heard so far, in which the commander of the ADA has taken a stand, while you, as political leadership, have not yet answered them. We expect you to respond to these serious complaints even today. In the past, it was me and other trade unionists from the Ministry of Finance, who had published that e-mail, which proved that provisions of the Treasury bill had been written outside Greece by specific officials of specific other bodies, not of the Ministry of Finance. That was condemned here again. This was denounced here by the President of the OLAF, the Federation of Customs officials. We therefore expect you to ensure that this has not been done. And, of course, in order to disprove us, and because you are right at times to submit documents, tables, etc., we expect you to submit to the minutes the first e-mail of the respective management of the AIA, the Ministry of Finance - whatever you want - with which the first draft for this salary was sent. If you don't do that, I'm very sorry, but what you're doing is confirm this complaint. As far as payroll is concerned, however, and because we will listen to criticism about "What do you say?", "What do you support?", "What are your proposals?", we have nothing to say but what the workers themselves say, who, with a very important energy, have sat down on their own to contribute to the dialogue, in a dialogue that you did not want to do. Because if anyone comes into consultation and sees what they put forward as a matter of thought to questions, as proposals themselves by the officials of the Ministry of Finance and what you say, it is very clear what has happened. You don't want a dialogue. And you don't deny the dialogue, you insult the dialogue. The federation itself, however, has quite rightly made it public from 19-11-2020 - I will put forward its proposals on the Minutes. We must as political leadership - I understand the commitments and the limitations - get out and answer this issue. That's what the tax federation suggested. What are your proposals or answers to these issues? Because, as the tax representative of the tax federation said, what the ADP has done is to inform them of the bill. Dialogue between the famous and the one you confess and say a number of nice things here in the House, but no one is convinced anymore, was to be informed of the wage bill. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Treasurer Alexiades, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because both in the committee and in the past and now there are various things about the period of governance of SYRIZA and especially Alexiades, who, until then, has recommended the ADP, I would like to say to you: First of all, let me tell you that I'm proud of this thing. I'm proud of what I did while I was at the Treasury, for the race we played in 2015. And now the correctness of that struggle is confirmed. Many people understand that we did very well and we gave the fight that we gave in 2015, quite rightly we made the compromise we had to make and did not allow you to come back to power a few months after you lost the election. Because all that you've brought from PPC, the streets, the EFKA etc., we'd have lived with them ever since. That's right, so we did and we gave this race. But because some scratches in the tsapanese gypsy and mixes my own name and interferes with SYRIZA, I also searched my rich file and I found AIA's. First of all, read the report of Parliament's Scientific Service, to see how this story began. It wasn't our programme, it's not our property. We inherited it. As General Secretariat of Public Incomes, GDR, we inherited it - it explains it inside the report of the Scientific Office of the Parliament - since 2012, when you then got a executive of the market, which had no party dependency. Later, dear Harry Theocharis understood the good of neoliberalism and supported your party after a course. He's not here, of course, to talk about him, so he doesn't have to say other things. He was also involved with you in the cleaners' layoffs I said before. So, as far as these issues are concerned, it was something we inherited. And because someone's not here now from Mera25, but I guess I'll be briefed and answered, I searched my rich file and found reports in February 2015. I will put it out in the Minutes, and I hope there will be an answer, so that there is no misunderstanding about it, what has been agreed by who, who has received something and where we have managed to achieve it. So a newspaper post, no matter how much one searches the press office of the Ministry of Finance of 2015, there is no denial. I didn't even see a denial later. Publication of what the then Minister of Finance and his entire letter, where he says at a certain point, "... will strengthen the independence of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue...". What does that mean to mere Greek? And he also says, below, "On this basis, the advantages of integrating the GFCM into GFCF should be considered." The people who blame us for selling out the services of the Treasury and creating the AIA, let's go out and tell us what they agreed to then. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will not need more than a minute, Mr President. I want a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u99	Yes, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u100	We inherited this situation and managed through negotiations and the ILO stayed - and we are very proud of it - outside the ILO, and we were able to give another content to this House, strengthen it and reach a situation. And since we're talking about the ILO, sometime let's find out here, at last, whether it's going to be appointed management, whether it's going to be appointed Director-General, if everything's going to move forward, etc. I could speak for a long time, ladies and gentlemen, because of this bill and because of its pre-service and object. But we have said a lot in committee and I do not want to tire you and say the same again. What I would like to say is that the government has achieved a bill which could have the greatest consensus both through dialogue and with the workers to vote today, and I finally wonder whether even the government MPs will vote for it. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u101	And we thank Mr Alexiadis. Please prepare the Step in order to get the floor for the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Kostas Scandalidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u103	Do you want anything, Minister? Mr. Alexiadis, the Minister is here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u104	I saw him before, and it was nice to meet you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u105	So you don't worry. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you very much, Mr President. Until my dear colleague gets the floor, I would just like to call for the Civic Opposition - until the end of today's meeting - to table to us the proposals he has made to the institutions for the ADP's rating and salary, as it had been committed since 2 May 2017. I guess two years was enough. Therefore, I would like to know the positions of the then political leadership of the Ministry of Finance as submitted to the institutions on 2 May 2017. I will submit to the Minutes the specific commitments you have made since then. I guess you'd have done two and a half years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u107	Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u108	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will disagree with Mr Alexiadis. Based on the reasoning that the government legislates, there would obviously be no convergence, because I believe there are wider and strategic differences, in the way we understand the administration and the course today of the state in general and the way of governance. Perhaps because it was made by SYRIZA the first mistake of proclamation of AIA to an Independent Authority, it is easier to convene. I believe that there is no scope for convergence. Mr President, in the next few hours, we will have a bill that has been contained in this House for more meetings and, indeed, for substance. It is not only that an entire administrative perception passes through a few hours' process. That is why three amendments have been tabled by the government, which required a very special debate. Topics such as the establishment of an institution for the management of family property, such as temporary pensions and pension interventions, such as a new intervention after so many interventions in sport, are issues which cannot be discussed in the next three, four hours, five hours, six hours, seven hours, as long as today's debate takes place. I believe that this is an insult to the parliamentary procedure and it also shows an incomprehensible rush, because, in fact, you are excluding us from the basic right to be able to talk about such serious issues. In any case, at least the Minister for Labour could come here today and analyse the amendment he tabled on pensions. But to come to the start now, to know what we are talking about and what you are calling on us to vote on. It's an elementary obligation. I repeat - and I may be one of myself - that it is not possible to continue this parliamentary practice. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the debate that took place in the committee was very revealing. All meetings. Each meeting was of its own importance. There was a minister who listened to all parties in detail putting matters to him, there were the bodies that all reluctantly reject the bill - everyone! - while some are gaining financially from this process. We watched a commander's monologue, who appeared here as a vezier, cheating on us answering any questions we asked him, described his model and left. And the government is coming today, without any change of antenna from the bill, and calls on us to discuss it again and vote on it. I believe that the final state, which you so passionately defend, imposes on all the bills the same procedure. It doesn't change or slap from what we get down in the House. To vote, to finish, to enter a new era. So the country is not entering a new era in any way, because it is not simply insulting the parliamentary procedure, but excluding the possibility of consensus, and it further excludes the possibility that the solutions proposed may be feasible, effective, realistic, in order to give answers to the major problems that the country is facing today. We are therefore discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, the wages and issues relating to the development of the human resources of the Independent Public Income Authority. A new remuneration scheme, which legislates the basic salary calculation system based on the education category of officials and years of service, and the allowances of children, remote border areas and the benefits of dangerous and unhealthy work, as provided for in the public sector wages, is established. The second chapter adopts changes to the system of selection of head of organic units and to the system of staff development of the ADP staff. Here I am going to make a few comments on separate criticism issues in this general context. The first is institutional. In our view, Minister, this bill is a living proof that SYRIZA's third memorial and the commitments of the memorial surveillance, which he has conspired, lives and reigns today. Then the government imposed them. They are also reigning today because the New Democracy has brought them into instruments for enforcing its ideological obsessions. The conversion of the General Secretariat of Public Revenue to an Independent Public Revenue Authority was a choice that our resignation rejected from the outset, how much more so when an expert on the board is placed in its selection by the European Commission. It could then negotiate the country and not even exist. The second point concerns the political issue. SYRIZA's salary you voted against as a party when it first came. The basic salary system with No.4354/2015 had been rejected globally. Now as a government you redeem it as a basic salary of the independent authority. I think these changes required an explanation. What has changed since you voted against the law that you are actually coming to implement today? The third question of criticism in the bill is administrative. This is where you will allow me a very small regression. In recent times, shortly after the post-Multipulation, in the 1980s, there was a perception that there were huge injustices in the way wages were introduced to civil servants because they reached great inequalities. I remember a time when the cleaning lady, for example, took more money from a director of the Ministry of Labour or the Ministry of Interior. Then the basic progressive idea was the single wage, as you all remember, and that is what we and the other governments tried to do through a series of laws that changed things. I think they were trying to change them for the better. The new era obviously needs to introduce the concept of productivity, public efficiency. Obviously it must introduce the idea of an administration that has objectives and wants results. And it obviously must also introduce the possibility of employees being paid in some way, so that they can do their jobs better. The question is how the officials are paid and how this is judged and whom it is judged. I'm asking you, too. Is it possible in a unit where officials have the same qualifications, typically and essentially, to be assessed in a different way? Will the unit be assessed for the project or will each employee be assessed? Are you going to tell him the clerk "go get these taxes or claim that money from this company to get a bonus"? Is this a logic that favours effective evaluation and enables businesses, if you like, to have a common understanding and to function systematically and collectively towards the same objective? I think that the aim should be to be in a unit of administration and to be equally rewarded by the employees of the unit, on the assumption that they do a common job, they achieve a common goal that is measurable and therefore they can get a bonus. Second, who's gonna decide the bonus? Is there any delimitation in the bill today? Or does the commander simply assess and decide how much bonus each employee will get and therefore fully depend on the personal viewpoint of the commander, the function, the development of each employee? This is a huge issue. I wonder how a government, which claims to be modern and uses modern management and modern administrative science, can put such a time bomb into the operation of public administration. It is a huge problem, which at all events only reforms public administration. And there is the democratic problem, which has to do with making the commander of ADP as a body of supremacy over taxpayers, but also the workers of the authority with minimal democratic accountability. I don't care so much about the faces we see, I'm interested in his institution and responsibilities. Obviously this person cannot exercise a real democratic policy, so effective policy too. On the contrary, it will cause great problems when it builds the organisation itself when it builds the rating itself, when it can give the bonus where it thinks it can, when it creates economic inequalities between the same employees of the same qualifications, when it effectively breaks up and imposes on them an administrative mechanism from the top to exercise a political efficiency. I believe that a fragmented administrative mechanism does not exert an effective policy. And if what I'm saying is theoretically, you should have heard - you weren't there - all the bodies, regardless of which party they were. Not all issues can be traced back to the rightfulness of claiming certain rights. These people came there aware of the work they did and the fear of applying the wages, which many of them helped to implement. In other words, the risk seemed to their words, or rather the certainty that there will be no effective functioning of the administration under the conditions that the commander decided that things should be done. I would like to point out that we are not against the evaluation of employees. We've said it a hundred thousand times. We are against evaluation with arbitrary individual objectives and, above all, against evaluation by intimidation and without an institutional framework imposed by the government and by the decisions of Parliament in which there is a collective change in public administration, because I imagine that you, too, want to do so. But it is a clear difference of perception, strategy, attitude, reformist dynamics, how we believe that a reform can be better and how it can be counter-reform or have no effect. For the amendment we tabled, we will talk later, I do not need to speak now. What I want to say is that there should be a serious and necessary debate, Minister, on the incentive system throughout the public administration, both with the ADED and with the whole of society, so that we can go to a system that is sustainable. I am not concerned with tomorrow, because many things from what we did were wrong and many things from what was done were incomplete. But we've always put a little bit of a liquor on it. Let's go from now on. From now on it would require another policy from you, another type of governance, which, unfortunately, I do not think you can do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. The reason is the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u110	Thank you. Gentlemen of government, you don't stop impressing us. And of course I am not speaking positively, Minister. Let me begin, not from the bill, but from one of the amendments which literally makes an eye. They will also take up positions on the other amendment from the Ministry of Labour that hampers pensioners and has a number of other provisions. Christos Katsotis will then speak, as will our parliamentarian. However, I would like to talk about the amendment tabled by Mr Auganos, who has literally broken every record of the muddy amendments, with the full support, of course, of both the Government and the Prime Minister himself, as he does. Take her back and stop being exposed. It is unacceptable and inappropriate amendment. If she hadn't been suspicious, she wouldn't have chosen to be brought by Mr. Aeggeakis once again to the muskets. As soon as a bill on sport was submitted yesterday, why did it not include it in the provisions of the bill if it was not afraid to be discussed openly? Not that this bill also deals with the real problems of associations, but on this amendment it goes once again into a shameful, raw intervention to control the elections of sports federations. Apart from intervening in an already proclaimed election and canceling it in a series of unions, in the rowing, in the lifting of burdens, in sailing and elsewhere, and even in elections which have been proclaimed by your own law and in accordance with the procedure of electronic voting, we disagree, of course, and we will say below, it also goes on to an improper violation of the statutes of sports bodies which provide for the choice of a committee of inquiry by the clubs themselves. However, the amendment comes to replace this. And what does it predict? That the whole committee of inquiry will be composed of three lawyers, of course, opening up the way for other unions and bodies, on the grounds of transparency. In other words, everyone is potentially corrupted, except those appointed by Mr. Aygeakis. It will not elect the club, the general assembly, its responsible committee, but the Minister himself. Well, let the Minister define, and the administration itself, to choose, to finish. After all, with what is being heard, I do not know whether we need to wait for another amendment. To vote in favour of the covid, only the presidents of the clubs and not those appointed by the general assembly and the boards of directors. It is not far from choosing the administrations themselves, recalling other times. Of course, I have also said on several occasions about the electronic voting procedure that it does not create any security. Not only is it a dangerous distortion to be seen as a democratic process to hold elections without informing, without living debate, confrontation, a process which cannot, of course, be ensured by pressing a like and dislike button in front of a computer's screen, but there are serious problems in the diagnosing of the elections. Of course, because of the pandemic conditions, the necessary health conditions can be ensured, such as with more electoral units, or if you need to extend the administrations for a short period, as you have done to a number of bodies. But the government's aim is another. That is why you are trying to introduce electronic voting. No guarantee at all is there for their fairness. And not only are we talking about the numerous research carried out by scientists, bodies worldwide, who find many problems and technically, but also about the possibility of intervention to distort the result, as well as the inability to maintain the secrecy of the vote, but above all because it does not ensure in any way that the one who votes behind a computer works on its own without pressure, even in person. The same experience from the “ZEEA” system that was used in the rectorial elections and will be used in the elected representatives of sport is revealing. The vote was taken with a simple electronic link, which can easily be leaked and voted again and again by anyone, simply knowing how to identify the voter, but much more, one cannot rule out the possibility of another voting for another. The electronic voting link that was given could be given by a voter to another vote for a second time. As if someone were giving his identity to the parliamentary elections to vote for him. Of course, in the parliamentary elections, I do not know if you do so, you have a large number of experiences available to the trade unions, which you now go to generalize them in this way. So we are telling you again not to accept, to take this amendment back. You are, of course, particularly effective in strengthening the tax evasion and repressive mechanisms, which you are trying to do with today's bill. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Maybe on civil protection issues you don't get a nail. Why else should it be explained that after so many meetings - CEDEFOP and staff - not only did national and central roads paralyse public transport, but whole areas, thousands of families stay free of power and water for forty-hours and put? Of course, all of this is not the result of our extreme, bad weather, but of the extreme subsidization of the TEN, the contractors, the maintenance cuts, that is, the political liberation of energy that you serve and you all serve with piety. As long as you are not cut off for the urgent establishment of infrastructure projects, on the other hand, you are showing absolute importance to prepare the collecting mechanism with a selected, ruthless body of officials, who, with the bolts of achieving individual goals and pressures and immortality, will complete the mission of plundering the popular incomes coming at high speed. For all these self-employed, small professionals, workers who sink into debt, the Ministry is allegedly proclaiming that it supports them, with their suspensions for a short time later of their obligations, which gather mountain for the next day or even with the various horizontal measures provided for, even the exemption for some of the rents. However, the same goes for large businesses and colossians - which may have multiplyed their profits by e-shopping - is said to lighten the neighborhood's micromass, the focus being destroyed. They, you know, are not in a position for the rent of their house to pay. That is why you are fundamentally reforming the control of the operation of the ADP, through the formulation of these wages, in such a way that it is actually determined and what it will be the nature of the ADP to maintain. And we do not accidentally say that this character retains it, because that was precisely its character since the beginning of the creation of the independent authority. He complains, of course, today, that SYRIZA - not for him, he is proud - of the changes that are taking place which are exacerbating this role of AIA, as well as of course the KINAL which, together with New Democracy and the SYRIZA - ANELs, have imposed these Memorandum commitments that are currently being implemented. It is therefore a strategic choice not only of the current government but also of all the previous ones, in order to monitor the achievement of the tight fiscal targets, that is to say, to monitor the absolute observance of the bleeding surpluses through the tax bleeding of the people's strata, which - even if they were temporarily frozen - will come forward as a roller. Because it is known that exhaustive controls and fines are not, of course, directed to large business groups, to smugglers, shipowners and others. They're the ones you're taxing with the boogeyman. Or even fines you impose - and with the most recent legislative changes - it is a mess in the face of the unsatisfactory profits they make. Extreme controls are turning towards popular strata. Indicative of this nature, therefore, is also the special wage that you are creating on private-sector criteria, on the basis of market criteria, on the hunting of targets, on efficient bonuses, i.e. completely foreign to the functioning of the public service. As far as the general structure is concerned, it is, of course, based on the wage bills that have been voted on by previous governments, with all the reactionary aspects that we have already highlighted. Because for the vast majority of employees they remain poor. In other words, the major cuts made in their wages are maintained and, of course, this does not substantially change either by the various increases introduced or by overtime wages, nights and others, which are a drop in the ocean in the face of the great losses they have suffered. However, for the first time in the public sector - possibly also in the cartoon - these payrolls are actually introduced, beyond the formal qualifications of each employee, and with the very outline of the position that he will serve. Employees, i.e. with exactly the same standard qualifications, with the same social and other criteria, will be paid at different rates, depending on the part in which they work, with the outline of the position that will shape and classify them each time. In other words, the chiefs of authority will be given much greater power over officials, since, in their own subjective crisis, they will be able to influence their own salaries by moving them into a non-sensitive outline. This further reinforces the manipulation and immortality of employees, with its well-known tactics "divide and ruled". A favourable ground shall be created for selecting and placing specific managers in better paid positions, with criteria within and with the annual evaluation process. Basically, a separate layer of employees is formed within the ADP itself, which will now be opposite the others, for which working conditions and working relations each day are dramatically exacerbated, as, of course, they will also be against the people, by promoting the objectives of government anti-popular policy in every way. Of course, the commander of the ADP, who already had absolute power, is now literally turned into the absolute ruler, since he can rule the staff not only by determining his development, but now he will also determine his own wages at his hand. It will create new location profiles that will button both the respective and selected working grades and the relevant workers. Inadmissible is also the introduction to Article 15 of the special bonus according to the extent to which these objectives are achieved. In other words, you are pushing the officials, who are obviously unable to deal with payrolls, especially young employees of EUR 700 and 800, to put the knife in the neck of the people more so that tax-radiation can go ahead with a clock. In the short term, you will also have a "head-in-head wage". At the same time, since you could not otherwise impose the reactionary state evaluation, from which the vast majority of officials are far from being, you have found another way. You have depended on any increase in their earnings and their evolution from participation in these processes, so that extortion can work more effectively. Even greater is being blackmailed for the young employees of the independent authority, for whom the unacceptable regime of their exclusion is maintained from the personal disparity set at EUR 700 and 800. For all of these, it is not a solution to have them hunt the bonuses, but to abolish this unacceptable exception from the personal difference. We have tabled a specific amendment to this effect - and we have also called on the Secretary of State to be placed on the committees - to bring back all the employees of the personal dispute. Of course, personal differences are well aware that, beyond its temporary nature, it does not, of course, make up for the wage cuts for the vast majority of officials, who ultimately absorb their wage increases. However, it is not possible to maintain such an unacceptable distinction against young employees when at every opportunity you shed crocodile tears for scientists and Brain Drain. Even your rapporteur has spoken of the reluctance and difficulties in the wages of these young employees in choosing to work in these posts. However, you maintain an unacceptable distinction, even when standardized and do the same work, to be paid for with much lower wages. These are the workers who belong to the tax, customs, legal, chemical and other sectors who took over service after 11 October 2018, when it was also the last time the personal difference was attributed, whether they are hired via AEPs or transfers. Indeed, in this particular case, it concerns officials who may in the previous post have been entitled to the personal difference, who have been lost since their transfer to the ADP. Thus, there are many times when the oxymoil workers who have been transferred over recent years receive a lower salary than employees with the same qualifications, but with fewer years of service, much more so that for many of the employees there is even a question of living with the increase in the economic difficulties that exist in the current conditions of the crisis and pandemic. Of course, the problem is much greater for workers, for example, who have undertaken a service to institutions that are far from home, but also for newly appointed competition 1C/2017, who have been charged with extra costs to move to Athens, without any compensation, and are trained. For all of these, therefore, the unacceptable discrimination regime of their wages is maintained. We urge you to accept the party's amendment. In relation to the rest of the bill, we are voting against it at first - and we are also in favour of these articles - because not only does it make it easier, it does not solve, but it is ultimately expanding the injustices between the workers, especially because it strengthens the reactionary role of the AIA as a tax-free mechanism for workers and the people. The other amendments will then be put to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, my colleague. The reason is now the special speaker of the Greek Solution Mr. Vassiliardos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, since you are here, may I ask you a question: is the privatisation of taxes really planned, namely the use of outsourcing services by individuals? If yes, in what areas? Practical? And with what standard? If you want, answer. We shall be referring to the amendment by the Minister for Labour when it comes to supporting it. We hope you do. Ladies and gentlemen, before I speak on the draft law, I would like to refer to the JRC's attitude toward us - I address you - as the last time we have been collectively insulted again with genuinely golden expressions, which is the definition of fascism, and then we apologized to our Members - Mr Pafilis in this regard, none of you. He apologized to our Vice-President for having other Members. The JRC did the same once before, without apparently realizing that the apology by someone who is unable to control himself is useless and is misled, although rather deliberately in the above cases for reasons he knows the same. We have never blamed it, knowing that it is in fact an urban, completely systemic party, since it participates in Parliament, it collects state subsidies, and its MPs are also rewarded by the civil state. This also applies to its participation in the European Parliament. We have absolutely nothing against the communist perceptions, despite the fact that we do not share them. However, the pure communism that we may have to respect as much as any other party and its urban systemic form may be. We will now continue with the impression made by the Secretary-General's speech to the first committee, which emphasised twice that the bill we are discussing today is a Memorandum of Understanding and a Prerequisite for the SYRIZA Government. Our impression was reasonable, having formally confirmed that the memorials are continuing. And the reason why he felt the need to transfer responsibility to SYRIZA was obviously not to agree with the draft law either. He has, of course, explained his position in the second committee, claiming that the state has continued and that this is a precondition for his credibility, precisely in these words. Just as in the case of Skopje, where New Democracy does not agree with the Treaty of Prespecies, but considers it obliged to observe it strangely, despite the fact that Skopje does not even keep it to the minimum, exporting products by the name of Macedonia and costing our Macedonian producers a great deal of money, who have spent too much on advertising the designation of origin for several years. The Undersecretary also said that he considers that we have left behind the toxic climate of the past in terms of the dual commemoration and antimony, according to his, of course, characterisation. We have responded to him, however, that he may not have understood neither he nor his Government that the view of the memorial has now prevailed, since no state in Europe has been understood to face the 2020 recession with a memorandum, as the austerity policy which has literally destroyed Greece in recent years. Besides, the Minister of Finance had accused PASOK of bringing the memorials to Greece, so he certainly agrees with their destructiveness. The government under Mr Samaras then made a great deal of progress on its policy of "Zapia", not only by applying memoranda - with the exception, of course, in 2014, where we also had this small development - but much worse by signing Germany's conversion into Germany's incomplete debt colony with the PSI. The Deputy Minister further confirmed the absolute self-sufficiency and independence of the ADP by our state, which the Commander of the ADP did, in fact, through his non-response to any questions we have raised at all, as we have seen later - because we did not believe it - from the reading of the Minutes. As far as the hearing of the bodies is concerned, the fact that no one at all supported the bill, while, according to the chairman of the federation, there was no dialogue, is enough to vote against all of us, although perhaps SYRIZA supports the government, because, as the State Secretary said, it is his Memorandum of Understanding. Besides, the Minister for Finance has submitted some of your commitments in the Minutes, where he has submitted them. We'll see them later. She testified them, though, we'll see. We hope, of course, that SYRIZA does not do so, having realised his mistakes, greater than the betrayal of his own ideology, it was the murder of the last hope of the Greeks, that is, that he managed to convince the Greeks that there is no alternative to the memorialities, despite the fact that the left-wing coup d'état of Portugal, as I said before, did the exact opposite, leading her country to the exit of the crisis with the complete abolition of the memoranda. He refused yet another support proposed by the then Minister for Finance, Mr Shoeble. Knowing now that the draft law is a Memorandum of Understanding that does not change, we will not refer to its articles here - although we did so in committee, analyzing their many injustices - since their debate is a pretext and we do not like to mock ourselves or, of course, the Greek citizens. We will talk better about the institution, that is to say, since, as we stressed, there is no point in referring to the articles in the SYRIZA Memorandum of Understanding - or whoever is - to the prerequisites, as the Secretary-General described in the committee. In this respect, as a result of the signing of the third memorandum after the anti-constitutional reversal of the referendum, the murder of the Greeks' last hope and the declaration of subjection of the then government in Germany, were created by the lenders of two foreign organizations in Greece under their control. First, the SIPS, known as an overseer, gradually seizes the public assets placed as a guarantee for the three loan contracts. And secondly, ADI with the aim of safeguarding the private property of the Greeks, again for the service of public debts, which was also passed by parliament with Act No.4389/2016, taking over the State’s revenue collection from 1 January 2017, as well as the organisation of tax and customs controls. Under its control the whole material basis of the Ministry of Finance, such as taxes, customs, the General Chemistry of the State and others, from which the Ministry was effectively removed all its operational activities. According to the Act, the Greek Government is forbidden to exercise any control over the ADI, which is therefore political and economic superpowers, since it is responsible for collecting the tax and customs revenues of the State, without giving account to anyone or even the Minister of Finance. Furthermore, as with the Memorandums, the establishment of the ADP is contrary to the requirements of the Constitution, because it is conferred on it responsibilities of the narrow core of the state, without having political responsibilities, since it is not subject to political and parliamentary control, despite the fact that it replaces the executive. In particular, it infringes Articles 82, 84 and 86 of the Constitution, as well as the case law of the Court of Justice. because it is not allowed to be accountable for political responsibilities, such as the members of the government, according to our parliamentary system, how much more so when it cannot be controlled by the relevant ministries or by the parliament and is not accountable to anyone, while its powers are tax, tax, tax, financial and strictly coercive, so state. Continuing, its predecessor, the predecessor of the authority, the General Secretariat of Public Revenue, was under the control of the Ministry of Finance, while for ADI, which does not fall anywhere, in accordance with paragraph 4 of Article 5, the following shall apply: ‘In the event of disagreement with the Minister of Finance with its command, on the application of tax policy, the matter shall be referred by the Minister to its Board of Directors’. In simple terms, the AACC on its own decides on the Minister's disagreement, so it is higher hierarchically than the Minister, the Ministerial Council and the House, on matters within its competence. Well, logically, he didn't answer any of our questions. In this respect, a larger state in a state could never imagine, once again substantiating that Greece has completely lost its national sovereignty, while creditors have installed two powerful agencies, the superstition and the AIA, to plunder our country completely undisturbed. Even worse, the AACC replaces the functioning of the legislator, the House, in other words, on a number of issues of general fiscal and economic policy, as well as administration, such as the determination of revenue, the control of their collection, measures to combat tax evasion, the way in which they deal with the para-economic situation and so on. On all these issues, such as electronic auctions or the seizures of accounts, concerning, of course, public debts, the ADP - without asking anyone and not answering anything - not the Minister of Finance or even the Prime Minister. Continuing, we wondered why the bill is being tabled, since the ADA is independent. The answer is, of course, self-evident. For example, in order to recruit more staff who will pay the public, all of us, that is, to pay better - where they can - the existing one. However, the cost, on the basis of the General Accounting Office of the State, amounts, firstly, to EUR 48 million per year for the new salary, of which EUR 28 million for the current year and secondly, to EUR 13.2 million per year for recruitment and for thirty-six months. We have asked how the remaining 20 million euros are justified and why for thirty-six months, without getting any answers. Now, according to reports we submitted in the Minutes, although nothing seems in the draft law, a thousand three hundred and twenty-four additional people will be hired. We asked whether this is true and we didn't get an answer here either, so we're asking again, if we can get any answers. In addition, there are various other variable costs, such as overtime pay and others, which, strangely enough, the State's General Accounting Office accounts for EUR 2.5 million, when it rarely reports costs in bills, as well as other possible costs, such as better pensions not quantified. There is no justification anywhere to substantiate why more officials are needed. However, on the basis of the November 2020 indicator report - which we also submitted to the committee in the Minutes - it must employ about nine people. So, according to this bill, it will more than double its staff. Now, according to the 2019 report, its budget for this use amounted to EUR 495 million from EUR 434 million in 2018 - in other words, it was increased - by telling the committee that we were given a great impression of the EUR 500 million, since it really is not too little. The most important thing, however, is its incredible inertia with regard to the various tax evasion lists, where the scandal itself covers three thousand seventy-four cases, while a thousand two hundred seven were checked and a total of 1,6 billion euros were collected, i.e. only one in three cases and only 10% in receipts, without including new revelations from the 'Panama papers' and 'paradise papers'. Therefore, its only successes are the persecution of poor private individuals and small and medium-sized enterprises that are completely defenceless, while Greece lost EUR 1.5 billion of taxes from tax havens operating within Europe only in 2017. Almost every year we lose that amount. Finally, unfortunately, it does not surprise us that another draft law of the present government includes a large number of opaque and privileged provisions. The special and privileged wage and service treatment of officials - particularly the great-minded ones - as well as the associates and contributors of the AACC is, on the one hand, unfair to other civil servants by introducing inequalities, on the other hand, provoking Greek citizens, who are actually paying these people for this particular period especially at this point in time. The government's choice to legitimise such privileges to ASE officials and officials is perhaps a preamble to what still awaits Greek citizens, in order to address the huge deficits created in 2020, while they continue with the ruthless manipulations of the government in the context of dealing with the pandemic. We have already heard that the deficit will be twice what was in the budget. These deficits together with the wrong forecasts of the financial staff plus the paradoxical estimate of some of the same income taxes and VAT in 2021 with 2019, as we mentioned in committee, make the budget of 2021 useless for garbage. We will therefore repeat for the third time that the Minister of Finance must immediately submit a new budget, to know where Greece is driving. You have to testify to him and you must not do it like we said last year, and you have finally tabled no interim budget. Other favoured countries, such as Germany, do so. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u113	Others?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u114	The Germans. Last year Germany testified. That's what I told you. Isn't that enough? It's about what we do!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, my colleague. The special speaker of Mera25 Mr Arsenis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Ministers, MPs and MPs, the bill we are debating today is, in fact, a follow-up to the memorials, the memorials brought in 2017 and SYRIZA to proceed to AD, to this Independent Public Income Authority. We are now moving on to the special privileges of some specific ADP officials in order to make the work for the Troika more obviously better. At this point I would like to make it clear that the ADA is independent of the government, not because it protects it from complexion or from discreet administration of tax matters, but it is independent of our country, because it depends on foreign affairs, it depends on the troika. After all, the success of the ADP in managing the various tax scandals, such as the Lagard lists and others, is really low. It's very little what he managed to do. We have two members of the board appointed directly by the European institutions, while the expert is appointed by the government through a list given by the European institutions to the government again. At the same time, our Government does not have access to tax software, that is, where our citizens, all of us, pass our tax data. It's a software that doesn't belong to our country, which is shocking. So what do we talk about when the ADP, which means monitoring public revenue and controlling tax software, our customs and so many other services, necessary public tools, belong to an independent body, but which depends on the European institutions as to who controls it? What we are doing now - and that is why all the bodies have taken down this bill - is that we are giving further powers to the Commander of the AACC. The powers that it has to control so many sectors of government are not enough, it will now monitor in detail, by itself and uncontrollably, the employees of the ADP, it will check who has a right to a higher wage and who has a right to special privileges. Of course, this is part of a wider strategy of the government, which would bring it up on its own, even if it had no memos, such as the dissolution of collective agreements which currently lead to wages and the private sector. What the government has denounced us in the 2000s as a'retire' no longer mentions, as it has managed to level them into'semi-globalisation'. In other words, we have had the levelling-up of any worker who was getting away from basic wages and minimum working rights and had another protection framework, because he worked too long or because he worked in a special position, and so on. These people are now slowly leveling up at the wages of a worker. This is the great picture, MPs and MPs, the picture of the future that the government is looking after us, where anyone who escapes the average wage will get a worker wage, the children of all of us will work as workers with these wages, while the workers will, of course, have no right. Also, anyone who lives in a home that escapes from what corresponds to the working class will lose it. And that is a step forward - step by step, how much more now, when, in the midst of the coronary and the worst economic crisis, you legislated the bankruptcy code. Of course, you are creating some supposedly 'golden boys' on specific agencies, where the revenue for our lenders is, where the public enterprises are that you want to privatise. As soon as these people do their job, they too will be found to lose their own privileges. You're making a special payroll for a few. The impressive thing here is that the man who works in AIA and takes for whatever reasons the commander chooses will do an increased salary, while the same job will be done at the Ministry of Finance by another employee with a much lower wage. That is what you are starting and, of course, it is a model that you want to repeat in other public places, precisely because that allows for control. Already public workers are afraid to give negative opinions, which is what we have seen for many years. These are the complaints that reach us. People are now afraid to express their scientific opinion. With such tools and people who will serve and the goals of our lenders you will achieve even greater obedience. We are bringing in another amendment, the amendment to restore VAT to the premier levels for our islands. It is an amendment which Merra25 reintroduces for the fourth or fifth time. And we will do it again and again until you accept it or at least be clear about why you do not accept it. So far, Minister, you have rejected it for procedural reasons. Once again you have dared to tell us that it is late, when all the amendments made by your government are overdue. You also told us that she was insane with tax bills. Minister, we invite you to be clear. Do you think it is time to restore VAT to our islands at the premier level or not? Our islanders are currently experiencing the worst economic crisis. If you want, this is the first time that the crisis touches them so severely, because so far tourism has given them a breath to escape the great consequences of the memorandums. Now, however, they are in a very bad state. Do I repeat, then, is it time to restore VAT to the pre-monetary levels or not? Do we have any memos or not? Please tell us really, in answer to the question whether you will adopt this amendment. Of course, I can only close by referring to the government's tragic reaction to the bad weather, the "Medea" which you have known in time. You knew the scale of the phenomenon in time and yet again you were unable to deal with the situation. So since you have a "final" state only in the name, and in practice you have a state that cannot function and it suits you not to function, because that is what you are repeatedly using as a pretext to privatise new services of the state mechanism, and since you cannot react sufficiently to the weather phenomena that, because of climate change, these will be from now on, at least do not cause another climate change with the extraction of hydrocarbons and the mining of gold in primitive forests, such as that in Skouria. As far as we are concerned, you are preparing the mining in the Perama of Alexandroupolis and in the Komotini RES, and who knows where else, with wind in the most untouched areas of Greece, when the European Commission is preparing to send us to the European Court of Justice for the second time, because we are violating and dismantling the provisions of environmental licensing. We're not making proper assessment and so on. And all this, instead of making it self-evident, instead of the Reconstruction Fund, the European Union fund, which starts because of the coronary, should be used for two basic things, for a complete 'I save at home' programme, so as to reduce consumption in all first homes, but also for a complete programme for roof photovoltaics, which, based on the study by the European Commission in 2019, our country can, with this programme, cover over 30% of electricity consumption and stop this prey of nature in protected areas. At last, do something! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u117	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now we're going to the first circle of speakers with a natural presence. Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Madam President. Really, if Mr. Tsipras were here, he could answer us if he remembers well, about his perception of time. Was it two, three minutes, when the highway was closed over your days, Mr. Chakalote? Was it two, three minutes? The eight hours seemed to you two, three minutes? Two months later, you didn't close the national at the same point on the Kaliftakis Bridge, with two snow points, why did you scare what had happened two months ago? When we speak in the House, I always hoped that we would listen to things that are much more serious, for example, the withdrawal of Officer Opposition. That was a serious move and indeed states your intentions. I would also like to remind my dear colleagues in the Officerial Representation of certain simple facts. You took one single PPC and you did three things, one after the other. Firstly, you immediately reinstated trade union privileges, giving some of the things that had been lost by the previous GSP collective agreements. You put the trade unions on the wheel. That's February. An old comrade of yours did it, and maybe that's why you don't remember. Shortly thereafter, you chose an old trade unionist - worthy of many other things, but old trade unionist - and candidate MP with your resignation, with SYRIZA, to become president and CEO of PPC. That was a little later. After all, in the position of Vice-President and Deputy CEO you have again put a man of the mechanism, a man who had dealt with you. Also, as far as the deputies are concerned, you have been acting as deputy director of a man who was a department officer. The third move you've made just received, which I'll tell you how it appeared to all of us, was to meditate actions in favour of the Kalogerica group. The company "TOXOTIS" took many jobs of PPC. He's got even more of the DED. One of them was found out a month and a half ago, because all of a sudden, our quarter suddenly stayed in power for so many days. They came, they worked, they found something, they did something, they lifted the switch and they left, until at the end they said, "Mr. Papademiriou, when they came and passed the wires, underground, they did not insulate them, but they put them in hand. We all knew that they were Mr. Kalogrisa's companies." So it is not a threat that the Minister told you earlier that it is a matter worth discussing, since it has all these dimensions. I am sorry, Madam President, that I am now speaking outside of our subject, but we cannot discuss it. You've changed three, four administrations. I don't remember how many! You didn't invest. We keep saying that. You reduced the investments compared to 2014. He was lying about what maintenance costs he did, for a network that in the meantime grew too fast for a good cause, because we put in both wind and solar. All these things have been recorded. I read it here in the papers, I know it through conversations. Remember the black out in Attica for hours all of a sudden, for no reason. There was nothing, it was in the summer. In Hydra and Spetses complaints were heard to a large extent, similar to what is heard today about the northern suburbs, for they remained longer than the few hours that Athens was left at that time. We're still looking to see how the power was cut. I want to say this: come with us and do a serious job. I'm not saying problems have been solved. It's obvious. Everything that has happened over the last forty-eight hours shows that the current administration of the TEN has to prove, indeed, that it can and can better than what it had done when it worked in the private sector. This is an observation from all those who are struggling for the future of the country and certainly for a sector which is of great interest to us. However, you have voted against here in the same Chamber a while ago, because that is what the government is trying to put funds to the DEDEN, because that is what it needs. He needs investments. And, of course, I would like to point out that, on the day-to-day agenda of the DEDEFOP, between '12+1 strategic projects' - here are, I was looking at one hour ago - it is nothing to do with the daily lives of the citizen. And in that, the companies won't give a damn about the Stock Exchange. They're going to speak to the House. However, I now come to the issue that concerns us today, because it is indeed one of the issues that I have encountered in the past many times and I also like the spirit of the objection that exists. I do not think there is any worse act on the opposition than adopting conceived and unthinked - and even when an Opposition has exercised power and when it has met the problems that exist - what is being heard. I think the opposition would have to, after it had at least built the AIA and after it had been accepted, either denounced itself and said, "We didn't know what we were doing, we were subordinate and the Troika put it on" or else acknowledge that it was done with the creation of the AIA an important step forward. My party didn't buy it easy. No one has forgotten how things took place between the first leadership of this sector before it became ADP and the latter. I remember asking my colleague and colleague "who is this Pittsilis" and saying to me "we don't know". We still don't know today, gentlemen. And this is very important because I hear, as often happens, in the corridors of the House that this Pittsilis does not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It doesn't, but on the other hand, we have an ADA, which has 12 000 employees. Twelve thousand employees must have incentives to work towards a private sector, a huge mechanism which, now, with the provisions - the right ones - has the possibility of closing books and moving forward. And that's what it's supposed to be. We need an ADI that is believed first of all by all by the people who work for it. In the end, what is being done in there is, as everyone can see, a rationalization is coming in. We want him somewhere else. We want him on other aspects of the public sector. It's on the single payroll line. It is precisely on the line that you too have often defended and for good reasons at times when you did have the burden of public tasks. I therefore believe, ladies and gentlemen, that at the moment we are not talking realistically but we are talking about the positions of some people. For example, other employees say 'we also want to be in the same position'. We'll see. If it's so good, why are they denouncing it and why do you adopt their opinions? The House must listen carefully to the institutions, the trade unions, all but must not give in to the language and speech of those who have their own reasons to support their own interests. We mustn't succumb to each other, but go ahead. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, because I am succeeding with my colleague Mr Papademiriou in Stepa, I would say that today, after these two days when we saw the complete failure of the state in terms of a snow expected for ten days and the lack of preparation, the total lack of coordination of public services and with half Attica in the dark, and, as President Alexis Tsipras said, with two hundred and fifty thousand households having no power and water, I would expect at least one self-criticism. We didn't see that. We have heard all of what Mr Papadimitriou said about the TEN, but of course what he has not told us is the conscious deterioration of the TEN on the path to privatisation and the undermining. We also understood, Mr Papadimitriou, how you deal with trade unionism. It is your fault to be a trade unionist and to assume a public position, because that is also your understanding. There's no need for syndication. You've also announced it with the work bill that's about to come. Of course, you have no problem when the former Secretary-General of Public Revenue, who was supposed to be unfamiliar and above political preferences, becomes Minister of the New Democracy. But let us return to the issues of today's bill. Our rapporteur, Mr Alexiadis, has done a thorough analysis of our position. I would like, ladies and gentlemen, to take up my position on the amendment from the Ministry of Labour in relation to the ongoing pensions. I would like, Mr President-in-Office, first of all to say about the continuing deterioration of Parliament. We see it in every way. It is not possible for this long-awaited amendment - and our rapporteur has said so - to have a press release from the Ministry of Labour on Monday's seven o'clock and we Members will be taking the amendment after 24 hours! I therefore believe that these are issues which, precisely, show the Government's perception of Parliament. It is therefore clear that on the major social issue of outstanding pensions the tripleness and failure to deal with this issue has been signed by the Government of New Democracy. Here I want to say three truths, to be clear and to speak with evidence. The first truth is that the government of SYRIZA reduced the outstanding pensions it found by 70%. And because a lot has been said by the Minister - and I hope he will come at some point today to support the amendment - to the question we had about last Friday's work in relation to the rate of pensions in the SYRIZA period and in the New Democracy period, I will say the figures to stay for the Minutes of the House. In 2017, in the first year of operation of EKKA, pension awards were a hundred seventy-five thousand. These are undeniable elements. In 2018, pension awards were two hundred and six thousand. In 2019 - which in the second half of the year we have a New Democracy - starts to fall the rate and pension awards are a hundred twenty-three thousand three hundred and twenty-four pensions. And we arrived in 2020, which closed with a hundred sixty-one thousand, that is, less than the first year of ECA's operation. So that's what I'm saying to talk about. Truth two: The tripling of outstanding pensions took place in the eighteen months following the election. And not only does SYRIZA say so, although the government stubbornly did not bring the evidence to the House. Mr. Regling, who passed us in September, was the first to come to highlight the major issue and, in fact, to triple it. The figures have then deteriorated, so that we have now reached the total number of pensions - master, subsidiary and one-off - to have reached four hundred thousand. That's the reality. Let us refer to the third truth. The third truth is that the government under social pressure, under the deadlock in which thousands of pensioners live in a time of crisis, has been forced into a confession of failure in many ways, such as the private manager, who is of course not going to offer anything, because that is not the problem. The problem is to endure the EVA, to deny the government the necessary recruitment and to digitize the history, the insurance of each insured person, so that pensions can finally be awarded accelerated. We're talking about hiring the project manager. Mr. Hatzidakis was very easy, as the New Democracy used to downgrade public bodies, and spoke of an EFKA "ravalo". He did not, however, receive from SYRIZA an AFKA "rabbit". [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Obviously, Mr Brutsis, unfortunately in the previous political leadership, it should have been mentioned in the eighteen months of New Democracy's governance, but of course also in the administration of the EBRD. This amendment is now coming, which, ladies and gentlemen, is the complete confession on the one hand of failure, on the other hand, to be able to move forward with the temporary and full pensions to be paid. At the same time, they come and are actually inaugurating a EUR 384-360 allowance, lower than the OAED unemployment allowance, with which, in reality, they will be relieved to a certain extent - particularly with our retroactive - several thousand fellow citizens. But neither the problem, of course, will be solved. They will barely come to worsen it as they will guide human resources in issuing this exceptional allowance. We would also like to know what the estimate is, how many will be granted this allowance of EUR 384, when neither the civil servants nor the international pension relationships are due. So we are talking at the most about fifty thousand pensioners, that is to say only 1/4 at the moment of outstanding pensions. This is a multiple smuggling and much more when the state comes later, when we know that 20% of the decisions on retirement are rejected, to ask retrospectively for these amounts to be unduly paid. The reality is, then, that sadly the stumbling continues. Instead of just freezing the moves from the ECA at the moment, it should, if the government really wanted to do the necessary recruitment, take the necessary measures and really speed up the award of pensions. I would like to ask one final question, Mr. Undersecretary, where you are, and in charge of the General Accounting Office. By carefully reading the General Accounting Report on this issue, I personally did not understand why I might not be familiar with it and I would like you to clarify it to us, what is the assessment of the General Accounting Office concerning this measure brought by Mr Hatzidakis. What costs and what concerns or assurances does it give? Because, at least, there is none of this in the amendment and in the report from the General Accounting Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u121	Mr Christos Katsotis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Madam President. The JRC's rapporteur was fully placed in the draft law of the Ministry of Finance and in the ministerial amendments, particularly since the Minister of Sports has now arrived on the fact that the electronic ballot wants the government to control sports clubs. The same thing he wants to do in the trade unions, in the trade union movement. But you must know, gentlemen of the government, that you will not make it. The movement has experience. It will deal with everything you are trying to do with these amendments and these regulations. I would like to talk about the amendment from the Ministry of Labour. Let me first of all - Mr Hatzidakis is not here, but I must say - I have to say about the sensitivity of the Government, the Minister of Labour, Mr Hatzidakis, who yesterday called on employers to provide the couriers with appropriate protective equipment - says - helmets, gloves, waterproof protective suits so that under these weather conditions, as he says in the press release, their health and safety can be adequately guaranteed. You're ruthless, gentlemen! And you can't hear me, Minister. You're ruthless. Instead of prohibiting the exposure of workers to high-speed traffic, you also have to make payment of the wage for those who cannot, or must not, move, as is foreseen, you are coming and strengthening employers' crimes, accidents at work and occupational diseases. Employees must not be crippled, risk their own lives. With their organization in the trade unions, which so much hate business groups and their political staff, they will claim their security, their rights and stand against every benefactor of business groups. The amendment by the Ministry of Labour contains issues of outstanding pensions, as well as measures for workers and businesses affected by measures against the dispersion of the coronary and other arrangements. The government, with the amendment, wants to throw'stuffs' in the eyes' of thousands of pensioners who have been waiting for their pension. No commitment to the timeframe for awarding the final pension. The disgrace of the outstanding pensions the government comes to deal with it with another shame, the advance of the so-called 'national pension' of EUR 360 to EUR 384. And the one on predetermined terms. So, you consolidate the bad situation in the pension issue, you perpetuate the misery of outstanding pensions. You are effectively abolishing the previous arrangement, which you yourself voted on, which provides for a temporary pension for employees of 80% of the average monthly earnings of the insured person during the 12 months prior to the submission of the pension application and to freelance professionals and farmers of 70% of the average monthly income of the last 12 months of insurance. You are thinking of something worse than what is already in place, rather than speeding up the procedures for issuing pensions. Pensioners will receive an allowance without knowing when they will receive their final pension. And we ask the Minister, if he hears, will he come to answer, I imagine, when he supports his amendment, this: will the provisional version come out, then the provisional and later the final one? When do you mean when? Three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding pensions are the result of the policies followed by all previous governments and today. They were created by the tragic lack of personnel, the lack of elementary logistics, the redundancies of contract workers, and even experienced, with many years of service, the lack of training of workers, the arrogance and arrogance of the administration, as they themselves denounce, which creates a negative climate, such as their violent movements, the refusal to ensure minimum conditions for their safe work, such as heating and cleaning. The merging and unification of the departments, without any planning and programme, depreciation from the administration of knowledge and experience of workers in key cognitive objects, such as pensions, made the situation even more difficult. You are trying to deal with the problem allegedly by banning workers' mobility in the ECA, instead of taking all the measures that workers require in the body. By exploiting this situation that you have all created and maintained, you come to the privatization of other ECA services with the recent installation of the Manager project. The claim by the Ministry of Labour and the Government that this will solve the problem of outstanding pensions is the Trojan horse for the entry of private insurance companies into insurance. The position of the JRC is that what is needed for the issue of outstanding pensions is: Direct recruitment of permanent staff, with full working rights in all structures, including cleaning and storage, as well as newly made-up colleagues working in the DPRK. Significant reinforcement of staff by full-time and full-time recruitment. To be granted 80% of pensions in all outstanding pensions. To provide for the amount required for the award of outstanding applications by 31 December 2020, including the assessment of applications to be submitted in 2021, Minister, within the budget. There's no such thing as that. Completion of the digitalisation of the insurance history necessary for the digital pension. Completion of performance of the full amount due to those who have received a temporary pension. With Article 2, the Ministry of Labour changes Law 2643/1998 and prescribes that the descendants of the Resistance should be the condition that the descendants of the Resistance cease protection of all others. We consider Article 2 to be unacceptable, and we invite you to remove it. Keep it the way the law is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Madam President. The Government, in the policy of minimum levels for workers and people, which contribute 95% of the State's revenue, condemns workers who are suspended from a contract for more than a year to 500 euros a month, those who are in the 'French-Labour' programme with perhaps more, who are unemployed from EUR 200 to EUR 399, the thousands of workers excluded from the arrangements, such as one day's contracts, workers at work, workers at nightclubs, the thousands of workers exempted from the measures, such as workers from tourist and travel agencies. You do the same with the respective businesses, the tourist offices, Minister. You exclude them from the arrangements laid down in Article 4. They are protesting, they have proclaimed to you that travel agencies demand that they be treated equally. For young people who would first leave the unemployment fund for the first time this year, you require that they have eightty days of insurance and not fifty days of insurance. Where will the eighty-day insurance be found? Also, there are employees in tourism enterprises, such as tourist agencies, motorcycle rentals, car rentals and other tourist businesses, with CAR 7911, 7912, 7910, and other related businesses, operating, Minister, on national or multinational land throughout the year, while in the tourist areas they operate seasonally. This year's workers were unable to obtain a certificate of seasonality due to the change in the correlation between the number of permanent and seasonal workers provided for by the law, since the consequences of the pandemic were not taken up this year by the same number of seasonal workers. In order to join the unemployment subsidy for seasonal workers who have worked in tourists and other seasonal enterprises, but also those who have been subjected in any way unilaterally or by an employer on a job suspension in these enterprises, we are asking to be exempt from the obligation to submit a seasonal certificate and to be subsidised, such as workers in seasonal hotels. They concern workers of the TUI, first of all, the Ministry of Labour has dealt with this issue - they concern workers at airports, tax-free, car-driven workers and so on. C. JUDGMENTS In view of all this, we believe that this amendment cannot satisfy the needs of workers in the companies affected, nor does it deal with the issues with outstanding pensions. That is why we will not vote on it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement and then the Minister of Finance will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u124	Madam President, should the circle not be closed first with one of the parties?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Loverdos is not a parliamentary representative, he is a speaker. The Minister had asked to speak immediately after the special speakers. Immediately after that, it's you, Mr. Heta, it's Mr. Brutsi, and Mr. Tsakalotos has asked for it. I'm recording everything. Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Madam President. I will say a few words, ladies and gentlemen, on the main political issue identified in this draft law, and I will make a wider reference to an issue relating to economic policy, at the top of which is Mr Stagioras. On the subject of the draft law, we are talking, we will vote - we will not vote - on regulations relating to the Independent Public Income Authority, the AIA. It takes a phrase - in introductory words - 'prehistoric history'. The General Secretariat of Public Revenue was our work. There Mr. Harris Theocharis was headed through the open government procedures, the open government. At some point Mr. Theocharis was replaced. The next lady who took over the General Secretariat was wrongly prosecuted for acts which he did not do and for which he was judicially justified in the future. Anyway. And suddenly as a product of a Memorandum Obligation, SYRIZA turns this General Secretariat into an independent authority. Here today is the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Why do I think this is a top theme of the draft law? We opposed all the parliamentary methods in this choice and leave me in the few minutes that I have to explain. I am a member of the party which, in 2001, drafted five independent principles: the National Broadcasting Council, the Citizens' Counsel, etc., to which they provided all the guarantees of independence of the Constitution. The joint legislator, however, was already multiplying the independent authorities with the unconstitutionalized to reach the number - I am not sluggish today to see if the New Democracy has made increases in this - thirty to thirty one. There is no greater confession of a political system than that. Why? Because you admit that the majority principle does not count in terms of the functioning of the state, and you assign large, serious state functions to independent organisational mechanisms and people. Are there, on the open market, so many people really independent, not appointed by the governments, but in a magical way, who have all the personal guarantees for an impeccable function of the authorities of which they are headed? It's a matter. Experience proves whether they exist or do not exist. I won't stand there. But I stand by the fact that, where things make it difficult for a government, it turns its administrative non-existence and bankruptcy into an independent authority. This is the example of the AIA, the Independent Public Revenue Authority, plus something else. We're not done. Apart from this function, which has been built up by both politics and science on several occasions, there is also something else: the conversion of the General Secretariat into an independent authority was also a Memorandum of Understanding, on the basis of the third inappropriate memorandum, so that the control of its operation does not belong to the persons whose powers are its bodies, namely its head and the other institutions, but that there is a committee to monitor its activities, where there is also a essentially appointed media, by creditors. That was the policy of a government that said too much but did the opposite of the SYRIZA government. But about eighteen - nineteen months of New Democracy's governance, that does not change. It remains the same policy that concerns the same institution, the same practice and the same method that is evicted from a supreme attitude of lenders, a derivative of the first five months or six months of the SYRIZA government. We had had to do a lot, and we had to do it or we had to do it. I, personally, did most of what I did, not all of it, did it because I believed it. But, from saying the opposite and doing the opposite, there is a huge distance that has been politically appreciated and finally valued with elections. But why doesn't the New Democracy change that? Does she like this independent authority? Is the authority which receives public revenue, which oversees the collection of public revenue, which produces policies? If he's not the core of a state government policy, who is he? I consider this policy to be a picture of bankruptcy, and I am tabling it. I shall refer for half a minute to the specific issues of the draft law. I want Rule 4(5) to be taken care of, where Parliament's Scientific Service makes you an observation about lawyers and Ice. Lawyers call me Ice Ice, as wage developments are placed in this independent authority, they produce a problem. It is not discretionary for each government to produce such an unchanging situation, i.e. a situation of a lawyer, a lawyer, but a civil servant of the AACC. I would ask you very much to take care of this. Look at the opinion of the Scientific Agency. Maybe you should help. In the seconds that I have, Mr President, and honourable Members, I would like to say that on Monday I had a debate on the basis of a timely question about the liquidity provided by banks to the market, which I had done to Mr Staikoura. Mr. Zavvos answered me. Anyone who listens to my intervention will do well to read what I asked and what a Minister for Consensual, who comes to this House, gives evidence and that honour. What did he say to me, however, about the closure of his dentistry, where I was unable to answer it? I appreciate him. I'll talk a little scorchy. Don't get me wrong where he hears me. We'll have a chance to talk to you in the House. He said that it should be noted that a number of enterprises are not bankable, i.e. they cannot, do not have the criteria for borrowing or strengthening them. The phrase refers to 'att-able', i.e. to the unscrupulous, because the number is enormous. The number of enterprises requested but failed to aid is not small. I do not want to make rough calculations now, but on the basis of the answers given to me and others that have been given to colleagues, companies that have not been strengthened at this very difficult time are approaching the four hundred thousand or even surpassing them. They have taken no form of aid, that is, they have not benefited either from returning an advance or not collecting their obligations towards the State, so that I can express myself more correctly. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Therefore, it cannot, with this classification of companies in bankable and not be viewed as hundreds of thousands of companies in a country where most companies, 77%, are not large, are not even middle-sized, zombies. Because the distinction made throughout Europe and, of course, by the European Central Bank with regard to the companies that are aided in the pandemic is the companies that need to be strengthened and zombies, on the other hand, that is, those companies that must not be strengthened, because they are consuming money for a political liquidity, while they are not worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u127	Mr Colleague, you will allow me to tell you that you need to complete it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u128	I'm closed, Madam President. It is not right to separate and because, Minister for Economic Affairs, poverty and unemployment - after the end of the pandemic, the problems facing our country will be at least those - I would ask you to bear in mind - I do not know whether universal, horizontal policies can thrive on this issue - that there is a lot of people in the market where State aid is needed. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, too. I will give the floor for five minutes now to the Deputy Minister of Sports, Mr Aygeakis, to be placed on the amendment he has tabled. Here, Mr. Ausgeakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, this particular provision we are bringing brings sport to the time of the use of modern means of technology, information and communication. The difficulties and limitations we face in the battle with the pandemic give us the opportunity to develop the country's sporting structure and in the digital direction, to modernise it in this area as part of our reform policy. We are enabling sports bodies of all levels - clubs, associations, federations - to convene general assemblies and henceforth to hold elections, using secure digital media. So basically - and keep this up, it is also an answer to a number of very important reports that I read today - we have three options for convening general meetings and elections. First option: In the context of Law 2725/1999, the general assembly and the archaeology with the physical presence of all in the same space, i.e. in the classic way, are allowed to take place. Secondly, the general assembly and the archaeology are at the same time allowed to take place in local federations. This alternative proposal of the decentralised procedure was made by Article 7 of Law 4726/2020 last September. Thirdly, we now provide a third alternative to sporting bodies, the electronic vote. We are therefore giving immediate solutions to the problems that arise and we are adapting to the new data created by the pandemic. The current situation, with measures to prevent the spread of the coronary, which do not allow many people to be gathered in the same area, gives us the most appropriate opportunity, the most appropriate one - if you allow me on sporting terms - to follow the points of time and to establish the possibility of introducing new technologies into the internal functioning of sports organisations, with strict criteria, but with transparent procedures, both in order, but also in economic and, above all, in order to ensure the integrity, secrecy and the integrity of the votes, which are the core of democratic operation. After all, transparency and democracy are the main elements of the evolving sport reform that we are taking a step - a step from the day we took over the country's governance. As we have predicted in our laws, Law No.4639/2019, Law No.4726/2020 for antiquities and not only sports players, there are aimed at the most bright and modern, worthy of our history, environment for our new generation of athletes, at the best day of our sport. I would therefore like to make it clear to everyone concerned and to all political groups that the elections of the federations must be held by 31 March. I should like to point out that the elections are not likely to be further extended due to the particular nature that we are going through months of Olympic preparation for the summer games in Tokyo, which, of course, we all hope will be conducted properly. However, I would like to make it clear that at the end of March the administrations of sports federations are being completed. There will be no further extension. In case, therefore, an alternative to the electronic vote is chosen by the outgoing federations, it is planned to be conducted using the “ZEE” information system of the National Infrastructure of Technology and Research, “ENTERPRISE S.A.”. The "ZIFS" system has the guarantee of the Ministry of Digital Governance, which we warmly thank, as well as the Minister responsible for our impeccable cooperation. The ‘ZEUS’ system is based on internationally recognised technological standards for electronic voting, which guarantee and ensure the integrity and confidentiality of the electoral process. In addition, in order to provide sufficient time for the Committees to register candidates in the EMI system in good time, and to prepare them better, the first is the compulsory declaration of nominations at least five days before the elections, unless the statutes concerned provide for a longer period, in which case the period of the Statute shall apply. In other words, we respect the federations' statutes, if they of course provide for more time. Secondly, especially for the digital elections, there will be a three-member committee composed only of lawyers, a president of lawyers this year or Aryo Igo. This committee will be appointed twenty days before the archivisms by the Bar Association in the region of which the sports body concerned has its seat, at its request, which should be submitted to the Bar Association twenty-five days before the elections. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would like two more minutes, Madam President. The twenty-day period is necessary for the training of the Electoral Committee, according to what has been requested by the relevant Ministry, in the use of the ZEI system, but also in the preparation of the vote, the registration of candidates, voters, other items on the agenda, on which the vote will take place. The provision contains two authorising provisions: First, an authorisation for an MSG of the Minister responsible for sport and the competent digital governance, which will specify the details of any issue necessary for the conduct of electronic general meetings, for the archaeology and for the completion of the respective votes. Secondly, a second excellent one to the Deputy Minister of Sports, which is only valid for this year and only for this time, so that, if necessary, ten days at most, the period within which federal elections can take place can be held, if this is necessary for the smooth completion of the elections in question. It is also made clear, ladies and gentlemen, that these arrangements on the possibility of holding antiquities and by digital means take precedence over the provisions contained in the statutes of sporting organisations and provide for the conduct of antiquities only in the traditional way, which presupposes and de facto the physical presence in the same area of members or representatives of their members. Thus, they will avoid any litigation, which might seek to cancel the antiquities carried out by digital means, because the statutes for elections would have been violated only in the traditional way. We also give the federations which have already announced and planned archaeology - if they so wish - to postpone them by decision of their statutes for dates earlier than 31-32021, but which will be appropriate and appropriate in order to comply with the deadlines for the digital elections I have discussed earlier. We don't oblige anyone. It is at the discretion of outgoing administrations. I repeat it for a pluralist time. At the same time, we regulate two more loose ends: firstly, time is extended for the conduct of antiquities in sports associations until 30-6-2021. The terms of office of their statutes shall be extended for the same period. This extension was deemed necessary in order to avoid the administrative burden that would entail for the national network of infrastructure, technology and research and the obligation to train in the use of the 'ZEUS' system of a very short period of time - just over a month - so that the committees responsible for these antiquities and sports associations can be informed and do their job properly and in good time for the associations of forty-nine sports federations. I would like to stress here that elections in sports associations also naturally concern associations in football. We make it clear that they will only have the right to participate legally and actively amateur sports clubs, which are registered in the General Secretariat of Sports or registered until the date of the election of associations. Amateur football is no exception. We call on the football clubs that have not yet made their application, their registration, to settle. They must also understand that the latter are left in order. We're close to every single factor fighting under highly confessed difficult conditions to house his union. I understand the discomfort of some 'unionists', but we collect from the basis of amateur football in our dialogue with them the need, acceptance of the effort to make transparency, household and order. No more captain's feathers and feathers some people think they own for a while. Secondly, it is laid down that the plenary session of the administration of the Hellenic Paralympic Committee will take place between 15 and 30 October 2021, due to the unforeseen - due to the Coronovirus pandemic - deferral of the 2020 Paralympic Games for a whole year. In the event of the cancellation of the Paralympic Games, due to pandemic again, it will emerge within 30 days of the date of the official announcement by the International Paralympic Committee for their cancellation. The rules currently in force provided that the members of the EIA were four years old, identical to the Olympic cycle. Here it caused a gap following the postponement of the Tokyo Paralympic Games of 2020 last summer. The current composition of the EIA Plenary Session expires in February, but it has not been possible until now - for the well-known reasons - to take place in the federations, from which their representatives would also come to the administration of the EIA. The term of office of the members of the current Plenary Assembly, elected or appointed after the 2016 Rio Paralympic Games, is therefore extended until a new administration has emerged. As you can see, we are aiming to ensure that there is no administrative gap in the Greek Paralympic Committee, but also not to disturb the preparation of our athletes who will take part in the Tokyo Paralympic Games, which is already under way. Ladies and gentlemen, we are taking another step in sports reform with this provision. We are adapting to the needs and challenges of the time, and we are creating with complete security an even secure, impregnable and alternative system for the uninterrupted democratic functioning of sports organisations. Sports at the forefront. In conclusion, I would stress that in the draft law which is already in consultation, we provide, among other things, for an extension until 31 August, in order for all sporting associations to be included in the register of the General Secretariat of Sports so that they can make use of sports facilities throughout the country, either those which are supervised by the Ministry of Sports or those which belong to the first and second levels of local self-government. I would remind you that Article 3 of Law 4726/2020 stipulates that a sports club which is not registered in the GAA register will not be able to use sports facilities belonging to bodies supervised by the General Secretariat of Sports. Also, under Article 66 of Law 4735/20, it was foreseen that a sports club not registered in the GAA register again would not be able to use sports facilities belonging to OTAs (a) and (b) degrees. But we want all the unions to be legitimized. We do not want to rule out anyone at all. Instead, we want to have order and transparency throughout the sporting structure. We want households in sport and we help with all our powers to legalise as many sporting amateur unions as possible. That is why we provide for the specific extension of a few months even until 31 August of the year that we are spending, so that clubs may be able to use sports facilities belonging to either LAGs (a) and (b) grades or to the General Secretariat of Sports. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Minister. You made a regular speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u132	Madam President, please, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u133	Here you go, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u134	The amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u135	Will you talk about the amendment now? You have the floor later, that's why I'm saying it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u136	The Minister's leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u137	Please have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u138	Yeah, yeah, for two minutes. I'm not going to talk about it later. We have the pleasure of having Mr Aegeanakis here, and I would like to ask him this: Since he is already in your consultation of your own bill, and the consultation ends on 26 February, why are you bringing this up today? So, what is it important that Mr Stakoura's bill and this sports intervention should come as soon as, I repeat, there is a consultation which ends on 26 February? You're bringing in a bill. I am pleased when people in charge of sport know of sport, such as you, and use terminologies, such as the one you said 'I took it all'. I'll tell you that you've taken it, but you've still made a big foul here, Mr. Aygeakis, to talk to me on the same terminology. You are bringing an amendment and you are trying to do what you did with the Committee on Professional Sport a few months ago, if you remember, where you actually appointed two of your own people. You know the result of this case. Two teams have been afflicted too much in court. They were acquitted, of course, but what would they do with it? One team, Xanthi, already plays in Second National and PAOK, for example, lost the championship. They could be some other groups, but in this case they are. So the result counts. Two teams suffered a great deal of damage. What does anyone else do about being vindicated by the courts and finally being innocent? They've done damage. So you are trying, and now - it is our view - as you have checked the Committee on Professional Sport, to check the federations. You said twice 'we respect the association statutes', you said 'in accordance with the association statutes'. You respect the statutes of unions, but at the same time you are destroying them. You are trying to dismantle the federations and unions' statutes at the same time as you claim to respect them. And the question is how does that happen? The federations have a statute on the basis of which they operate, have their general assemblies, votes and go by. And now you come in a strange way to abolish these statutes at the same time as you say you respect them. We're talking about a control and a manipulation of federations. You're using the coronary, you're talking about general conventions and electronic voting. As far as I know, sport law - and I am closing with it, Madam President - expressly prohibits voting with or with proxy. They only become the natural presence of union members. These from us, Mr. Ausgeakis. You should see the whole federations. They're against it. Humiliate them a little. I am not saying that there are no bad texts in the field of sport, federations, those who want to control them. But let us resolve them democratically and not thus legitimise paradoxical modes of intervention and an unrelated bill, as is the case today. Every thing in his time. There's a bill of yours, as I told you a moment ago. So if you respect the federations' statutes, the federations must apply them. Don't be violently ruined. Don't fuck up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Katrinis asked for the floor from the Change Movement for the same reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u140	Madam President, I am afraid Mr Augias does not claim a prize of parliamentary correctness. It appears in this Chamber with a periodicity of one in three, one in four bills with a number of emblems, where it is common to extend deadlines, to change procedures, when he says he is preparing a bill that will regulate all these details. It follows this practice that I think is not the best possible. What's he doing now? It abolishes the commissions it has set up by its own bill, abolishes the statutes of federations, sets a suffocating deadline, overthrowing electoral procedures, if I am not mistaken, at least ten federations that have already been proclaimed and launched in a year which, even if the consequences of the pandemic overthrow it, is a year of Olympic preparation. So a comprehensive design is overthrown. And it defines a unique electronic platform, which passes through the process it brings into the arrangement today, when the federations are able to use the ILO platform. I do not understand why it does not give this possibility and it must all go through Mr Aygeakis' platform, in fact, as he says, with adequate electoral results and not full guarantees of the system and the result. I fear that all these 'initial initiatives' by Mr Aygaki show an anguish about the results of the federations' elections, perhaps greater than the one a Minister should have. And because we hear too many complaints from the federations about direct, indirect, political, legislative, various interventions from the Ministry of Sport, Madam President, if she is interested in being self-sufficient in sport and respecting the statutes of federations, or if everything goes to the competence of Mr Aegakis, then she must determine whether she wants the administrations of the federations so that we do not have any time-consuming and time-consuming procedures in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor and I would ask you to be brief this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u142	Madam President, I will try to be as brief as possible. Dear Mr Katrin, let us make it clear that it is not an Ausgarian platform. First of all, it is not my property and secondly, it does not belong to the Ministry of Sport, we have absolutely no contact. It is the platform that belongs to the Ministry of Digital Governance. So, you realize we have absolutely no contact. What exactly is this platform? I'll tell you two words for you to be informed, because you seem to be uninformed. The “ZEEA” digital poll is an information system created in 2012 and helps us carry out the election process in a digital way. Both the preparation of the vote by the holding authority and the submission of the vote by the voters are remote from the Internet. It can be exploited by any interested party who wishes to organise elections. It is supported by the National Network of Infrastructure, Technology and Research, which is one of the largest public technological bodies in our country, has been operating since 1998 and is supervised by the Ministry of Digital Governance. What has the "ZEUS" platform done to date? To date it has served more than eight hundred thirty votes and more than two hundred thirty thousand voters, such as in Greek universities, athletes and students, as well as other bodies, organizations, commercial and tourist businesses and individuals. Two things relating to the credibility and the security of a proper procedure: firstly, the encryption of votes; secondly, the anonymous mixing of encrypted lists. One more thing. You said there was a natural presence. But here too, a natural presence is needed through the TAXISNET system. And one simple thing is that we do not oblige, but we do give an alternative. And if we were to bring this together with our bill, which is under consultation on the basis of tight dates, would actually create the unprecedented federations because of the pandemic - although we would very much like the situation in our country to be better - and it would have been cancelled or postponed to hold the elections. We want to give all the options. We want to digitize, modernise the Ministry of Sports at all levels. We also create this alternative, we give outgoing administrations the right to decide what they see as serving them better. Is the natural presence best served by them, by voting on local associations, if they have electronic voting through the state platform, which is absolutely reliable and improper? All the other scenarios I read in party announcements are at least tragic. So let us be more sensitive and, above all, more careful when discussing pandemic issues. We have no reason to stop anyone from making elections, as he knew. On the other hand, however, we must, as a state, also create conditions so that if they decide to change their methods, change the process and use a technology that is secured and can do so on specific terms and procedures. Within the provision provided for in Part II, we are clearing up the landscape so that there are no conflicts and problems if the statutes of some federations do not provide for it. We are quite clear and very clear and, above all, very fast, because we are in line with the conditions created by the pandemic and not, of course, with something which was in our hands and which was not one, two, three, five, ten months earlier. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Madam President. I shall begin with an issue that has been raised outside the core of the bill by Mr Loverdos, to support business. I think that this government has shown that it is doing its best, in the context of the country's budgetary and cash possibilities, by constantly creating room for cash and finance, to strengthen businesses, especially small and micro-enterprises. For example, to date we have given EUR 6.7 billion in over five hundred two thousand and six businesses. Half an hour ago, 162 million euros were credited to eleven thousand seven hundred five-five-seven companies. So compare EUR 6.7 billion to date, TEIX guarantee but EUR 7.1 billion, cover for insurance contributions, reduction of insurance contributions, abolition of solidarity levy, suspension of tax and credit obligations, cover for rents, as I will say shortly - because I will also support the amendment so that I do not continue to take the floor - a bridge programme that will come for businesses, cover fixed costs in the context of the country's budgetary possibilities, do not pay tax, which has been done last year, as you well remember. So, with this grid of measures, we prove that we are here to help businesses, to reduce the economic and social costs of the health crisis as far as possible. And of course we continue and extend unemployment benefits, we have paid EUR 2,9 billion to a million of seven hundred employees, and we have paid and paid a full-time retrospectively two million four hundred thousand pensioners and eighty-eight thousand civil servants. In short the Ministry of Finance, the Greek Government, as it owed, in this crisis, the unprecedented crisis, lifts the burden of the entire Greek economy and society on its backs. I'm going back to the nucleus of the bill. The draft law we are debating today, along with the amendment that I will be supporting, is another proof that the government is starting structural changes, that it is facing the country's time-consuming problems, that it is adopting incentives to attract investment and that it implements policies to tackle the unprecedented health crisis. In particular, the Ministry of Finance, under the guidance of the relevant State Secretary, whom I would like to thank, introduces the new salary for the staff of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which was drawn up on a proposal from the Authority, but, of course, with additions, corrections, adjustments, which will also be demonstrated in the legal corrections that will soon be made to your knowledge. I would like to tell you that these legislative differences, in substance provisions incorporate concerns that have been raised during the debate in the committee by parties of opposition and by bodies. But it goes very much, especially the Qualified Opposition to talk about it, and I'll be back in a little while. The introduction of a modern pay system in relation to the work, the responsibilities and the effectiveness of each ADP employee, taking into account best international practices, is an important section. Our first concern is to strengthen the efficiency of the tax authority, through a stimulus of these productivity, that is to say at the outset, to improve working conditions, to the quality of the services provided, always for the benefit of the social system as a whole. We lay the foundations for a tax authority that complements and strengthens the achievement of the objectives of the economic policy pursued, in the long term creating a framework for tax compliance. The provisions of this draft law define the monthly regular salaries of ADP officials as the total of basic salaries, allowances, benefits, special fees and personal disputes. Officials shall be ranked in steps of basic wages and in grades of employment. The time and the way in which pay scales are matured for the salary development of employees shall be defined. A system of promoted wage developments is introduced in an effort to link evolution, not only with duty time, but also with the evaluation of staff. Evaluation not in words, in practice. A special remuneration shall be granted, which shall be inextricably linked to the participation of each staff member in the annual evaluation. And here are the objections of the workers, wherever I shall come back. The allowance shall be fixed for work in excess of compulsory working hours, the allowance for work to be supplemented by compulsory working hours and the possibility of an increase in afternoon overtime. The award of target awards is established on an annual basis, subject to the overriding objectives and participation of officials in the annual evaluation process. The relevant provisions are amended and supplemented with regard to the criteria for selecting heads of the ADA, the compulsory participation of the heads of assessment - so far I have said the word for evaluation - and the procedure for introducing new criteria into the rating system. It is planned to recruit staff with a fixed-term employment relationship for the rapid implementation of public investment reform programmes and projects financed by the recovery and resilience fund. These are the main provisions of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the ADP's new salary has certain features. Firstly, it is social law, as the single wage is maintained in full on the basis of seniority and education, as is currently the case for the rest of the public. Secondly, it is innovative as ADI is the public body model that introduces outlines of positions, including different knowledge and skills for each employee according to his or her position. The remuneration will, in fact, be linked to the staff member's employment in specific duties. Thirdly, it is rational, as it deals with the distortion of the personal difference, by means of a special fee. In this way, it leads to a payroll between new entrants and new entrants who already receive personal differences, putting an end to a fixed and fair demand for those appointed or transferred to the ADP. Fourthly, it is rewarding because the total remuneration of officials will now be pensionable. Fifthly, it is modern as an incentive to achieve targets is institutionalised by a specific procedure for the reward of staff to achieve the objectives of the principle. Sixth, it is competitive as new gains are shaped at levels that the market appreciates the required knowledge and skills for every job, but given the economic conditions and budgetary constraints of the country. And finally, it is a pragmatic one since evaluation is a key prerequisite for the new wage regime. It rewards the good, efficient, productive employees, and we also create an environment for the development of those who follow. Ladies and gentlemen, on this point I would like to make a comment on the criticism of the Civilian Vice-President. That is the choice of the government and we legislate. Today's Qualified Opposition as a government has committed what has it promised to do? In the 2017 Memorandum of Understandings - and I will table them in the Minutes - there were clear country commitments to both the tax authority and the introduction of a rating and salary based on the assessment of the performance of the officials of the authority on 2 May 2017. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The months have passed, the years have passed. It says today that the Qualified Opposition has always believed in evaluation, but we have seen nothing. Commitments that were repeated even later and arrived in February 2019, where the commitments for an evaluation, for a salary, are repeated, for a rating. These were all commitments until February 2019. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I come to say, since there were some commitments from the government at the time, between May 2017 and May 2019, what have you been doing? What did you bring to the House? What text have you discussed with the institutions within and outside memorials? You have made commitments that have never been made by them, that is, by you signed them and never implemented them. Really, for more than two years, you still haven't been able to make it or did you not know what you signed? And because I listen constantly to you say that you are in favour of evaluation and you had the opportunity to do so here as you committed yourself, why didn't you? The politician is judged in deeds and not in words. We are, therefore, judged why we dared and brought a bill which we support as the Ministry of Finance. So it would be nice if you didn't have at least a short memory. You also spoke of a generalised reaction and suggested even the withdrawal of the bill. You said that ours don't support either. I have here the announcement of the Democratic Independent Movement of Tax Workers. I guess you've read it. He says: "We are positive at the start of the bill. The draft law implements several things...". Let us not repeat them, I mentioned them before. It indeed raises concerns about the question of evaluation as a prerequisite for the granting of a special remuneration. We have a different view and we legislate. However, the concerns are about evaluation and about whether this should be extended to other bodies. You said that for the first time they are all across the street, and in the past there have never been reactions. I'm sorry, have you forgotten the mobilisations and exits of 2017 and 2018? On 29 August 2017, ‘Advisors shall respond to the assessment’. Who was that government then? By correspondence: ‘The Ministry of Finance tax protest for the assessment’. The evaluation you were committed for, but you did not. I'm filing it in the Minutes. You said about the ADED. Really, when did ADED send for evaluation? For your days. I'm tabling this in the Minutes and that. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Have you forgotten all this? You forgot that for your day there were most of the reactions for what you were committed to, but you never did? The truth is that the ADP's new salary could have come earlier. When you see in the assessment of the country of November 2019, in which, in fact, it is the current government, it says, starting with the paragraph: “With the accumulation of many long delays in the past...”, in fact, confirms that for two and a half years you have committed to bringing something you have never brought, like many other bills. And of course repeats the three classic words accompanying all the texts you signed since 2017: Grading, Remuneration and Performance Assessment. So you were committed both for ratings and for payroll and performance-based evaluation. And this government brings it on its own initiative. Unfortunately, however, the pandemic did not allow us to bring it in earlier. She overthrowded the design, because the evaluation we wanted to connect to the new pay regime. We call on the officials to take part in the evaluation as a prerequisite for the new wage and not for the new wage to be the delear to participate those who want to participate, whenever they want to be assessed. However, nothing is entered in the budget as equivalent, especially when we talk about wage benefits, because I hear from other opposition parties to support - somewhere he went to imply it, and the Chief of Officerial Opposition today, but no other speaker repeated it, and it makes sense - that we are supposedly legislating for the few. It is clear here and they know very well, and especially the rapporteur for Officerial Vice-Presidents, that I have an annual expenditure, an increase, for the new ADP wage, which concerns the many and not the few. And you know that very well. In this case, however, we expect and expect tax revenue to increase, better targeting of controls, faster returns, more qualitative and more direct service to taxpayers. The evaluation of all of us is necessary in a modern rule of law and dignity. In this case, it may obviously not only be exhausted to the staff of the AIA, but it must also be extended to its administration. Let me remind you what we didn't do. Let us see a little how we have chosen - the alleged one - to carry out his duties with regard to the renewal of the AACC's contract? For the first time, we did not follow the swamped but included a minimum framework of qualitative and quantitative objectives for the commander: in the field of tax evasion with recovery targets and, of course, with controls. In the area of smuggling by introducing electronic payments, the installation of systems linked to tax administration, the supply of means of prosecution and controls. In the area of overdue receipts. In the field of upgrading services to citizens with an open system for determining the taxable value of land and buildings through the full electronicisation of registries and procedures. In the field of upgrading of tax administration systems by automation of procedures, processing of information and netting of claims and refunds. In the field of human resources through the development of a position-level targeting system. We set targets for the commander of the ADP. That was not what the previous government had done. They heard opinions on concentration and over-concentration of powers in one person, the Commander of ASE, and they heard these from SYRIZA, who, as all parties have told you, not only the government majority but all parties, you brought ADI in 2015 and simply your objection is that it is in the first rule of SYRIZA rather than in the second. This is essentially the strong dialogue between the members of the Officerial Response. In other words, you have implemented policies that you are fighting today and committed to implementing other policies that you are currently ignoring. The delusionals are keeping you well. Ladies and gentlemen, the new salary marks a change in culture. It promotes the productivity and distribution of human resources, aligns the achievement of the ADP's strategic and operational objectives with the personal objectives of its people, serves a rating system that incorporates the appropriate human in the appropriate place and the achievement of objectives is now the quality of the workers who become the depositaries of the authorities of a modern tax authority. The Ministry of Finance's vision is to build a relationship of confidence and credibility with the citizens and social as a whole. It is up to us to succeed consistently, politically and hard work. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law, to close this chapter, is also accompanied by a long-term amendment by the Ministry of Finance with important provisions. You will allow me to mention diagonals on the most important of them: firstly, they are exempted for the month of March, as was the case for the months of January and February, from the obligation to pay a total salary for certain undertakings for which exceptional measures have been taken to suspend or ban the operation for preventive or repressive reasons relating to the coronary. Secondly, I sincerely want to thank the Secretary-General and the Secretary-General for Tax Policy for this second time - and this is where I should like to thank the public - and I sincerely want to thank the relevant Secretary-General and the Secretary-General for Taxation - from the registering books of the relevant land services and the public does not present any rights under conditions for real estate - you hear - which were expropriated in 1924 in favour of the Municipality of Serres for firefighting, they were incorporated as a former forest in the town plan and are in the approved 1963 rhetoric plan of the settlement of Neos Panteleimonas Pieria and located within the approved 1894 rhetoric plan in Malesina restitution toismopathies. If you take into account what we have recently discussed about Saronida, you realise that this government is coming safely and consistently to resolve issues and problems for decades. And like I said last time in the House, no government dared to do that. And you who were in the government and complained, because you did not go ahead. That was also the result of the debate with the mayors at that time. We are therefore finding a solution safely and rationally to problems that have affected these regions for decades. For example, in Malesina, the area is demarcated within the approved Royal Decree of 1894. The question, although pre-existing, came to the surface at the beginning of the realisation, as the State raised property rights in the property register, real estate which was attributed to the then beneficiaries because of the earthquake. As a result, the local residents were either at risk of being forced to claim their property against the public in the courts, who were nevertheless entitled to the Stock Exchange, or of losing it for the purposes of residents who were not entitled to it. By this provision, which is in the knowledge and colleagues of the Civilian Representation Officer, a definitive end is given to the claims made by the public for residents who have been entitled to the register and a specific procedure is defined, according to which those who have not been vitiated by the Register will be able to deposit relevant legal documents for evaluation on a specific committee set up for that purpose in order to examine and decide on all the remaining cases within 2021. Thirdly, the procedures and required documentation for the registration and residence of certified valuers in the Register of Certified Estimates maintained in the Ministry of Finance are simplified, clarified and standardised. A more rapid receipt, a better evaluation and a direct audit of supporting documents along with the creation of a digital platform for the submission of supporting documents will lead, on the one hand, to a significant improvement in the public service provided and, on the other, to the reliability of the register whose use is increasing over time. In the Register of Certified Estimates, a total of eight hundred forty-five certified valuers, natural and legal persons who compile estimates relating to public property and public interest issues are registered. It is therefore a key priority to ensure the reliability of the Certified Estimates Register. The Government, with this legislative initiative, shields the quality of the services provided and helps to strengthen the sense of trust among the citizens. Fourthly and lastly, under the guidance of the Secretary-General, Mr Kalyvas - which I would like to thank for - the legislative framework for providing tax incentives for attracting to Greece natural persons with a tax residence abroad. It is recalled that with successive legislation from December 2019 until now, significant incentives are provided for the transfer of the tax residence to Greece of natural persons investing in Greece, foreign pensioners and workers, with great interest to date. At some point I can make you an update of the evidence. In particular, I would remind you that the principle was made by Law 4646/2019, which introduced into our country the institution of the resident non-resident, the non-dom, to attract tax residents from abroad who make significant investments in Greece, benefiting from an alternative tax regime for their global income. Then followed by Law 4714/2020, which extended the alternative income tax to pensioners abroad who carry their tax home to our home country. In addition, with Law 4758/2020, tax incentives were introduced to attract foreign workers and self-employed Greeks who left our country during the economic crisis to transfer the tax home and to engage in professional activities in Greece. Today, with the provision of the amendment, we are introducing incentives for the creation of companies for the management of family property, familyly offices. The aim is to create a transparent and delimited framework that responds to the needs of natural persons with fiscal residence in Greece, to deal with all bureaucratic cases relating to their tax residence in Greece, taking into account best international tax practices in relation to the management of financial and investment flows and family property. It is worth noting that these companies - and I conclude, Madam President, in two minutes - will not be able to pursue their commercial activities and their relative achievement of profits, while being subject to an income tax with the tax rate of companies that are currently 24%. In particular, tax incentives are provided for the establishment and operation of these companies in Greece, supplementing the relevant legal framework of the Income Tax Code. These incentives consist in a special way of determining their taxable income on the basis of the costs they bear in analogous to those already in force for commercial and industrial companies under the 1967 Act, following international standards of the OECD and the principles of good tax governance. In addition, the proposed arrangement is expected to function in addition to attracting more natural persons with a tax residence abroad and will apply to all natural persons who are already or become tax residents of Greece in application of texts or specific provisions. At the same time, indirect multiplier benefits are expected for our country, such as stimulation of the economy and strengthening employment through workers in special family property management companies. With the new legislative initiative, the government shows that even within the vortex of the health crisis, it continues to operate with perceptiveness and determination by completing structural changes that modernise the legislative framework for attracting investment and investors in our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Minister, you have five minutes for your amendment. Here, Mr. Hatzidakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u146	I would simply suggest, Madam President, that Mr Chakalotos speak. Mr Tsakalotto, I suggest that you speak, I say to the President, because man has a problem, he has to do a physiotherapy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u147	It has been discussed before, I think, between them. There is no problem with the Bureau, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u148	The right thing to do is give him all our place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u149	I, Madam President, did not know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u150	I, at least, grant mine, without any consideration for the criticism Mr Chakalotos will then make.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u151	Madam President, I have no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u152	I thought you had an understanding, Mr. Colleague, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u153	Good. So Mr. Chakalotos is coming to talk. Thank you very much, Minister, for your concession. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Madam President. Thank you both for this concession. I read: "A proclaimed bad weather - and not so intense - proved to be enough to show again the frugality of the state mechanism. Questions of course. Who is to blame that the announced snowfall has become a cause for our country's most important route, linking northern and southern Greece? Why has the government slipped again to face a normal bad weather? The answer is a word: Incapacity." This, ladies and gentlemen, is not a SYRIZA popular announcement, it is New Democracy in 2017. What exactly do you claim? You claim that at the time you plundered and made such announcements, but now you've seen the light and you've changed and you don't make such announcements? That if the state were in 2017, where is it now, would the road not be closed? That the state at last does not need any new staff in civil protection, does it not need any new staff in hospitals, in public transport? And I understand that, Mr. Hatzidakis, not even to the FBI. Only a few managers need to get the pensions out faster. How many times have you folklore in our own government for both the Prespes and the streets and for a seasonal flu, where you asked for the resignation of Mr. Xanthos, when twenty people had been killed? It was a tragedy, but less than the average of the previous years. How many times have you folk and now do you think that we plunder you when we opposition you? For the ultimate state, do you think you shouldn't have come here and say an apology for what the world has been pulling around in the last twenty-four, thirty-six hours? Don't you have anything to say? Is everything all right? I'm impressed. I'm really impressed. For the bill before us, despite what Mr Stakoras said, all the institutions disagreed. It may be wrong for operators, but it says something if everyone disagrees, somehow you have to interpret it. Are there any reasonable reviews? But even if they're not reasonable, are the criticisms that exist due to lack of trust? Do workers and workers feel that it will not be fair for the new system, that it will not be transparent, that it will be a man's authority, and that is why they do not trust these changes and therefore discuss with them, to see how this can be solved? You weren't, Mr. Stakoura, in committee. I have said one example, to say it again, so that you too can hear it. At the end of the 19th century and the beginning of the 20th century, business, factories escaped and said they didn't want to pay the piece. Why? Because it has emerged that when someone is paid with the track, that is, individual, cooperation fails. It's a machine, we both have the machine, and I'm obviously not gonna help you when you get into trouble or I'm gonna give you my know-how, because I want to do more of what you guys do. And there's a great literature on this subject. You can read at Harvard Business Review a very long discussion about problems when there is a payment with the track. So, apart from competition, we also need cooperation to find the right balance between competition and cooperation, how much more so when the debate is not about a factory, when it is about the public sector, which is the most place we would like there to be cooperation, a sense of public service, a sense of the common project. First of all, Mr Staikoura, you were not the first to enter into a contract with Mr Pittsili with targets for revenue and with objectives for everything you said - look at the Minutes, you will find it - but that is not the basic one. The main thing is that there was an institutional framework in the public sector both for the evaluation of employees and for the placement or selection of heads and for a wage development. And you come to what applies to all the state and legislate about the AIA, a principle that says that by choice of the commander, all of this can change. And not to be fooled, where is the lack of confidence - I am not talking about Mr Pittsilis, it is clear to us that it is not a matter of Mr Pitsili, but of the commander - what is the fear of the officials? It's that employees we like we'll put them in a position where they're highly rated and employees who either don't like them or are in this position and they're not excellent, they're not doing our job, we're going to take them to another job with less scored, less waged. I say we have a serious conversation about these. This morning and last week Alexis Tsipras, our President, had made a proposal for ERT, which says what happened, happened. We obviously consider that you are dealing with ERT in a very bad way. You think we made it worse. And it says our President, although I have this view, that we should set a line and see how consensusally there can be an administration at the ERT, which has the confidence of the majority of the House. You didn't answer. I'm saying something like that about AIA. Watch out. I'm not in general consent. I am not saying, in other words, that the parties in this House can find them for work or for privatisation or for development priorities or how to deal with the environment. I think there's a gap between us. But for the AIA, could we not have a similar proposal? There is, for example, the model of the Parliament's Budget Office with executives who will monitor how the ADA operates, if the fear of opacity and arbitraryness is excessive, if there is a basis, there is no basis. We could have this conversation. And here, however, we have a difference, and it seems in the way you legislate. We and the AIAD and the HFS throughout the negotiation with the institutions, as you rightly said, Mr Staikora, did not inspire what the institutions wanted, this bill that you downloaded, which is why we have been delayed. The most serious thing, however, is that because the institutions and you are coming with an ideology and analysis of an old cutting, the golden age of neoliberalism that the only problem of arbitrariness, corruption comes from the government and must therefore be protected against the politicisation that the institutions, the AIAD, the TDID, the CFD, do not see and the institutions did not see that the risk in these institutions is not just from the government, it is also from private interests. The great theory of the neoclassical tradition of public selection has a blind spot. It does not see, in other words, that to an independent authority which you have properly prevented the Minister from intervening in everyday practice, you leave it open to private interests, as Mr Aeggeakis said, and I will use it, to play ball. And that's a big difference. That's why I'm telling you that right now in your bill, really, I don't see it and you haven't answered it. I think Mr Alexiadis also told the committee and his speech today that IRS gives more reason to Congress, Ireland Revenue, the British equivalent, gives more accountability to the House of Commons? I think so. Therefore, this could have been a debate if you wanted an independent authority, but an independent authority that gives reasons, which can control it. Because right now, there's not that. Our bill didn't exist. You're right. He was under pressure, Mr. Alexiadis said so, but we don't have the property of this bill. It wasn't even our inspiration. But if we want to have a debate, we can cut off the five, six pieces of public life that can be found consensus - not on economic policy, but management - and see how it is controlled. That's the criticism we're making. And that explains why the agencies are so against you, because they don't trust you and maybe they wouldn't trust us, because they don't think they're covered by the arbitrary leadership. Unless you have a counter-project and think that IRS and Ireland Revenue are not controlled as far as you say. I think you're wrong and if you look at it, you'll see it. We therefore have a state that allows private interests to be exploited by rules, a state that actually wants concentration, wants authoritarianism, does not want accountability and does not even want the democratic process it needs. You don't make a public sector like that, because to build an ADI that is trusted, what the French 'esprit de corps' say, there is a feeling that we are a team and we are working together for a major objective, the fight against tax evasion, there must be no such big income differences. I give you an example of the part. So we do not discuss whether there may be a bonus, but they say how different it should be, how different it may be to one employee compared to another worker. Secondly, there can be no such differentiation within the public sector, i.e. the wage development of a auditor in the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Economy, the Ministry of Transport. Thirdly, there must be transparency and accountability. And for you, together with the institutions that pushed us, because you don't believe, you don't see that it's not the source of opacity, corruption, synergy just the state and the government, but it's private interests too, it's a blind point, which means we won't have any radical changes in how ADP works. And finally, this is just a part of the general downfall of your state of service. We see the failure everywhere and we always come to the point of the others, SYRIZA, the kids who gather in the squares, the students who don't want the police in the universities and go by saying. I think the issue of democracy is extremely important and it amazes us all that the President of SYRIZA has asked for a preliminary agenda for a debate on democracy - I do not know what happened with the meeting he had with the President of this House today - and yet you have not announced this debate. It is a slippery road to democracy, to parliament and to the social fabric. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u155	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u156	Madam President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u157	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u158	By the way, I will then submit the legislative improvements. Mr President, it is well known that we have great ideological differences, but we also have considerable differences in how we perceive political tactics. You are words, words, words. We're actions. The politician is judged in deeds and not in words. You, as you repeat many times in your debate, are a debate, a debate, a debate. We are reasoned: we hear, incorporate, improve, correct, enrich. That is why I will be tabling specific legislative improvements, which include signals from operators in the committee. You said that all the bodies opposed the hearing and that all the bodies that have seen the light of publicity prove it. I have an announcement here, I didn't say it in detail, I assumed you'd read it. For the first time, a special salary is created, there are real wage increases, the wage issue of young employees is resolved, distortions are being addressed, the incentive to achieve targets is being consolidated. That's not what we're talking about, taxes. And the third and last remarks. Mr. Chaakalot, you didn't answer what I said about you. You were not Minister of Finance in 2017-2019? Haven't you been committed since 2017 to deposit a bill that has a rating, wage and rating in the ADP? In each evaluation since March 2017...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u159	I told you we found it with the institutions, that's why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u160	Then why didn't you take it out of the memorial? You signed the third memorandum. The third memorandum is yours, exclusively yours. And we arrived in the summer of 2019 and continued this text to be inside. You like the debate, then. From 2017 to 2019 what did you do? How many times have you talked? How many times have you called the military opposition to debate then? How many times have you discussed with the AIA employees, which you made, in fact, Mr. Varoufakis, who just came in. One more thing. I ask you once again to tell us what your proposal was. Can we have it, please, in the House your suggestion? Because I heard the criticism of the government's proposal from the Step forward. I guess two years is enough for you to legislate. You may not have been able to bring it to the House, but you'd have had something ready. Can you submit, please, now in the Minutes your proposal after two years of your personal commitments to institutions for ratings, wages and evaluations? If you don't apologise for it, it turns out that the debate is out of substance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u161	Thank you very much, Minister. The President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group has asked for the floor. I apologise, Mr President, but I had already announced Mr Hatzidakis to make a five-minute position on the amendment he has tabled, and then the reason is yours. Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u162	I had given my place, Mr Varoufakis, Mr Tsakalotos, and thank you for giving me yours too. For reasons of order, I should like to present the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which was debated in a large part of SYRIZA's question on Friday in Parliament. I will do so as soon as possible, so that I do not abuse your time, and that is why I will remain as much as possible in the written text I have before me. The amendment covers two main issues, on the one hand the payment of a national pension against the question of the payment of the definitive pension, until the procedures are accelerated and, on the other hand, it extends the Vedala to the measures to deal with the impact of the coronary pandemic. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The first article provides for the conditions for granting a pension advance of up to EUR 384, i.e. the amount of the national pension to those insured by the ECAI who have already submitted or are going to apply for a pension for various reasons, so that they have an income until the first payment of the provisional and final pension. We want this to be done quickly, and that is why a simple and highly automated procedure is envisaged, on the basis of either elements kept in the ETUC or with a responsible statement from the person concerned. As I noted on Friday, we do not want people to be troubled. We do not claim to solve the issue, but there is a relief for the people that EFCA, the public, owes them for one year or for two years or for three years or four years. It does not, in general, honour the political system, all the governments that have so far ruled that there is a delay in this matter and that is why we are moving in this way. I'm saying again, we're not bragging. It is a relief measure and in parallel with ten measures which we have subsequently announced, we will endeavour to speed up the procedures for both temporary and final pensions. According to ECA estimates, this advance may be granted in almost two months. Within the framework of the measures to support the ECA at this critical stage, we are also bringing regulation that bans the transfers from the ECA to other organisations in full. A total of eight and a half thousand workers have been asked to transfer a thousand. I've only been talking about the last few days, to be precise. The number may be larger. You realise that if we accept these transfers, there will be a huge problem for the ECA and if we start making exceptions, you realize that the Aeolus bourgeois bourgeoisie will be opened. I imagine EKA officials themselves understand that. In addition to these arrangements, we are further prolonging, by 31 December, the deadline for payment of debts by employers', self-employed and free-traded insurance contributions. The regulation is in line with the corresponding regulations of the Ministry of Finance. We provide for repayment of the debts either in forty-eight monthly instalments at 2% interest rate or in twenty-four interest-free instalments. It's nothing new, we've already announced it since last week. I'm explaining it so that no confusion arises. And it's exactly what we presented last week, I'm just saying it more briefly today. We are also prolonging, in March, the 'Cooperation - WORK' mechanism, which has proved to be a valuable tool in the effort to preserve jobs. We cover the provisions on the suspension of contracts of employment and workers hired until 31 January 2021 in closed or affected enterprises. We are extending the coverage of employers' insurance contributions from the state budget for the 12-monthly tourism accommodation that has dropped to at least 70% in the past year. We are paving the way for specific compensation of EUR 534 for January and February or for corresponding decisions for the period November - December 2020. We also extend the financial support we had provided for theatres, cinemas, musical scenes and performances. We provide for exceptional compensation through OAED for January and February for seasonal workers in the tourism and food industry who are not entitled to re-entry and have not received an unemployment subsidy from September 2020 to January 2021. There is also an arrangement to upgrade the communication of the Ministry and the bodies supervised by the Ministry with the public, especially because of the coronary and the difficulties that arise. Thus, following on from the initiatives taken in the last year and on the basis of Article 32 of Law 4412/2016, which refers to this arrangement, awards can be awarded so that the websites of supervised organisations, the telephone centres and, in general, all mechanisms for contact, communication, information for workers, the unemployed and the insured can be upgraded, so that we can be better contacted with the citizen. That is what I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, and I thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u163	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mrs Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we believe that this amendment is the clear confession of the failure of the New Democracy Government to deal with this tragic problem of outstanding pensions, which she has multiplyed, but also the confession of inability to deal with in the future. Specific questions: First of all, how many do you ultimately estimate will be given? Because we, with the estimates we have and with those that are ultimately excluded, are talking about fifty thousand, so one out of four waiting to receive a pension. Point two and a second question, to which we would like an answer. Based on experience, one 20% is rejected by requests. And people who will submit requests are very good, because there is currently no platform, are marginal situations from successive insurance to fictitious years and calculation. What about these people, and even low pensioners, when the public comes after a while asking for sums wrongly? Point 3: pensions for disabled persons. At the moment in Lockdown - because you are going to a measure that will be also for the future - the CSRs are closed. What about these people? What have you predicted? Point 4. You're saying you're banned from transferring and extracting. When will you go to recruitment, because at the end of the day the risk here - and I am closing with that, Mr President - is that this amendment on pensioners is not a complete hindrance, it is about directing funds and executives to this new system which you are imposing on this exceptional allowance, which is a counter-happiness ultimately, and depriving resources and executives of the actual award of temporary and permanent pensions. So, you're going to recruit? How will you speed up? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, too. Mr. Katrinis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u166	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, I would like to ask you a direct question. I asked you on Friday, but you did not answer. In fact, it seemed to me that while you did not respond, they took care of approved newspapers, such as Saturday's "Kathemerini" to write, although today it corrected it, that the measures you have announced include the transfer of contributions and liabilities from the clearing of the 2017, 2018, 2019. I asked you directly on Friday and you did not answer. It is about eight hundred thousand free professionals with a debiting average of 1,500 euros each. The deadline expires on 31 March and I asked you whether you would postpone it. You didn't answer me. I saw it on Saturday in Kathimerini. Today, the whole press says that you have announced it and it will take effect. Because, I think, Minister, I know how to read, I read it on page 20 of the explanatory statement to the amendment, which says that insurance contributions from previous years are also included. Here, Mr President, is the storage of the communication propaganda of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis. In Mr Hatzidakis' amendment, he makes an explicit reference to Article 32 - indeed - and the dates are transferred to Article 4756, but to Article 71 of the same law on the payment of clearing instalments 2017, 2018, 2019 and relaying them for March 31, 2021, there is no reference to the law provision of the amendment brought by Mr Hatzidakis. Just eight hundred thousand professionals who are listening to us now, with closed shops, Mr President, today we are talking about, are obliged to pay the first instalment of these debts from now. Today, all the sites are advertising that the government brings it up, the explanatory amendment states it, the provision of the law does not say it, and I ask you directly: Minister, will you bring it today by the end of the sitting, yes or no? Or would you force eight hundred thousand professionals to pay by the end of March? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Villards has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr Yiannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice.]] Minister, we understand - at least - that you want to solve the pension problem with the national pension, which you will probably leave it forever. We don't see it ever change. From the first day you said that we understood that this is the way to solve it. You did the same with PPC, where you raised prices at the time, when you were lucky to reduce energy prices internationally and to close NOMEs. But I have some questions if you can answer them. One is exactly what you mean by the responsible statement you're writing. So, what exactly will the responsible statement say? How will it be confirmed? Whoever makes a responsible statement gets the deposit? The next question is: How much do you estimate that will be the amount that will be needed from the General Accounting Office of the State? We looked into it, we found estimates of the State General Accounting Office for a number of other than your bill, but no assessment of these pensions you're going to give. Now, does this amount really have a budget? If it's predicted, where is it? We haven't seen it anywhere. Of course, the budget is for garbage anyway, but at least we should know what that figure means and how much longer it will be. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u169	Thank you very much, Mr. Villardo. Minister, a brief reply to give the floor to Mr Varoufakis, please very much. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u170	Mr President, I should like to reply to my colleagues very briefly. This has been stated, there are hundreds of fifty-five thousand outstanding basic pensions. In 2019, to have one size class, it was a hundred and ninety thousand. I think that neither you nor we should be proud of this, I am simply saying it in comparison.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u171	It was a hundred and twenty-five thousand, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u172	It was a hundred and ninety thousand and a million nine thousand outstanding pension cases in total, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulos. These are numbers and they don't disprove. Of the hundred and fifty - five thousand, about fifty thousand have been retired. That is why this is not a question for them. There is a matter for the remaining 100 000 to 100 000 people, who can be covered by this provision, if they want it and if they make a statement. The question again arises: What about those who are rejected? I've said the percentages aren't that great. Last time a colleague from SYRIZA said here that he was 1/3 of those applying for a pension. Wrong! In public is 3% of those who receive a lower pension than they expect, while in IKA it is 8% -10% of those who get lower. Watch out, they're getting lower, I'm not saying the excluded ones. So these percentages are worth so much trouble to the citizens? So there is a mechanism here either with the elements of the EVA that are maintained or with a responsible statement, if there is a matter, particularly for those under sixty-two or who belong to exceptions, who are disabled, who want to receive a disability pension, and we are moving away from bureaucratic logic, which has troubled pensioners for so many years. The state cannot behave in this despotic and irreversible way. At the same time, as it goes without saying, we are anticipating a netting mechanism. In other words, if someone with 3%, 5%, maybe 8%, gets a higher figure - now we are talking about 384 euros - it can be set off so that not all the rest of the rest of this small percentage are held hostage. I don't understand why you're bringing it back. So what do you want? So that we don't lose a point, so we don't get a hair on the calculations made, people don't get pensions and don't have Easter? I consciously can't take it. That is what I have said inside the services, and that is what I am saying in the House. I can't take it. And I think no one should be able to handle it here. It is not the behaviour of a state that has elementary sensitivity. From there on, what you say about those who apply for disability and the functioning of the CSDP, I would like to say that the functioning of the CSDP is a matter. There has been progress in recent months and it can be even greater. There are difficulties because of the coronary. However, we are talking about people who have been through the procedures and who are applying for this. As far as recruitment is concerned, which is a panacea during SYRIZA, nobody says that this parameter should not be considered. Recently, they were hired, hundreds of forty contractors were permanently recruited, all going to help pensions, but one needs to see the subject holisticly. It does not mean that anyone hired is ready next day to help pensions. That is why, since Yannis Vroutzis was Minister of State - a series of arrangements, to deal with the issue with officials from other agencies, with bonuses for ECA officials. We will now try to make use, as far as we can, of this effort and services from the private sector, which are already in place, not to say: 'Which, say, the private sector, you analgesics and neoliberals'. It's already the company inside. We are talking about expanding the presence of the private sector, because pensioners are not interested, whether they receive a pension under this or under the other pension procedure. I would also like to reply to the question raised by Mr Katrin. Mr Katrin, the point you raise does not have to go through a provision of law. There will be a ministerial decision, which, for the category you say, will give a three-month extension.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u173	But the explanatory statement says so, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u174	We don't have a dialogue, so we can get it over with slowly. The Minister answered. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a bill on the tax authority of any country is central, because, moreover, the state has a monopoly on two things, on violence and on the right to extract property, resources and income from citizens. And it is very important that the process, the principle that manages this. But, Mr President, in the midst of snow and pandemic, I would like to convey to Parliament a message that I received from citizens of Lesbos. You are well aware of the tragic, inhuman and debatable conditions under which refugees are currently living in the mud. I am not going to oppose this. I'm just going to honestly convey a message from Lesvos citizens. And I will read it to you: “Let those of us who want to host a refugee family in the cold to do so. We are talking about our homes, our homes that will become warmer and more human when people in this world have been unlucky for some time. We open our houses to cold people. Do your debt as people, if anything, and allow it by creating the framework, so that we can do it, not only for refugees but also for Greeks, who regardless of their need for warmth in these difficult winter days." We are talking about fifty families right now from all over Mytilini, which is ready for each family for three to four weeks to host a refugee family at home. They've been in contact, they tell us, with the local authorities, the government authorities and they don't find any sense. If that's possible! Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, look at it. I can give you the evidence of these people. They are not party members, they have nothing to do with Mera25, to come into contact, to tell them the answer to the question they are closing down. And we say again: 'If we can't take them home, tell us why, let us know'. That's it for admission. So I said that the tax authorities of a state are the tool of every state, perhaps as important and important as the Armed Forces and the Security Body. The tax authority, as we know, has an excessive authority. And here is a big issue and moral and political and functional: he or she who decides to be aggressive tax control has a huge power. We know very well in this country in the past that this excessive power has many times been misused. Many tyranns can be set up using the tax authority. Let me return to the Ministry of Finance in 2015, because then I faced, on the one hand, my SYRIZA partners, whose party policy - which I did not belong to, as you know - was the return of the semi-autonomous then, you remember, the General Secretariat of Public Revenues to supervision and control, to the Minister's management. On the other hand, I had the troika, which insisted on even greater segregation of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues, but basically what they were asking for was for the Troika to take control of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues. I was between this Scylla and that of Harybdis. They wanted the Minister to have control over the General Secretariat of Public Incomes, which I did not want. Because I believe that no Minister should be able to order the General Secretariat of Public Revenue to carry out aggressive tax controls on his political opponents or to make such tax controls of aggressive and abusive, to competitors of certain business interests. We know very well how this works. On the other hand, I was not prepared, and I did not - one of the reasons I resigned - to sign, so that the Secretariat-General for Public Revenue passes to Troika, as was the case with No.4389/2016. I remember that the first week I was in the Ministry, Minister, this does not honor the faction and government in which I took part - a trade unionist came after a meeting, where I was trying to convince the trade unionists of the Ministry of Finance that it needs to be independent of the Public Income Authority, but under the control of the Greek Parliament, not of the Troika. I remember, therefore, that such a trade unionist, a representative, came to me and said, 'You must drive the lady' - I will not say her name, he was Secretary General of Public Income at the time - 'and put me in'. This gentleman is in this Chamber today. It's Mr. Alexiadis! You have had the courage to refer to what you have done as a policy of Varoufakis. Ladies and gentlemen, the main question of the negotiation in which I participated was how I will not have as Minister of Finance control over the abusive power of the tax authority, but also how the troika will not have control. These were the things that were requested in my first speech, or perhaps the second in the Eurogroup, and I shall submit it to the Minutes of the House. I am clearly referring here to page 3 of the need for a tax authority with greater independence and transparency in the face of Parliament. I will also table a second document after the negotiations on 20 February, which is the list of reforms that we proposed at the time as the Ministry of Finance after the interim agreement of 20 February, in which the following is clearly stated, which is in Greek: 'Contributions management'. Greece will modernise the tax and customs administration by taking advantage of the technical assistance available. Greece will enhance the transparency and international scope of the procedure through which the Secretary-General for Public Revenue is appointed, monitor its performance and is replaced, in the context of a policy which puts the General Secretariat for Public Revenue under the direct supervision of the Greek Parliament.’ There are others here that are in this climate. That's my attempt. Neither the Minister nor the Troika. Finally, after the conspiracy, we know what happened. He went to the troika. But because Mr Alexiadis submitted to the Minutes and an article from "Kathemerini", which states that I did propose to the Troika, to the lenders, with the independent Public Income Authority with parliamentary control, there is no need to look back at newspapers. Unfortunately, Mr. Chakalotos isn't here. Because at the delivery ceremony, when I handed over my brother and partner, Euclid Tsakalotos, then the Ministry of Finance on July 6 said exactly the following, which is verbatim, and you can see them and hear them on your Tube. I said: 'The Ministry's establishment plan, which we inherited on 25 January, provides for a semi-autonomous General Secretariat for Public Revenue' - the one I inherited from you, Mr Staikora, and your supervisor at that time - 'if you want a regime which is problematic to me. And it is problematic, because this separatism within the Ministry means that the Minister receives the political cost, without having the necessary means of intervening which a person should have to receive from political costs. In the context of the negotiation the Ministry and the Government as a whole submitted a proposal to the institutions for the creation of an independent tax and customs authority so that under the auspices, supervision and management of a parliamentary inter-party committee, the collection of tax revenues is not subject to either the political or the customer business influence.’ This was from my speech at the delivery ceremony to Mr. Chakaloto. I am saying this, so that there is no doubt about what was my own policy and what happened in the end with Mr.4389, with which the keys to public revenue were actually delivered to the troika. Troika treats and oligarchy drinks from that day. Minister, I listened to you before you and Mr. Chakaloto were in dispute. But why? You were wrong, Minister. You told him 'all words, words, words'. What kind of words? Mr. Tsakalotos signed two Memorandums, one in the summer of 2015 and the second they called it the Memorandum of Orgueliana was in August 2018. A lot of things Mr Tsakalotos has done, which you are doing today. I see the bill that passes through the House today for the AIA. You do nothing but mutate it somehow. Don't even mutate it. Some decorative changes you make. You don't do anything significantly different. Move exactly on that axis. Can we see it a little more carefully? The complete decommissioning of ADP from the public sector started with the law the particular I referred to. SYRIZA’s own law referred to a special salary. You said it yourself if I'm not mistaken. You don't enter it. You make some modifications, enter higher wages. I'm not against the highest wages. There is the model of Lee Kwan Yu of Singapore, that he who is responsible for the state's tax revenue must be paid more and more, so that he has a greater incentive to be unscathed or unscathed. I don't disagree with that. Where I disagree with you, Minister, it is this. What is this premium, the target award? I know the troika told you - I know, you didn't think about it - as they said it to them, as they said it to me. But that is unacceptable. Imagine putting an efficiencies premium on the judges, according to which their remuneration depends on the percentage of cases which result in the defendant's being sentenced. It is not possible to give them a premium when they put their hand deeper into the taxpayer's pocket. Give them a bonus or a bonus to do their job well, yeah. But not as a percentage of revenue and achievement of objectives. We know what the goals are. They are the bloody surpluses that the JRC quite rightly says. Finally, you too, through the troika conspiracy, have made this so-called independent authority. A horror of her independence! It is entirely dependent on the Troika's public revenue principle. And if you see the way they are appointed - we will discuss this in one minute - it is clear: You have made Troika praetorians, with the aim of guaranteeing lenders with certain bleeding surpluses from the great mass of the Greek people and ensuring that the oligarchy will never get caught for its tax evasion. That was the goal of the troika, that was achieved. The continuity between the two regimes SYRIZA and the New Democracy is clear. Article 9 of Law No.4389 expressly refers to point (c) of Article 9 of the Management Board - which is controlled by the Troika, as we will see - by establishing an opinion on a wage scheme and a bonus for the staff of the authority. So don't fight each other. It doesn't. You're saying the same thing. Recently - I said this in previous plenary to you, Minister - we have seen that the Troika's thinking has been completely overturned. You remember that we were told by the Troika and you were told by them and they were told by them that you needed an independent authority, depending on them, of course, which applies tax law, taxation and tax policy. Tax policy is being expelled by the government, by Parliament's plenary, it is assumed - from the troika too - but it is being implemented by the ADP. And you recently - and we had discussed this - you have come and given us concrete information that the commander of the AIA suggests to you fiscal policies, not how to implement them. We see, in other words, that this ASE had begun to become a huge state in a state. And it's not just how they work. The infrastructure of how they operate is very important. We were saying this and we were saying this again as Mera25 and we will continue to say that the tax software of a country also includes issues of national independence: to which servers? With what software? Who has access to this software? These are national security issues. To have a company abroad, which has given the software that eventually through two, three or four other companies have ended up being the software of AIA, without even knowing what they are, and a company in Silicon Valley can press a button and close the access that you, the government, have, to the tax data of the country, this is a scandal and a threat to the foundations of Greek democracy. The alleged independence of the AIA essentially completely legislative, with mathematical accuracy led to this lack of national, democratic sovereignty over fiscal software. Merra25 will legislate. We have already tabled a proposal for a law on the recovery of democratic sovereignty over tax and tax software. Now let's go see the follow-up between what SYRIZA did and what you do, Minister. The SYRIZA Act of 2016 provides for the appointment of the commander. Actually, we have a dominance. We have the commander and we have the expert. The expert is appointed by the troika. The Troika gives you a list of three names and you need to choose one. Right? That's what SYRIZA legislated for. The administration now comes from a top selection committee, where there are two troikas and six governments. These two troikas, if you like, are the culmination of the debt colony. These two troika people decide who will be the ones you choose the administration. The rest are the Chairman of the High Council for Selection (SEP), the Budget Office of the Parliament, the Financial Council and two Professors appointed by you. They choose the short list. I see - we all know - that the two troikas will be in there, along with the Troika expert for seven years since 2016. In other words, an interesting consensus has already been drawn up between you and you. We see that, in seven years' time since the start of the ADA, this is how the troika is slowly, since you are all good children, it will let you appoint yourself, without effective control by Parliament. In other words, what I was trying to achieve by SYRIZA at that time, a truly independent authority, which is accountable to the House, has been abolished through a good understanding of the New Democracy with SYRIZA. SYRIZA has recently been constantly talking about progressive governance against you, playing with this duplicate of maintenance and progress. SYRIZA's partners, with all this progress, what can we do to keep her? It is not - I insist - only who has the right to order aggressive controls on political and business opponents. It's the big tax evasion thing. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same delivery ceremony of the Ministry of Finance from me to Mr Tsakalotos, I said the following which are recorded: "One of the very important ongoing procedures in this Ministry is the operation of the IAEA in cooperation with the General Secretariat of Public Revenue and the Association of Greek Banks, which aims to control tax statements, in conflict with movements in bank accounts." These are verbatim things I said on camera at the delivery ceremony. "We believe that by September there will have been a major blow to tax evasion in Greece. There will be significant findings that will be converted into significant revenues, public revenues. This is something that will continue and I am sure that Mr Chakalotos will be leading this process, which has such great economic and economic importance, but, if you like, and cultural importance to our country." For those who do not remember - and you have no reason to remember why this was really buried - what we tried to do through the ILO, the Association of Greek Banks and the General Secretariat of Public Income is very simple. On the one hand, algorithmics, using all the elements of transfers from one VAT to another, bank transfers within and outside Greece of Greek citizens, to make an annual calculation of how much money should have a specific VAT point, to justify plus - over 100,000 euros - a very large margin of error - the specific amount of euro moved. And, at the same time, this is compared with the tax statements of each LNG. And if there's a great contradiction between the two, a red electronic flag to rise and tell you "here's a problem". That was our project. It was a very large project to which Panagiotis Danis was led at the time, a Special Secretary of the ILO and that is what I referred to in the delivery ceremony. The delivery ceremony was on July 6th. On July 22nd, Panagiotis Danis sent a confidential document to the Minister of Finance then, to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Alexiadis and the Prime Minister. I shall table this in the Minutes of the House and this together with the other texts at the end of my speech. In this document, Mr Danis was actually extinguishing the alarm by saying that this process of algorithmic controls has the potential, according to his own assessment, to make revenues proportionate to the HPAI through the fight against tax evasion, this control and explain why. And I will also present the fourth document of the day, the resignation of Mr. Dane on 27 November 2015 in which he makes specific complaints, which he sends to the Prime Minister at that time, Mr. Alexis Tsipras. I shall refer to very few of them. I shall refer to very few of them. ‘The draft prepared strategic plan that was approved by you’, referring to the Prime Minister, ‘is aimed at the overall, automatic, electronic control by consolidating and exploiting the diffuse material of 1.270.047 identified until now unique VAT for the period 2000-2014’. On a next page of Mr.Danis' long letter of resignation, he states: "It is noted that for this reason on the Ministry of Finance's consultation website it was posted from 25/5 to 5-6-2015 a draft law that we drafted on: "The Voluntary Disclosure of Capital and Investment and Tax Compliance", that was something that we had done together with Mr.Danis "with a view to the immediate collection of significant sums of tax fumes from the period 2002-2014. However, in the final and most critical part of this painful effort instead of strengthening, recognizing and rewarding the IAEA, this is what Mr Danes says to the Prime Minister then "for this project, which can immediately achieve a major blow to the fight against tax evasion and generate significant public revenue, in reality from October 31, 2015, the IAEA is still in existence, but effectively abolished". On the next page: "It is noted that these cases relate to corruption, to political and to important persons in economic life. Therefore, any handling of any of these must also exclude the slightest suspicion of cover.’ Below: "It is certain that the well-structured and cooperative implementation of the above plan, which requires the contribution and vocational training of all the parties involved, is the only way to achieve a successful outcome, which, on the one hand, will generate an equivalent income of HOPI and, on the other, will contribute to the return of deposits to credit institutions and the restoration of confidence of depositors. Because I fully disagree with the limitation of the competences and tasks of the IAEA, and it has 50 others because, in this time period of priority of the Troika's institutions, in my opinion, it is not the elimination of tax evasion and the collection of public revenue by the holders and occupants, but the full control of the State, by the troika, means, 'because the necessary and sufficient conditions for the successful implementation and implementation of the IAEA drafted by you' is referred to by Mr Tsipras, 'an emergency strategy for an automated electronic audit procedure'. Since, in the light of the foregoing, I no longer have any reason to exist and remain as a special secretary of the ILO, I submit my resignation". I'm going to testify this for the Minutes too. And so we missed the opportunity to hit the tax evasion of the period 2000-2014, and you lost it, with what happened at the time. The granting of the General Secretariat of Public Incomes by the SYRIZA government to the troika, which remains today. And you come and give them a premium. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is obviously part of a more general plan to lose democratic sovereignty over tax authorities and tax software. That is why Mera25 will vote against every article in this bill. It is politically and morally necessary to oppose this little cunt, which SYRIZA started in 2016 and which you continue today. What do we say? We have developed the original idea of a simple cross-party committee that controls, appoints the administration of the independent authority. We are talking about the creation of a social committee for the selection of senior staff, consisting of one third of full-time judges, one third of full-time taxpayers and one-third of Members of Parliament. This means recovering democratic sovereignty without creating a state repression where the Minister in question is either you, or I, or anyone else who can use the tax for the purposes of his political formation or heirs in general. Ladies and gentlemen, to close, we are in the midst of a tough economic pandemic, and I would like, Minister, if you allow me, to close with some assessments. You know very well what my assessments were about the depth of the economic pandemic. Let's get over our arguments about this. I want to focus on what is happening across Europe and the impact they will have here. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a tragic situation, but it will become more tragic when the pandemic begins to leave. You know very well that today in Europe and not only in Greece in 2020 we had a reduction in unemployment on the one hand, at least official unemployment, and on the other hand we had a fall in bankruptcy. A range of potential bankruptcys and redundancies is actually created, which will evaporate as a dam that breaks down will extinguish and drown society as soon as the recovery begins and the order will come from Berlin to Brussels and then Athens, Rome, Madrid, Paris to tighten the lanes. You say and say again that there are savings, that people are saving all this time and that there will be growth because these savings will come to the market. Fear that, Minister. There is no doubt that there are our fellow citizens who are actually saving. Those who did not have a reduction in wages and incomes, and there are people who do not have a reduction in wages and incomes, these because of the lockdown save. On the other hand, you have a very large mass, the majority, which is even more in the deep hole of tolerance. When this slow transition takes place - we hope it will be quick, but rather slow - towards a 'normality' and the savings of the few will come out in this market in combination with the lowest offer will increase prices. So the vast majority of our fellow citizens, not only here, but also in Italy, and in Spain, and in France, the great majority of Europeans, who are currently suffering, will suffer even further because they will also see a price rise at a time when their incomes will be even lower. The misery of many is about to take off at a time when, Minister, once again beyond our different ideological and political positions, the European Union is once again seen as a failure in the way it reacted. If you look at 'FINANCIAL TIMES' this morning, a simple assessment and comparison of the European Union and the United States is not that the United States is an excellent country, a failed country is that, but it is worth comparing the European Union and the Eurozone to the failed America, so that we can understand how much more unsuccessful the European Union is. Output gap, the European Union's output gap is twice as much as the United States - I will also present it in the Minutes - while the total budgetary injectment into the European Union and along with the loans, which I do not count, as you know, is exactly half of the toning injection in the United States. Once again, we have a crisis from which Europe will come even weaker than the United States and especially China, which you know very well that because of the proper management of the pandemic, it is now in full recovery. The big key is Berlin, as always. Our straps, yours, will tighten them when they balance their budget. Fortunately, this does not seem to be happening soon, thankfully for our people. Fortunately, Mr Solts does not want a debate until the next elections on the matter of the budget cut in Germany, so we will not even have a 0% return to the balanced budget. That's good. However, your budgets, Mr Stakoura, are much worse than that you have said and what you are saying. You'll have a huge deficit of 15%. Even the Maastricht criterion alone should ask you to catch in time you should impose measures which will be almost as deep as PASOK in 2010-2011. I wish that wouldn't happen, but that's what makes my numbers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u176	And close, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Mr President. I would just like to refer to something that is of great importance because it is debated everywhere throughout Europe. There has been a text of a hundred economists, I was also asked to sign it, but I did not sign it, which calls on Mrs Lagard to delete debts, to write bonds from what the European Central Bank bought. This is nonsense, which is why I did not sign it. This does not mean that there is no need to cut the Greek debt in particular. It's absolutely necessary. If there is no haircut for the Greek public debt, the Italian and Spanish debts, this Eurozone will simply continue to be a iron cage for all the peoples of Europe. But to go to Mrs Lagard to tell her "hair the bonds you bought" actually what she's going to do? What she has done, she will show you the Statute of the European Central Bank, and she will tell you "that is forbidden to do so, they will arrest me" and on the right hand. It's a pass to Mrs. Lagard to say no. But what you have to do is what you smashed me into when I was speaking in 2015. The issue of perpetual bonds must be made, of unlimited duration, and bonds must be exchanged with them. This is not prohibited by any statutes of the central bank. You can see already that Austria has just made a 100-year-old bond. What a hundred years old? The way in which the haircut without which there will be no recovery is to insist on the extradition of perpetual bonuses by Greece, on behalf of Italy and even France, because the French public debt is not viable, Mr McCrone knows it, and that such an exchange should take place. Technical means exist. You must, however, ask for them, and you must also think about the veto, which you said here on 8 April, that you will never actually exercise yourself out of discussion, Minister. I close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance, going back to the way in which the tax authority of Greece was assigned to creditors who only care how the oligarchy is to remain unavoidable, not to suffer the algorithmic controls we have carried out and the small and medium-sized ones to bear all the weight. It is no coincidence that your bankruptcy law along with today's law has a starting date on the same day on June 1st. This excellent conclusion of all the Memorandum parties, particularly what happened that evening of the referendum here by SYRIZA's colleagues and friends, is that a people were actually overturned and a government signed up to the paper delivered by the General Secretariat of Public Income in the Troika. I will close with a poem that Breech wrote in 1953, when he was noisy, was disturbed and was in opposition to the government of the Democratic Republic of East Germany. He said at that time: "The writers' secretary gave out brochures saying that the citizens lost the government's confidence and that they would only get it back harder workers. Would it not be simpler," says Breech, "the government to dismantle the people and elect another?" Hey, that's what you're doing. And the outrage of a country without sovereignty over its tax principle is the result. Mer25 is the party that has made the restoration of national sovereignty over the ADI, and not just because the real Europeans, the real internationalists know that Europe cannot be built when people are overthrown by their governments on behalf of the Oligarchy without borders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u178	Thank you too, Mr Varoufakis. And until the Step is cleared, Mr Alexiadis has the floor on staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, this is the first time I have asked for the floor on staff, it has never happened in this parliamentary term. And I don't because I don't have personal controversy. Politics are the controversy we have. But in the political criticism we have made today by making specific publications and asking questions, we have expected a political response. Instead of a political response, we were attacked personally with a terrible lie. I repeat, because I have no problem with it and it will not remain so that Alexiadis asked that the Minister be expelled on Saturday and that he should be the Secretary General in her place. It's a terrible lie. And thankfully, the Ministry of Finance knows everything about me and the particular Member. Everyone knows whether this is true or not. I expect the evidence and evidence when it happened, who were present. For as many times as I had the trade union and party status we met in the Minister's office were others present. If he means anything else, he'll have to bring evidence because of me this thing isn't going to pass that way. But I ask specific questions. I expect evidence to come or anyone who's lying is a lousy liar and a slander. From me, like I said, it's not going to pass. However, I would like to make two comments on what has been said and about my person. I can't understand. Was there a minister in SYRIZA, he knew that SYRIZA was against the semi-autonomous GDR, but he wanted something else? And I cannot understand whether or not the ILO agrees to join the GLO to join the GLO, as stated in the report, and it did not disprove it as Minister or disprove it even now, but blames us for the resignation of the Danube that took place because the responsibilities of the GLO went to the GLO. Well, somewhere the vagueness and the flares have a limit and I won't follow. I've never been in either the same party or the same world as this subjugator. I look forward to the evidence because, from me, the terrible lie that has been heard in this House is not going to remain that way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr Alexiadis. I call on the Greek Parliamentary Representative, Mr Constantine Heta, to take the step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. It is always interesting to discuss finances. There is no reason, Minister, to get involved in the left-hand smuggling, but there is one chance, and we have said it since the first time, and we take the spoon from you when you electionally shouted - I would like you to return and tell us - why do we not do a committee of inquiry on the missing 100 billion in the first year of governance of SYRIZA? Those 100 billion lost, yelling at you? We're here. Let's go find out where the money went, where the money went. Because we listen here hours of endless paradoxical time when Greece is sinking out. I would like to ask you, Mr Stavoura - I like communication and interactivity - if you were not a minister of finance and you were not a government now, would you, at the heart, vote on this bill today? Waiting for an answer, or will you say it later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u182	Then.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u183	Then. I like ping pong because it helps, I think. We're talking about a Memorandum obligation. But no one wants the memos. I therefore consider that what you are asking us today to vote on, you would not vote on it under any circumstances, unless you were a minister of finance or government, as the New Democracy is today. Minister, it's very interesting. How long have we been here? We are talking about this bill, Mr Staikora, we are legislating, the state legislates, the government legislates articles, provisions, things about the AIA, but for which, although we are legislating, we cannot control, we cannot touch it. It's one other state, it's something different. We are, however, legislating for the ADP. It has an interest in this too big. And I'm going to tell you something, Minister, because I was listening to this ping-pong - I'm going to say it with a lot of sympathy - the boring thing with Mr. Chakaloto. That is enough: 'We, you, us, you.' There are, as you know, outside. And these are the citizens and the citizens who are destroyed and hungry and indebted and bankrupt. Call both of you and them. And you say, "We have done these, you have done these, you have done these. These things are no longer of interest to the world. I'm telling you in a few remarks. Now, from what I heard before my speech, namely, as far as Mr Varoufakis is concerned, I will not go into economic matters, because I think everyone has given their credentials to this Chamber. For those who professed in ministries speak the works rather than the words. However, I will say about Mr Varoufakis' proposal, which he told us a moment ago - and it will be really interesting - that at least it does not sound that the Greeks are currently saving money. A little respect for having in the world listening to us. We cannot say in this Chamber that the Greek people are currently saving money. Avoid some such things, please. Now we're going to AIA. As we said, it's an Independent Authority yet. As far as the memorandum is concerned, Mr Scandalides, the rights are yours. I shall borrow a little bit: 'The memorandum is here, united, strong'. I paraphrase the PASOK and do it 'the Memorandum'. I'm getting your nice motto. This is evidenced today by the fact that those who claim to have taken the country out of the memorials or that we came out of the memorials, this is a story with a dragon or without a story. Anything you want to put on. 'The Memorandum is here, united as possible'. What? There it is. ADD. What's that? Memorandum obligation. Everything else is communal trick and nothing more. And what's the bill doing? We are giving the ADI superpowers and so it is promoted by our Memorandum of Creditors, Institutions, Troika, - we have changed them seven names depending on how we get through it in communications - a privileged treatment and bonuses for the officials of the authority. And we make them, Minister, that's our view, mine, if you want, and if you disagree, I will listen to you - head hunters: How much was your salary? It was 700 euros. You'll get another 700 bonuses. Hunt, hunt the world. That's how we make citizens, make them hate the state and state, because we're chasing them. And it's a pity, because the citizen needs to be left behind in the state and state. The citizen must have an ally of the state and the state rather than hate the state, the tax, the ADP, the controls. Unfortunately, however, we have reached him in such a way that the world now hates the state. You are also being stolen from the glory, because there are too many amendments coming here. I mean, instead of talking to your bill, we don't know where to start. From Mr. Ausgeakis? From Mr. Hatzidakis? There is a blizzard of amendments. The 'Medea' may be over outside, but the snow of the amendments continues and falls in here. In fact, I will not go into the essence of what Mr Hatzidakis' amendment says. However, I will say this: I think we are mocking the Greeks who have paid a life. You're making fun of our fathers, our grandparents, these people. Now you're calling to solve the riddle, Mr. Brutsi. I'll listen to you because you had this portfolio a while ago. It's a difficult equation, accumulated, bad situations, but this world out there really pays it. And now give crumbs and baptize carbs all over the crumbs. The 350, the crumbs, you do it: "We give you money." And the hungry Greek - and I am ashamed to say it, but it is true - the hungry Greek pensioner has ceased to dream of carveds, Ministers. You should know that. It will take 380 euros, it will also get some retrospectives, it will get a 15 000 in the bank, Mr Scandalides, it will also see them from where there was nothing, it will think that 15,000 people entered, I get 380. No more permanent than the temporary! He may in five to six years go eighty - eighty - five to migrate to the Lord. So will we handle this for the people who have supported our homeland on their shoulders all these years, our fathers? So, for them we don't have any money, Minister, but for illegal immigrants - I'll tell you in a little bit - do we have money? 380, 360 the retired, 400-500 others? So, for them, we don't have any money, Mr. Brutsi, for having legislation a while ago in this ministry? So, we have the millions to give them to the channels, which I was telling Mr. Livano this morning, why are we here this morning? That's where we have to give millions, give the dose, the 20 million Petsa, all the millions we give the channels. But we can't give it to the retired people. It's a problem. For the thirty-two independent authorities - good time and the ADP, one of the thirty-two, because five are recognised by our Constitution, the other twenty-seven do not know what role they play - we have to give 600 million euros a year, Mr Stakoura. That is what the independent authorities cost, EUR 600 million per year. And the retired person gets 380 and say and thank you for his bleeding and dedicating his life to work honestly for his homeland. But we have money for illegal immigrants in our country, Minister. As a parliamentary representative, you will give me the opportunity to refer to two - three things, to some other issues, and I will also hear the answer of the ruling party. The New Democracy commits a national crime. Yesterday we left it at only five national crime with ethnic minorities. But here we go on and there's nothing we can do. Here you are determined to take it all the way. You create Islamic cities across the territory. And be careful now because I compare it to the bill and the amendment for the 380s of the Greek mansion of the pensioner. You have them in schools, shops, sports and entertainment facilities, in little mosques and imams. Our president this morning revealed the permanent facilities you're going to do to Evros. You have them catering and recreational spaces. Listen. The Greek people must hear them. You have them in hospitals, shops, schools, washing machines, dryers, multi-shops, administrative offices, guard offices, sports areas, an electromechanical plant office. These are millions of euros, and we are too. It's not Europe's money. You know very well that in the budget, which was shattered in the air, which you voted two - three months ago, we also had half a billion for illegal immigrants in it. It's our money. It was about 500 million, wasn't it, Mr. Villardo? It was there somewhere, if I remember. You have them a water drainage system, a permanent water supply network, fence. And you do it everywhere in Kavala, in Bajori, everywhere. It's millions, Greeks' money. And the pensioner gets 380. Wait five to six years. If you can live to get your pension, and because you can't make it, take 380 now. Well, that is, Mr Varoufakis, Mr President of Mera25, who told us that the solidarityrs should host their homes and leave them. Don't we slowly start our self-criticism? Let's get started. Take two - three to your house. Make the start, because we have another picture for them out there. I read today - and I will submit it in the Minutes - about the occupation of illegal immigrants in Greek homes in Soufli, in the Great Sufflion. When the owners are gone, they go in, but when they leave they leave a mess behind. Chaos! We've got pictures. Today's post reports: They don't hand over the hotel's keys where they stay temporarily, if the state doesn't give them - it says - passports or identities. It can't be done. These are the disparities in society. And I'm going to go a little bit on bad weather. I won't go into details. Mr. Stavura, it's not your thing, I mean the government. This is a permanent situation. It is a pretext for the incompetence of the governments concerned. Every time it snows - New Democracy is up, PASOK is, SYRIZA is - we have the same. "My same Pantelaki the same My Fully" because you are the same. 16-12-2021: ‘Medea’. You saw what happened. 5-1-2020: ‘The Hephaiston. Snow in Magnesia, rail lines are closed." 6-2-2020: "Skinias in Athens. Athens - Lamia for lorries is closed." 4-1-2019: ‘Serious problems. The streets are closed in PATHE. Current holidays’. 23-2-2017, SYRIZA: "Too much suffering for drivers in the snow. Uk km on the highway.’ And if we go back a little bit, we'll find more and more. Why? Because this state of affairs cannot function, as a European state operates, correctly. Because this citizen - I will say again sadly - hates the state, because he only pays and has no provision. He pays, pays, pays, pays, and once he snows, he stays locked, we close the streets, we do more. It can't be done. No provision. In conclusion, I will refer to a part that concerns you, Minister, because we have often said our opinion, Mr. Minister of Finance, that the Ministry of National Defence must return to the Treasury. And I think you should see it. For "Telemacy" we have said it many times. The President of the Greek Solution has told the Prime Minister himself, the Defence Ministers, the Deputy Minister of Defence. Why is Erdogan doing now? And I'm closing with that, Mr. President. We make this fence twenty-six kilometers, Mr. Brutsi, but we know that the new fashion, the new weapon used by Erdogan, is these unmanned drones, unmanned UAVs, what we say. And he's made a swirl on our entire border line. And we, because you don't listen to us, have "Telemaho", an excellent anti-drones system built by the Greeks - it's our construction - and it can give the kiss of life even financially, Mr. Stakoura, to our defence industry. But you can't hear us. You hear us somewhere. At the 'Rafahs' you did it. You heard us. We've said more. Now put systems up to upgrade the Ruffle missiles. I told you about the Belaras. Looks like we're right and you're listening. We told you about the Black Hocks in Korea to go get them. The Koreans have retired. And here someone forbids - a magic hand, - it may not be Greek, I don't know - 'Telemaho'. Why not? And anti-drone we will have and our defence industry will work and our product is and we will have jobs from all. Look at these. It's serious what we're telling you. We'll find them in front of us. We'll really talk about it because we want to help and offer a little stone in our homeland. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Heta. Only one minute was the delays. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today in this House is important, but not important for the time that we have devoted and the political debate that has taken place. It has become important through the debate, the different approaches to the crucial issues of tax administration. Let me tell you that my personal experience prior to me also gives me the right to have a bilateral and greater knowledge and experience in matters. And I want, looking all in the eyes, to tell you that the bill is in the very right direction. First and foremost, without cause, he opened mainly from KINAL, but also wrongly from the side of SYRIZA, who properly legislated at this point in time, the issue of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, although if first, it is independent, and secondly, whether it is worth being independent. And Mr Varoufakis also raised the matter just before his position. I reply directly: The Independent Public Income Authority, the so-called ADI, was legislated by Law.4389 on March 22, 2016 as a guideline of the third memorandum - the Minister said so excellently, Mr. Veziropoulos. And this legislation was in the right direction, because knowing the past and the functioning of our political system many years ago, Mr Scandalidis, you must know that at some point the AACC had to acquire this independence. And, indeed, with the law, he became independent. It may not have taken place in size, to the extent that it should also be dealt with issues which call into question its independence or its degree of independence or its way of accountability. This is a completely different matter. However, the current government has rightly been structured and maintained as an independent authority under the name ADI. The second issue to which the debate on this bill raises is the 12 thousand AIA officials and their wage environment and the wage situation. So I will answer you with the same experience, knowledge of today's data and my past experience. The Independent Public Revenue Authority must have a staff that is of a high scientific level, be integrated and have a good wage. For me over time, I think he must have a distinct wage treatment. And it has to have a discreet wage treatment, because very simply, friend Alexiadis, it delivers tax justice, i.e. it does a special work on legal and natural persons, controls tax declarations, controls tax data, controls companies which means that it must have knowledge of the tax issues and the Code of Taxation and the Code of Books and Elements, and of penal issues in the penal and public administration issues. He needs to know the whole spectrum, the fair trade. It must, in other words, have a high level of scientific training and formation, which now means that, in addition to the recruitment process through the AACC, increased amounts are needed. So, in order to do and do its work properly as soon as it makes tax justice, it means simply economic conditions, that, firstly, it identifies tax matter, secondly, it certifies it and, thirdly, it receives it, a high role for a public official must also have a distinctive attitude. What did we do in the past few years? We had given before terminology the DABEETs. The state has called them DWBEET. Then they were renamed into a personal difference. And now comes the legislator - very rightly Christos Stagios and Apostle Besiropoulos - and the IBEETs, the personal difference, incorporate it in wages. And they also come and implement the single wage law by fully implementing the single wage law, while, first, maintaining the remuneration without anyone reducing the remuneration from now on, but by giving it a scientific equivalent to the environment, the new wage-forming for the employee, but also, above all, the objectives through the evaluation of each employee. It's obvious, I mean. So the bill is absolutely in the right direction. It comes to restoring an issue which was pending in the completion of the Independent Public Authority's law, and I personally believe that it will work positively for both the officials and the objective we set ourselves over the period for the arrest of the tax item, which will come through the more effective operation of the officials themselves. To keep an element here, which I did not know, and I heard it from the Minister shortly before, that in the final AACC competition of 1/3 of the successful civil servants in AACC he did not go to take the place he was responsible for, which he achieved, because it was precisely high scientific qualifications and the free market from them gave more money. There is currently a lack of staff in the ADP and it needs to be enriched with new blood, high-trained people, young children, with knowledge of finances to work more efficiently and better. In short, this bill is a good bill, in the right direction and restores an outstanding one after the legislation of independence of AIA by L.4389/2016. That's the reality. We have therefore spent a lot of time on a self-evident bill that is moving in the right direction. The second question concerns the amendment brought by the Ministry of Finance. I have to use the same previous knowledge and experience again. It has always been a time-consuming requirement of the political system in how we will bring businesses to Greece, that is, to attract here taxable material from abroad. It was a time-consuming demand and a time-consuming target of the political system. Today this effort is coming to an end through the fourth legislative intervention, which is today. I would remind you that three laws so far No46/2019, No 4714/2020, No 4758/2020 and today's law are coming to do this timely demand of all parties that have passed through the government. They deserve congratulations to the Secretary-General, Mrs Athena Kalyvas, who, from what I have heard from the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakoura, has dealt with these legislative initiatives. These legislative initiatives I call them reform. The real reform. Reforms do not reflect their result instantly. They want a time horizon. These four legislative initiatives, the three that have been made and today, I am absolutely certain that they will bear fruit in the ultimate future. Retired foreigners, foreign workers and family businesses will come to Greece today - the institutional framework is shaping - and will bring tax revenue to Greece. If you look at the reading and proposals made by the largest audit companies by the "GRANT THORNTON", the "ERNST AND YOUNG", PRIME", the "PRICE WATERHOUSE" on the issues of tax administration and tax incentives, what we are legislating today all three previous legislative interventions that have been made have always been in the top priorities that have been set. Other countries have done it. Greece is doing so, too. Congratulations, Mr. Stakoura, to you, to your staff, to the Secretary-General, Mrs. Kalyva. I will go through the amendment concerning the Ministry of Labour. Let me tell you that I, from this Stepma, have been trying and trying, without claiming infallibility, whenever I go up here and have these microphones in front of me and before my fellow Members, always to be credible and correct in what I am saying. At policy level they may be questioned. At the level of data, however, they should not be called into question. Because we're talking about evidence. Woe and woe if the Members of the Greek Parliament who have been through and from the positions of Ministers come here and say nothing about their name. I have heard Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou say arbitrary figures for the last time - I will not say the word lies - because of ignorance on the issues of outstanding pensions. Before getting to the question of outstanding pensions concerning the specific amendment by the Minister of Labour, Kostis Hatzidakis, which is correct, I would like to open up the question of outstanding pensions. It concerns Parliament, not unfairly. Let's see it a little more spherical. We have focused on the issue of outstanding pensions and we cancel everything. But what's the reality? We're wronging ourselves. Greece has spent many years through an erroneous insurance system, which was the main cause - one of the main causes - of the country's financial derailment. Mr Scandalidis, as I look at you, I am proud to say that as Minister at the end of February 2020, the great insurance reform came at last, Mr.4670/2020, which started to work as of 1 March 2020. Since then, we have been writing to the nearest the functioning of the law on insurance reform. I also said in my speech in the insurance reform that it was a law that took advantage of the past. He also took advantage of Law 3863, Law Loverdus - Koutrumani, and Law No.4387/2016, the Law of Katrugalos. He took all the good things, changed on the basis of the political priorities that we had set as the New Democracy in the run-up to the elections and now created the number 4670 that came. We have in Greece a law of insurance law that is sustainable, with incentives to be inside the insurance system. In addition, it cultivates the insurance consciousness. That's the big picture. So don't self-defense. I have not heard from the law vote or a party being placed for a change in insurance law. And that's good. Individual matters to do with giving a pension or anything can be heard. But that law came and will stay. He came with a proportional study until 2070 for the first time. It cannot change or be shaken because it has the approval of the Ageing Working Group and of all of Europe. That's the reality. Subtotals of the scheme as last unsettled insurance are the outstanding pensions. I shall say, therefore, that this issue is, indeed, a 50-year-old problem. Not solved magically by pressing a button. But I will repeat my firm position. It is only resolved through the digital system “ATLAS”. If we do not catch the cause that creates it, that is to say stop the tank filling with pending pensions, it will never stop. And that was, in fact, in April 2020. SYRIZA lost the opportunity. I then handed him over the study of "ITLAS". He didn't go through with it. Already today, in digital terms, farmers and widower's pensions are being received in a second. In April, the disability pensions and the health care workers will be drafted more digitally with the “ATLAS” system. The plan as developed with the FBI was to complete the ‘ATLAS’ system by the end of 2021. What does that mean? That the outstanding pensions that are now available can be dealt with by putting power, by exploiting human resources, giving incentives. That's the truth. So we're talking about a partial problem in the insurance sector. That's the reality. So let's go see what Mrs. Xenonakopoulou said. Ms. Xinoyannakopoulou, I don't like to get back to time. As a member of the opposition officer, I had asked dozens of questions with the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group and KINAL at that time, tell us what the outstanding pensions are. You deceived us. You weren't answering. And when I became Minister, I asked you to ask me a question. You didn't. I wanted you to make it to me, to show the difference. He did the KINAL. I responded to KINAL at that time, that is, what the outstanding pensions we received are. I read. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Take it. The outstanding pensions: October 2019, from the services, major pensions of eighty-seven thousand eighty-one, eighty-sixty-seven thousand ninety-one and only thirty-sixty-four. In total, we received over three hundred thousand unfinished pensions in a total of five million eight thousand seven hundred forty - eight. Of course I'd fallen out because I hadn't measured the hidden pensions in the bags, Mr. Xinoyannakopoulos. They were discovered after.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u186	Slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u187	I would like to say in the Minutes what we received at the time and I would ask that the same mistake be made again. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Ioannis Vroutsis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The second question that always comes in is what the outstanding pensions are. Unsolved. In October 2020, the publication ‘ITLAS’ was published. She has delayed her extradition. It's got to go out on 25 every month. This version now enables political parties and MPs to know exactly what the pension gaps are, how many pensions have been awarded and how many pension applications have been made. I'm filing it. This is the book with which you will no longer need to ask in here what the outstanding pensions are, because the application automatically goes from the time of submission to the "ATLAS" system and no Minister is interceived to hide them in the sacks as Mrs Ahtsoglou did, my predecessor. I'll say why this happened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u188	You don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u189	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's very important what I'm going to say and it's worth it. He heard about the ESS, Mr. Regling, the red card, and everything else. What's the reality? Of course, there was when I was a minister of strong pressure from the ESM on outstanding pensions. We were to blame because we just received the government and they came to the minister? Oh, no. You know that abroad they see the country single. What happened? SYRIZA, the Ministry of Labour, had received 2.4 billion loans to return the single, pay the death pensions in bags - it was forty-five thousand - to pay off the main pensions and reduce the health delays. What happened? You weren't telling the truth. Do you remember that step that Mr. Tsipras and Mrs. Ahtsioglou came out of, and they talked about surpluses in the EFKA? These were the surpluses of the loan that had not been attributed to the pensions, the unfinished or the ones. Mr. Scandalides, it was 2.4 billion. I was forced and made through "ATLAS" the whole picture of the country's time and indeed in November 2019, the ESM gave green light. Why did he give green light? Because it was me and the New Democracy Government? Oh, no. He gave green light and we got the 750 million, our dose, for this simple reason. Firstly, we have reduced the delays one-off from 120 million to 40. Secondly, we have given all the forty-five thousand funeral expenses to bags that concern the farmers themselves. Thirdly, we have reduced health delays from 240 million to 20 million. We have shown the 'ITLAS' system which gave the final solution in the future to outstanding pensions. ESSM's been persuaded. Mr Stagiras, then going to the European Commission, to the Council, took the green light and took the 750 million. That's the reality. And what did we do these days? I'm hanging up with this. Mr President, I need a minute. It's worth it. Firstly, since 1 March 2020, when the law came into force, we have given one million fifty-one thousand retrospective pensions, 1.4 billion. We have given two hundred and fifty thousand pensions to one single because of the new law, Law 4670 and the decision of the Council of State. That was a job that had to be done at the same time. We gave the forty-five thousand funeral expenses of the farmers who were in sacks. Everything. We gave a hundred and four thousand outstandings from the 2019 debts of the temporary, as we said, the polls allowance that you gave to the pensioners. We're talking numbers. We gave eighty thousand widow's pensions from 50% to 70%. There has been an incredible job from the board of EFKA and from the employees of EFKA. Of course, in the question of the chosen colleague, which was made at the same time, on October 9, 2019, we attributed 215 million to two hundred and fourteen thousand free professionals. They were cleansings of the Katrugalo Law that connected income to the insurance. We called it a tax insurance. We gave in December 2020 a hundred and fifty-eight thousand free professionals 135 346 000 euros. All this work was done from 1 March to December 2020, imagine. At the same time, the digital pension for "ITLAS" came out. It is the Ministry that runs the program to increase to two hundred and fifty thousand pensioners because of the payroll and pensioners get 70% and not 30%, as was the law of SYRIZA. That's the truth. At the same time, we increased from 50% to 70% of the temporary pension and from 50% to 80% of the temporary pension. We have also given farmers the possibility of temporary retirement. That's the reality. What happened today? In 2020, we attributed sixty - one thousand seven hundred - seventy - seventy - one main pensions. You said that right, Mrs. Xenonakopoulou. We broke every record with half the staff of all time, when the average pension award was a hundred and fifteen thousand. This means that the prospects until the end of 2021 were to give all the loose ends. To the main question now, why did the amendment from the Ministry of Labour not write the budget expenditure, namely how much Kostis Hatzidakis predicts, the answer is simple. You didn't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u190	Mr. Brutsi, please. I'm going to have to reduce the speakers' time. You should know that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u191	I shall conclude, Mr President. The 2021 budget was twenty-five billion four hundred and fifty-one million. In the budget we have voted on. While for 2020 there were twenty-four billion eight hundred twenty-five million. Mr. Alexiadis, you will understand why you are a man of the economy. This means that the Treasury provided for in the budget of 2021, 626 million more for outstanding pensions. So the forecasts of Kostis Hatzidakis, the Ministry of Labour for the advance payment of pensions to outstanding pensions, are included in 626 million. That's the reality. That is the truth and the answer to those colleagues who have asked about this issue. In short, both amendments are in the right direction and will ease, we will give a breath to a world in need of money in terms of outstanding pensions. I believe that the new ADAF with its new salary for its employees will actually provide incentives and efficiency for the common goal of combating tax evasion and increasing tax revenue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u192	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u193	Mrs. Xenonanakopoulou, I'm listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u194	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I'm not used to saying inaccurate. I'm very careful when I'm put right in what I'm saying. By official EKA figures on June 30, 2019, when the SYRIZA government handed over, the outstanding main pensions were a hundred twenty-five thousand seventy-five. Mr Brutsis talks about an answer he gave in October, four months after he was Minister. I also did not just give the element of the hundreds of sixty a pension awarded in 2020. It was also correct with evidence from EKKA that in 2017 it was a hundred seventy-five thousand and in 2018 two hundred six thousand, while in 2019 it was a hundred twenty-three thousand three hundred and twenty-four. So I think that is the best answer in terms of what the flow of pensions was like. Mr Brutsis, rather than opposition to the opposition, I think that what he said should better address them to the government. It is clear that when Mr Hatzidakis says he has received a ravage, EVA, and brings today's amendment, it is a confession of failure of the eighteen months of the government and its own minister. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mrs. Xenogiannakopoulou. Our President, Mrs Sakova from Mera25, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u196	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me to say that I would not ask for the floor, because I believe that the President of our parliamentary group has referred very carefully to the bill. But I have to intervene in this debate because we all have to deal with a very difficult situation together, unprecedentedly, I, in the years I have been in this Chamber and I am serving political life. We again have a new amendment from Mr Augias, on the amendment he had brought up some time ago. It is more unpleasant, I think, for the Members of this House. For you will be invited to vote in favour. I would ask you if you really have any, ladies and gentlemen, count how many times Mr Augias has put you to legislate on the same subject. To change, in other words, a legal amendment - and not all. That's never happened before. How many times will you have to vote for sports archivisms? And how many times are you going to defer them? Each legislative proposal has a perspective and predictability for less than two months. So he's coming back, Mr. Aggenakis, with a new arrangement. He exposed you to age limits for the members of administrations. It imposed on you the limits of your terms. It makes you rescheduling the antiquities with various pretexts. So the concept of good lawmaking has become a rag in the hands of the Undersecretary of Sports. But unfortunately it seems he's not alone. Other governmental and institutional factors are involved in this unacceptable process as far as their competence and jurisdiction are concerned. The Minister's personal anguish exhausts the immediate intention of party control in the administrations of sports clubs, federations and associations. If this is the only object of government policy in sport, at last, solve it in another way. Let us make a ministerial decision, perhaps together with Mr Chrysochidis and appoint administrations of his choice to finish this story at last. It has not brought any provision, nor one, concerning the substance of sports activity in Greece. He's forced Greek sport to remain operational, not to say inappropriate. It's completely unreasonable for him, although we're in the Olympic year. Although he mentioned earlier that we have the Olympic Games in just four months from now, he has made no reference to incomplete and inappropriate infrastructure for Olympic preparation. Speaking of which, I should like to say to him that they have huge issues in our country's field, such as the PAOK, the OAS, Painiana, Saint Cosmas. There is currently no open space for the athletes of the track, the only ones were fighting at the SEF the day before yesterday, since the Minister had for twice cancelled days which were prerequisite days for their great struggles. He did not refer to clubs that are already flirting with the lack of money. He did not mention the fact that he has reduced or I will say he has cut off the exceptional grant, so coaches and athletes for six months are now unpaid. And he thinks he can give two grand to the unions to keep them alive. But you will allow me to say that those who legalise all this unacceptable situation are you, ladies and gentlemen of the House, with your silence, tolerance and your vote. I wanted to add something I forgot before, and I want to say it because it is very important. As I had a conversation with the champions of the track, neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister took into account the personal letter of anxiety they sent to him, not only for their own personal career in sport, but generally for the future of sport. I would like to ask, then, where Mr. Aygeakis draws the ability and authority to rally you in this way. And when will you tolerate this an entire party, an entire parliamentary group? When will you accept to devaluate your political dignity and follow his choices compellingly? How long will the domination of party discipline be so brutally trampled into your parliamentary conscience? Today, it brings you a new amendment, since it sees that its methadone so far will not have the desired effect. What I told you before. New changes, therefore, to the way in which antiquities have been carried out, today that antiquities have already been announced in all sports federations. That is what my colleagues have said earlier. New ministerial attack on the destruction of the autonomy of sports clubs, federations and associations and the abolition of the Civil Code and their statutes. Let us see some specific points: Firstly, the possibility of using means of technology, information and communication for conducting antiquities is institutionalised without being mandatory. However, it is necessary to use the state-owned ‘ZEEA’ platform. Secondly, it is now stipulated that candidates shall be declared at least five days before the archivings, unless a longer period is foreseen. This is a raw state intervention that abolishes the respective statutory arrangements. Let us say that these two points are details of which we could go along with them. Let's go to the next ministerial inspirations. It stipulates that general meetings for all sports antiquities will be held with a three-member editorial committee consisting only of lawyers - this has never been done before! In other words, it is only from outside members, without any participation of the body it votes for. When and in what elections did this happen again anywhere in the world and not here in these elections that Mr Augerakis put! Can you tell us where else this is? Where have you seen it and why do you want it? It abolishes the commissions that he made you vote, ladies and gentlemen, last month in here. It also imposes deadlines for requesting and defining legal associations twenty-five and fifty respectively days before the general assemblies. That's a purpose, too. It is a poor thing to do. Nowadays, with the general meetings already held in many cases, there is no objective possibility of complying with these deadlines. So we still have a ministerial deferral method. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I would like another minute if I may.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u197	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u198	Fourthly, in addition to the completely basic provision for electronic voting, all the rest, the conditions, the procedure and the way it is to be carried out will be determined by a joint decision of the Ministers for Sports and Digital Governance to be adopted. And that's good legality. Finally, it provides for the transfer of declared antiquities only by a ministerial decision by Mr Augarian himself. Our opposition, therefore, to the amendment is also reasonable and I would say to you that it is more or less anticipated. What is crucial for the quality of governance, but also for our own democracy, is what will be the attitude of the Coupling. Will you once again follow the path of unfair and unprecedented state interventions, as a Minister draws him up with successively failed interventions? This is a tragic case that only damage to Greek sport and that alone can be done. I address all of you, ladies and gentlemen. We do not just have an issue of opposition here. Most people in here know me very well. Here a crime is being committed against Greek sport. I'm sure you understand that. We're not allowed to become accomplices to what Mr. Aggeakis is right now trying to get through. In any case, I believe that this should be stopped. The future of sport, but also the quality of our democracy, depends on our consciences and our consciences in this House. In conclusion, I would also like to say this because it spoke of 'feud and captain', phrases that it loves in a particular way because it obviously also creates a great impression in the world. We then reserve - look at what I say - the completion of the antiquities that we will have the opportunity and the time to talk about many, interventions, pressures, threats, all that we have and what we have to come into this Chamber, which I believe will make some people ashamed and, above all, will make the Minister, Mr Augarians, disgrace himself. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mrs. Sacorafa. The Parliamentary Representative of the Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrinis, is called in Stepma, who I am sure will be consistent, because when others speak more, he is protesting strongly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, no current was found for one or two days over two hundred and fifty thousand households in Attica. Now that we are talking about the thirty thousand households for a third continuous day have no power, and for several hours they have been left without water. So you understand that the last thing they want to hear is the knots among those who have a responsibility today or in 2017 and an effort to set aside each other for who did not do what the national roads had to open or not to have these phenomena. The Autonomous Ministry of Citizen Protection, which was set up precisely to prevent these cases and to mitigate the effects of extreme phenomena, what did it do? On the first day he closed the highway, thinking that he did his duty, of course also exempting the concessionaire from a compensation clause, on the second day night he declared areas in emergency, with thousands of households already being twenty-four hours without electricity and just the night of the second day he asked for the assistance of the army, the firefighting to clear the roads and collect the fallen trees. And today, Mr Hardalias, on issues of cut-off electricity, referred us to the President of the TEDEN, in an unprecedented attempt to put away the overwhelming responsibilities that he deserves. We, the Change Movement, congratulate the staff of the DEDN, the firefighters, the army for their superhuman efforts to return thousands of households to normality, which, unfortunately, does not exist, since Mr Mitsotakis' nonexistent state thinks that everything can be exhausted in communication. In the words the government was ready, it went bankrupt. And here you fell out, gentlemen of the government. But you didn't just fall out here. We're going to the development issue that Mr. Stakoras, up to a few days ago, talked about 4.8%. SCOPE RATING provides 3.5%, ING 2%, the Commission 3.5%, without having incorporated the consequences of the current lockdown. Of course, the main donors of growth, based on the Government's scenario, are the increase in private consumption and the rapid increase in private investment. Where are both of them? Estimates of revenues from tourism do not exceed 6.5-7 billion, when the budget of the financial staff was talking about 11 billion months ago. January's revenues were reduced by 812 million euros. And, unfortunately, it goes on all the time. But that is not your basic problem with the government, Minister. The main problem is that you have no money to give. Because in the 5 out of the 1.5 billion that you had announced, you are actually paying a little less than 1.2 billion, after you have put several cuts. What you have left behind is a 6 - 500 - million - year - old baptist, when part of the money you use comes from the Public Investment Program. So you have no money and tell the Greek citizens clearly, the professionals who fight for their future. However, it is a question of how you allocate this little money you have to give, 1.5 billion Returnee, 500 million fixed costs, and that is 1 billion from the non-return of 50% of the first three cycles of the returnee. Because according to your data, eight hundred thousand companies have been damaged because of the pandemic, and ELSTAT calculates the loss of the turnover more than 40 billion. So we have one of the companies that have money and liquidity from too many sources - and I say this because Mr Stakoras has caused us once again, when he has spoken about billions from both banks and the repayable - without being assessed whether this money has been used for the needs of businesses, for the repayment of commitments or simply ended up in bank accounts. And now the government gives the opportunity, these businesses that took the fat money to get even more as the wall grows. So that's the one picture. On the other hand, there are thousands of businesses waiting for a few thousand euros to survive. We have told you that a ceiling has to be introduced regardless of the Community ceilings. But that's not all. We are listening - you did not answer the other day - that the grant of risk loans, and since Mr Stakoras has now referred to the 'Bridge 2', it will be excluded that the companies that owed pre-cursors will be excluded. In other words, over 70% of the free trade and small businesses in the country will not be able to benefit from loans. At the same time, you who are agreed to be excluded from the aid to these undertakings are freeing them from 1 June, giving only the platform of the extrajudicial as an option to all of them. With what incomes, however, of which workers and of which businesses to meet the requirements of the banks through the platform. Perhaps this explains the statement by Mr Stakoura after the report by the Commission, which speaks of the need for a differentiated structure of the economy in order to be less vulnerable, so that thousands of businesses are closed down. Mr Stagioras himself, of course, asks the Eurogroup for a financial relaxation, because the economy depends, as he said, largely on the service sector. It does, however, apply strict criteria to the returnee, so 350 million are now needed by businesses, whose damage it invokes to get fiscal relaxation for the country. At the same time, the Minister of Finance itself is not asking for relaxation as the president of the liquidity board from the banks, so that banks do not give money to the market, since, for 2021, they have only discounted 4-5 billion liquidity, and in the new Development Bank's programme with loans of up to EUR 50,000, all eight thousand businesses have access, ladies and gentlemen. At the same time, you are announcing immediate relief measures, such as the prolongation of the debts of the first quarantine until the end of 2021, but you require citizens within ten days to pay more than 1 billion for traffic charges, even though the restrictive measures have not used cars for almost half the time. You are making a payment of the first quarantine payment for the end of 2021, I said it before, but you leave eight hundred thousands of professionals to pay the debited clearing agents of the FBI by the end of March. Do you really believe, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that professionals can respond to the twenty-four and forty-eight-dollar arrangements you bring for tax and insurance obligations? With the regulation of 12 and twenty-four instalments we had, on the one hand, a delay of EUR 14 billion, on the other hand an extra 6 billion, because no one was paying because it could not regulate and, of course, the state was not recovering. We have proposed a hundred and twenty doses and a 30% haircut for the consistent regulation. After all, you, too, anticipate many doses and haircuts. Our difference from the New Democracy is that we want these arrangements to be made by the state and not by the banking system. You stick to the platform that will be controlled by the banking system. This year we will have the lowest declared incomes since 2002, on which less tax rates will be applied. However, you insist that you receive more revenue. In the first two months of 2021, we have 1.35 billion more taxes than 2020. We have a standstill, and you have not answered so far what you will do with our fellow citizens' sub-categories who will be taxed and charged, what you will do with the harmonisation of objective trade values that will bring up seventeen more taxes and insist that the citizens will pay 8 million less. The Minister said about reducing the 2020 tax advance. He didn't say 2021. All this therefore creates a package of tax obligations, which makes the revenue collection targets unrealistic. And I fear that under pressure from the target and the increase in revenues to cover this hole that has already begun to be created, I repeat only 812 million in Genoa, will we see any excessive charges of fines against fair and unjust ones? And the goal of the collection is a service that, while it is part of the Greek state, operates as an independent one, since with the boulder of SYRIZA and the government of SYRIZA, which today says that it is not its own property, but it and it has agreed and actually brought it to the vote, we have the autonomy of the Independent Public Income Authority. It therefore concentrates this bill on the reaction of all actors, despite the fact that employees are not financially affected. On the contrary, economic gains could also be an incentive. But why does everyone disagree? Even the Members of the New Democracy, who at least took the floor in committee, expressed a number of disagreements, even if the Minister today invoked the document of the Tax Office. I was expecting Mr. Brutsi to do this, but the Minister of Finance to bring in the House and invoke a document from the Tax Office, I have never seen it before, at least in recent years. Who could disagree, ladies and gentlemen, with a system of remuneration in the public sector, which would lead to increased pay and faster growth? But are those guaranteed by the provisions of this draft law? No way. Is that a procurer for similar changes throughout the government? Do we want this model, the commander to define procedures and conditions for wage developments, while simple legislative powers are given to him? A commander of absolute authority, with superpowers, with minimal democratic accountability, overpowering towards taxpayers and workers. A commander who is not evaluated, but assesses all and mainly individuals and not units and the efficiency of their work. We have also heard the crocodile tears of the SYRIZA rapporteur who spoke about the chapter 'ADAF next day', since this bill, as has been said, is a commitment by Mr. Tsipras's previous government, as well as many others that SYRIZA agreed to, did not bring them to the vote and today he is trying to convince us that he did not believe them and was forced to agree. We have also tabled an amendment to the personal difference between young workers and those who go to the ADP, so that there are no injustices and different wage regimes and we call on the Ministry to see it, examine it and accept it, if it really believes that there should be equal treatment. I shall finish my position by referring to the amendments. On the amendment by the Ministry of Labour and on temporary retirement, what can I say? It is the government's absolute 'Waterloo' to award pensions. Now we have heard, in this Chamber, again celebrating insurance reform by a government which, after eighteen months, has realised the problem, with three hundred and fifty thousand outstanding, gentlemen, subsidiary and one-sided, with the UAA members not even receiving temporary retirement and one must either have an incurable illness or be in danger of losing his home, so that he can receive an exceptional pension. This was inherited by the New Democracy Government. He takes computers by law in Parliament, by way of derogation from the provisions of the Rules. It brings back employees retired, hires project manager and now you say you will give a pension deposit. I wish, but it is a matter for which you really are not entitled to speak, firstly, and secondly, we want to hope that at some point it will be launched and solved so that we do not have those tribulations that suffer thousands of people insured in the country. And since we talked about the OGA, and I am elected to a district in the province, I would like to say that there are thousands of insurance cases that have been waiting for them to know by phone, even though and when they will be retired. I don't know if that's what the ministry and the government have done. I hope she's busy now. There is something in the amendment from the Ministry of Labour that we do not understand. Here you are right to incorporate 12-month-old accommodation into support measures by subsidising employers' contributions. You do not put travel agencies, since the link is uniform and I think that all sectors in the tourism sector should be treated in the same way and in the same way. We have an amendment to the property owners again, but they are being extended. But there are too many problems in the process. Several owners, now that we are talking, have not even been compensated for November and have not received part of the rent they are entitled to, because there is sloppy, just on the basis of the decisions, because the rent was in the middle of the month. Finally - and thank you very much, Mr President - I would like to appeal to the government. There is a request from "Facro Blind Greece", calling for an extension for the elections. It has been put to the Ministry of Labour this request, because in one month from now the banks have announced that they will not accept the administration, if elections have not been held or if no extension has been granted by law. Because there was a debate with the government and there was also the promise that it would be included in the Ministry of Labour's amendment, and unfortunately it is not, I think it should be taken care of. We understand that in these circumstances, people who are members of the "Greek Bouflon" cannot go to electoral procedures with restrictive measures, which are unknown when they will stop to return to normality. I would like, please very much, to see it with sensitivity and humanity, as you have seen it in similar cases. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr Katrin. I will now give the floor to Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou, then to Mr Spanakis, and then the parliamentary representative from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Karathanasopoulos, who has asked himself to speak after two Members. Good for him!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u202	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u203	Here you go, Mr. Scandalides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u204	Excuse me for interrupting the procedure. This bill, after all the amendments and all that we are discussing, requires a thorough, if you like, positioned by all of us, and I have the impression that this process and still having so many speakers will come the time one, two and we will not be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u205	We are considering reducing the speaking time, Mr Scandalides. We'll see.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u206	My suggestion is to talk to those who are to speak by 10:00, and tomorrow morning to become the seconds and talk to those who have left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u207	You're absolutely right. The Bureau is aware of this, and it is being done at this time. You'll be briefed soon. We're aware of it. Mrs Papanatsiou has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government's legislative initiative is going on at an unrelenting pace and of course it concerns bills which include issues that raise reactions. It is really a sign of social analgesia and comes from the neoliberal views of the ruling party. But there's also an element of fear behind it. From the education bill, to our bills or the Lebanese bill, they come to debate bills, with Parliament operating marginally, with security staff with MPs limiting their meetings and, at the same time, a ban on meetings. So, they probably don't have the social resonance and compassion you'd like to have. Fear the reactions. So in this bill, we have a bill that all of the actors disagrees. That should tell us something. There are also signs of individual disagreement. For example, we consider that fundamental structural positions are affected at the core of dependent labour. The adoption of a system that you propose turns wages into an unstable and predetermined. We believe that the nature of the service and of the working relationships in the public sector is affected. What you have advertised as a major change, essentially, introduces a non-measurable system in the most neuro-algal sector in the public sector, that of tax and customs services. The notified difference of public services is to safeguard our common interest. You turn this into a opaque, complex, competitive and unstable system. The regulation of the bill, in our view, will create three-speed workers. Others at high levels, others at the other regional offices of the AIA and others at the Ministry. We, of course, have a structural disagreement on the wage connection with the position and assessment as it is being introduced. It is problematic that the evaluation process is punishable in relation to the performance of the special remuneration, in relation to criteria which are not specified but left to the governor's regulatory decisions. In other words, there is a link between the wages paid, but that is directly related to the post with specific tasks, with its assessment. But what are you doing to ensure an objective and impartial evaluation? Is the wage and salary development of a public worker based on the governor's decisions, or even ministerial decisions, which can be changed at any time at any time at all, rather than by specific and stable rules? The evaluation is a tool to enhance the efficiency of employees. However, its link with the basic body of the staff's pay system directly affects the public service nature of the staff. But it also undermines the sense of collectiveness within the service. Mr. Chakalotos told you before. The common objective of the public interest is to eliminate and incorporate employees in disputes, customer relations with evaluators. We anticipate that it will bring about a number of problems at the level of cooperation. The draft law, with the exception of the wage bill, includes a special fee, which will be paid according to the level of jobs. The criteria, the way of ranking, the training of the ranking, the evaluation, the ranking of jobs, the ranking of officials in jobs, all will be regulated by decision of the commander as well. What are we talking about here today? We must give the authority without having a clear picture. But something we would like to know is if the Minister is aware of the governor's plans. Does he also agree or pass on the responsibilities? A number of memos have been sent to you, as to us, newly appointed officials, who are being treated in a different way, as the subject of the personal dispute is not resolved. And the arrangement you bring will be permanently in a more unfavourable position than former employees. We suggest you see it again. You also need to see the issue of transferees again in order to deal administratively with the harmonisation of the postgraduate degree, as we understand that for administrative reasons these people get a reduced wage through personal differences, without being their responsibility. I have given you our general concerns, but unfortunately, we do not have the whole picture. Since the new salary is at the cost of 48 million, it would be advisable to present us, before they are published, with the decisions that are to be made so that a more extensive consultation can be held there as well. Moreover, the ADP is accounted for in the Committee on Economic Affairs of the House. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time the government has once again taken up an eighty-six-page amendment which we are called upon to put into place within the day, and even after the end of the committees. The provisions concern, with the exception of rents, a large number of issues which are not relevant to the pandemic. The method of setting up and tax exemptions for family offices and the method of suspending dates for public contracts is a problem. Also, in respect of property that the public will not exercise rights, a committee is set up to decide on the way and the procedure between private individuals and the public. What are the criteria? What will the people have to prove and how will the committee decide? We must note that this has never been done in a period of normality of parliamentary work. While the House operates with reduced staff, while invoking everything about the pandemic, you continue to legislate as if nothing had happened. This must be stopped immediately. We cannot consent to procedures that make democracy, institutions and make it difficult for parliamentary dialogue. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mrs Papanatsiou, and thank you for keeping time. Let me inform you that the seven-minute time will be respected and we should all be impeccable in this. The sitting will be closed today. We did not reduce, as you saw the speakers, this decision was taken by the Bureau. Mr Spanakis has the floor for seven minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a great deal has been said today in this Chamber. However, we have all taken our conclusions to this meeting. If we wanted to give a title to the debate on the bill, which concerns a very serious issue, which concerns the salary of officials of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, it would be as follows, that SYRIZA continues to be treated as civil servants. I'd say he's still pretending to be new employees. I would like to begin by asking seven questions, which the SYRIZA colleagues would like to answer, not to me personally, but to answer thousands of tax and customs officials and other ADI officials, who waited for four and a half years, who heard lies from the lips of the Ministers, the Deputys, the State Secretarys. So I'm asking. Have you solved the time-consuming problems of the ADP? Were you back to solve the problems of everyday life faced by ADP officials in decentralized and central services? What have you been doing four and a half years for new employees? What was your concern for young employees, for those who chose to come to the Treasury, who chose to come to the public sector, who could have a brilliant career in the private sector, but have preferred to come to offer their knowledge, their lives, their experience, their career in the Ministry of Finance? What changes have you brought, gentlemen of SYRIZA, to decentralised services to improve the everyday life of both workers and citizens? I'm asking you. Do you know that even today paperwork for the printer was purchased by the officials themselves? That was the situation we inherited. I would like to ask you one more question. Four and a half years of categorisation, you left the ball to each other to degrade the ILO. Why did you abolish preventive control at its base? And in order not to think that I am taking all this out of my head, I will submit to the Procedural Communication of 15 April 2016 of the Workers' Association in the DU, entitled "To delete thousands of cases of the ILO, abolish the preventive control and zeroing fines for the offenders". This is an announcement when in the office of the working party they were people who were SYRIZA officials who drank coffee with Mr. Tsakalotos and Mr. Varoufakis. I'll testify to these in the Minutes, and if anyone wants to, they can disprove me. So why did you leave the services understaffed? What was your plan? You must finally tell the Greek people. Why, for four and a half years, more than a thousand divisions at department or management level, head of department or management level have been assigned, on your day? And you come to this Chamber today to move our finger and talk to us about dignity! Seventh question: when did we open a substantial dialogue with the federations and for the demands of young employees? Can I remind you of pictures from Nicky Street? But let's leave this in the past. They will not pay in any case the officials of the Independent Public Revenue Authority the counterattack between Niki and Karagiorgios Serbia. For many months this conflict has been at the expense of officials, at the expense of the services, at the expense of the daily lives of the citizens. I would also like to submit two reports from the Workers' Association in the DUs, which were talking about the subordinated services of the Ministry of Finance on your day, on the SYRIZA government. We also need to talk about requests that you have not been able to resolve. In a specific debate, a meeting with the then commander of the AIA, the answer was, under an Euklidis Tsakalotou Minister, as to the location profiles that need to be assessed was the following. He said he was obliged to apply by law the required up to 31-12-17, in order to establish a place of employment. What was your position then? So stop this hypocrisy and tell the Greek people the truth. Today comes a piece of legislation which all Parliament's wings must vote on, leave behind small and simple excuses, because it is a payroll that brings ahead public sector services, an independent authority, specific sectors that offer the budget implementation, as far as the revenue side is concerned, and makes it European services. Indeed, it creates those conditions and incentives so that workers can work and reward as they must. Let us not forget that officials of the Independent Public Revenue Authority have left brilliant private sector careers to come to the ADP. We will not allow anyone to put in the same bag those people who are fighting the front line for the implementation of the state budget, particularly in times of health crisis, as today. I invite you and I invite you to go together to the DU Glyfada, to the DU Kallithea, to the DU Ilioupoli, to see the race these people give. So it's a first justice. And if you want, I will accept that along with this vindication there is also a great dialogue on improvements. Yes, many improvements need to be made in the right direction and they need to be made. And there may also be some injustices and distortions, and they are called through a fertile dialogue to solve them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u211	Close, Mr. Spankee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u212	For example, we are in a situation where our customs have additional needs. And I call on the Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance, who have shown particular sensitivity, to see the issue of thirteen workers at customs and at the DUs with a 'STAGE' programme for many years and have been integrated into staff, and at the moment we must do something to stay on duty. We also need to see some differences, because we should not go into a division of the tax sector or the customs sector. Some who serve in services outside the ADP stay and enter the special payroll.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u213	Close, Mr. Spankee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u214	Ladies and gentlemen, in today's bill, substantial, critical amendments have been tabled to resolve issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u215	You don't have time, Mr. Spaniard. You've been out a lot.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u216	And I'm closing, Mr. President. I've heard colleagues from the Opposition talk about benefits. We're bringing the temporary pensions. We are resolving a question that exists, a problem that we have inherited, and very soon we shall proceed with the award of pensions as necessary. We are also motivating businesses, as is the extension of the rent exemption for business leases for March. In conclusion, I would like to say that all the wings have a moral obligation to the members of the AACC to vote in favour of this bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr Spankee. I would ask colleagues, in order to be able to get the programme out, to have a timer next to them, or what exists down there on the right, to keep the time at seven minutes, so that we do not have to reduce the time. We said - you weren't, Mr. Scandalides - we're going to go properly. You'll talk too. Parliamentary spokesman of the Communist Party of Greece, Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today's bill at a time when we would call it a revealing juncture, a revealing juncture of the state's character. A state that, however you are trying to convince us that it is neutral, is deeply classic. It's an urban state. And we see this, for example, how that state in today's conditions managed the effects of snowfall itself. There was no substantial measure to limit the impact, even though it was well aware and warned. The tactic that followed was “seeing and doing” and the tragic deficiencies in the design of snowfall in the media and also in the staff that it made available were confirmed. And this whole situation is precisely the result of class policy which has put the profit at the centre of satisfying the policies of the state at the expense of satisfying people's needs, at the expense of protecting human life. So, for example, we still see, after two and three days, thousands of households experience under a cut-off electricity regime. Who's to blame for that? We call it clear. At the core of the effects and effects of current holidays when it snows, when it rains, when there are fires, it is nothing but the policy of liberating electricity. This policy is responsible for the frequent, frequent blackouts of electricity. This policy is responsible for energy poverty under which tens of thousands of people are experiencing strata and popular families in our country. The division of the vertically integrated structure of PPC, another supply company, other distribution, the creation of DEDDI and IPTO with subordinated services, are companies that mainly exploit contractors with huge cuts in maintenance and upgrading of the network. So the security of the network seems to be costly and is being used precisely as a cost, even though they share tens of billions of euros as grants to RES investments sown in the mountains of our country. In this situation, too, all governments are jointly responsible. The situation in the electricity market and in the energy networks is the result of government choices, for example by the 2011 Act on Energy in PASOK Governments or the 2016 Management Code on Government SYRIZA - ANEL. In addition to power cuts, we had a failure to move the public transport to Athens. On the other hand, we had the pressure, the threats from employers to "cut their necks" so that they can go to their jobs properly. You had the unacceptable status of distributors who were blackmailed by businesses to make distributions under the specific conditions of ice cream. We had the end of the highway for a few centimeters of snow. Here too, responsibility for maintaining the national road is not a state responsibility. It's the concessionaire's responsibility. So you have made a very big gift to the concessionaire not to take any measures at all to keep the national roads clean and open from snow. Indeed, Minister, as a representative of the government, will the concessionaires request compensation? As a result, the concession contracts provide for compensation for the concessionaires where there are emergency conditions for the non-implementation of the transport operation. Are these the circumstances like this now? So instead of these people making sure they have open national roads, will you compensate them over? And from this point of view, the question that is wrong is what is to blame. And this question was answered by Mr Chakalotos, reading a quote of the criticism that New Democracy made when it was in opposition. What's changed? We had a rotation of the roles and the same argument from the respective government and from the opposition. Because they're trying to cover up that everyone together is responsible for this situation. So we say it clearly. It is not a question of the government's inability to take measures to protect human life, but it is a matter of options and priorities that all governments have done. Why should we have an urban state which is powerful when it is necessary to suppress the reactions of workers, students and pensioners, which is flexible when it is necessary to satisfy the interests and designs of business groups, when it is effective for the implementation of anti-grass policy - such as anti-grassroots tax policy - and, at the same time, present as 'January', that it is incapable, that it is disgusting in matters relating to human life, earthquakes, floods, fires, snows, snowfall? So it is a question of exactly what orientation, content, class character is that state. And this is confirmed by today's bill, which we are discussing on staff management issues and the payroll of the ADP officials. Of course, the creation of the AIA was a Memorandum of Understanding adopted by the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL, New Democracy and PASOK. So it is a flare for who has the paternity for the creation of the ADI or for how the tax collection operation will be organised, whether it will be an independent authority in one form or another, or whether it will be an address belonging to the Ministry of Finance. It is precisely because the governments concerned are legislating on tax policy issues and the IAEA is implementing it. And all this legislation and application is at the expense of people's incomes. Really, let's make a historical regression. Was there a different approach from the tax espractices ever before? Towards who were they turning around? The General Secretariat of Public Revenue, which was responsible, who was pushing? The self-employed, the populace and the households. At the same time, the large business groups were staying in the uncontrollable of cases and also the limitation. We have the same thing with the AIA. In fact, we say quite clearly that these measures and regulations contained in today's bill are also the precursor to other public services, both in terms of how they operate and in terms of the management of workers and their wage rights. After all, the Minister stressed that you want to implement a modern pay system in the ADP. What is this modern pay system that the government wants to apply to the ADP? Individual payroll. So it is clear that it is being thrown into the basket of useless people and collective bargaining and collective bargaining in the public sector. All governments had thrown it out in the basket of unusables, both for the private sector and for the public sector. Secondly, the allowance will be granted on the basis of individual objectives. So what does it mean? You need to organize a tax raid so that you can get the allowance. So, through this process, what does the government want to inspire, as the Minister, Mr Staikoras, said? Improving the efficiency of the tax authority and creating a framework for tax compliance with the people who are naughty. Thirdly, it is the link between wages and jobs. And this contour of the job with whom it will be sent, and it will be at the discretion of the chief and commander of the ADP. What do you want to create on the substance? A body of praetorians within AIA - that is what you want to create - which will be exactly "fire and axe" against workers, against people's strata and further intensify working conditions. That is, therefore, the effective mechanism that you want to set up in the ADP, so that you can achieve the anti-Halle tax targets. On the other issues that are included, let me make one, two references to the time left for me. For the pension arrangement, does the government say that it will quickly give the advances on pensions? Are you serious? You've changed your law here. Didn't your law say that it would be paid as an advance of 80% of the pension for wages in the last 12 months? Is that what you'll give them? No, you'll give them 360 to 380 euros. So you're going to give them a tip. You don't give them a pension advance. You tip them and not an advance in the pension so that they can survive under terrible conditions. A similar logic is also apparent in the sudden amendment brought by Mr Aegakis, which is an amendment to the amendment. Instead of interesting the Minister of Sports the problems that athletes have experienced because sport and, in general, sport and sport in a permanent lockdown regime, it is exactly how the Minister and the government will control federations. That is why it also brings in this obscure amendment that quite clearly violates the statutes of the sports federations themselves, and in substance the Minister himself will determine the electoral procedures, which have already been called, by nominating the merciful committees of his choice, by moderating electronic votes that are not inconsistent. In this way, the government is trying to control sports federations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And before I close, Mr President - and I shall close immediately - I shall make a little mention. We were truly impressed by the introduction of the special speaker of the Greek Solution, who addressed the JRC. It must not be the fault of the JRC when the Greek Solution adopts proposals and arguments a policy that the Golden Dawn has used and used. Another has to be searched. [[At this point the Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS, takes over the presidential office.]] In this respect, therefore, I shall conclude, Mr President. We say it clearly to the workers, to the populace. They must show no alibis, but also no confidence in the state, whether it is finally called or a digital state. It is and remains a bourgeois state as well as its mechanisms. It is precisely through these policies by the urban state that it seeks to manipulate the people, to reduce their demands, to teach him to live with suffering, to the dangers of his life, and on the contrary, there are all the conditions to meet modern needs and to protect his life. But that means conflict with the causes of the problems. And these reasons are named, they are the policies that support priorities and serve their monopolies and interests. In the face of this, it must conflict with governments and the urban state. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u219	Thank you. Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the ready-to-face New Democracy is always unprepared in practice. It was neither prepared to keep the national road open nor to shut it down. Nor, of course, was it prepared to inform citizens in good time, causing confusion and damage. Unprepared everywhere. And despite the struggle of the workers of the TEDO and the municipalities, thousands of households remain without electricity and water. The state finally failed and stripped of it. Following the concentration of power in the governor's court, decisions are made there and announced by the ministers. If they walk, Mr. Mitsotakis is credited, while if they fail, they are charged to the ministers. The information control mechanism is always present to implement the propaganda plan. The bill we are debating has twenty-four articles and three amendments which have sixteen articles, and it is revealing on the one hand that Mr Mitsotakis is seeking to establish in the country and, on the other hand, the interests he serves with the exploitation of the pandemic and the impoverishment of the citizens. It's not a formal matter of bad law-making. Here, of course, we have poor and, above all, undersecretary. We have a legitimate purpose, a lack of transparency in the management of public money, and a reset of right-wing ideas. As far as the amendments are concerned, Mr Hatzidakis says in the first place. "If you want to make an advance payment of EUR 346 in respect of the temporary pension in respect of the normal pension, then you will vote together with Article 5 of the amendment for direct awards, commissions and service contracts without tenders, and even without a ceiling, on top, without an opinion of the Independent Public Contract Authority." The amendment is clearly unconstitutional. He has to retire. The independent authority shall be consulted. Finally, Mr Hatzidakis said that the New Democracy would deal with the issues relating to outstanding pensions. Why does it not implement the law passed by Parliament and by itself five months ago on the payment of a temporary pension? The Government of New Democracy has received three hundred thousand pension cuts from the unexplained SYRIZA who raised the problem - and now its MPs have had the nerve to speak at the same time - and has made them three hundred sixty thousand without the requests for the last quarter. The hundred and seventy-three thousand main outstanding pensions are without the last quarter. Of course, Mr Hatzidakis will postpone the problem and increase even more time, claiming that he gave the 360 euros. He needs a radical solution. We have tabled the proposal. Balls can't give solutions. Mr. Hatzidakis, with a purely ideological choice you flew out of Law 2643/98 the children of the National Resistance Strugglers, since there is virtually no age object. Your intervention was ideological. There is, of course, a question for the children of the seven-year resistance, which are also being thrown out. But it seems it's none of your business. It's the opinion of the Supreme Special Court, Mr. Hatzidakis says to us as legalist. The decision of the S.A., Mr. Hatzidakis, on pensioners' retrospectives, don't you know it? Did you falsify her and remove 2.5 billion from the pensioners' pockets from the back-up subsidiary and one-off? So here, we're asking you to tell us you'll get this set back and bring it along with the ratification of the S.H.E.D.'s decision. Then you'll be legal. No compliance on a case-by-case basis and theme. Second amendment by the Ministry of Sports. He says Mr. Augias, I legislate the electronic procedure in the federation elections, but the electronic poll system will be in my office for safeguarding. Besides, the choice of the electronic process is optional. It has brought five amendments to correct the next one. Thus, in any federations of their administrations, in pandemic conditions, they cannot hold elections, cease until 31 March 2021, and if Mr Aygeakis has mercy, he will give them ten more days. Extortion, the trap set up. Or elections are held with guaranteed results, as the latent language of the explanatory statement says, or administrations are stopped. Not all of them, though. The management of the Paralympic Committee is extended until October. Mr. Aeggeakis invokes Tokyo, which is summer as if the Olympics were not in the summer, as if a series of other global federations were not there. The truth is, you don't get the numbers. So we are provoking you today and say the following proposal: give everyone, without exception, the administrations up to October as a ceiling - those who manage to hold elections in the next period will enter with new administrations - either physically present and health protocols or guaranteed electronic elections. Not with the government platform, but with the ILO or any other certified, independent. No government. Do you want to nationalize volunteering? What kind of liberals are you? Bring in a setting like we suggested and we're here. However, in opaque procedures and intentions, we do not even give a system that is inspired by the 1961 elections of violence and fraud, with the wrapping up of the fourth industrial revolution and Mr Pierrakakis. Ladies and gentlemen, as I mentioned at the outset, this bill for the management of AIA's human resources is a characteristic of the new regime. The ADP was created in application of the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum, you remember, the Antimony SYRIZA and ANLE to allocate revenues and collecting mechanism to creditors, together with the excess, the disposal of the national property for nine nine years. The requirements of the previous governments were unsatisfactoryly satisfied, after seventeen hours of negotiation, by the people. Tsipras and Kammenos. The New Democracy, together with SYRIZA, had passed the recommendation of the AIA, Mr.4389, a few days after the law had been passed. ...(not heard because of bad connection)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u221	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u222	I shall conclude, Mr President. And now, she's promoting these choices because they match her own agenda. Today I was amazed to hear Mr. Tsakalotos say that he was opposed to his law, and Mr. Alexiadis say that he implemented Varoufakis policies. What's SYRIZA after all? Subcontractor of Memorandums and Policies of others? We did not then agree or agree today. As far as the amendments are concerned, we will vote against the amendment by the Ministry of Sport and we will be placed with 'presents' in the others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u223	We continue with Mr Athanasio Ljupi from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill implementing the New Democracy policy. Evaluation is a self-evident process leading to a reward for those who show the mood for creation and elevation. The application of the rules applicable to the private economy to the benefit of the public administration has until recently been a foreign concept of Greek data. It is now time to have a modern culture of how the state should function. We cannot seek to promote growth and attract investment and, at the same time, to maintain a system that has been operating on the same terms for decades. The ADI has a central role in the process of collecting tax, customs and other public revenues and thus in the form of budgetary amounts. It is the independent authority with key responsibilities in dealing with tax evasion, paramilitary and smuggling. As is reasonable, the effective staffing of such an important independent authority requires executives with worthwhile experience and knowledge of this subject. The low wages that currently apply to the newly appointed were a deterrent to pursue a career in the ADP experienced market people. For this reason, a significant proportion of successors in ADP competitions, about one out of three, ultimately rejects jobs in ADP. The new salary for ADI depresses from educational qualifications the family situation and antiquity as the only criteria for determining wages. The payroll is rationalized, is of an objective nature and promotes the creative disposal of employees. The new provisions shall apply to permanent and pedigree officials, as well as to officials with regard to private employment, for an indefinite or fixed period, to posters and AACC staff members. Their remuneration shall include the basic salary, allowances, personal difference and the special fee established for the first time. In addition to basic wages, there is a family allowance, an allowance for remote border regions and a benefit for dangerous and unhealthy work. The Commander of the AACC may decide on the appropriate increase in the allowance for remote areas up to the amount of EUR 500 monthly. This is to recognize the important work carried out by officials in controlling incoming and outgoing persons and goods, as well as in combating tax evasion and smuggling. In addition, compensation is provided for work in excess of the compulsory time only in the event of exceptional seasonal or emergency needs. The payroll shall be ranked in steps of basic salary based on education and pre-service and job-based placement. It should be pointed out that the total earnings are involved in the calculation of the pension. The main originality of the bill lies in the fact that employees who in three consecutive annual evaluations receive a score equal to or greater than 95% are rewarded. In this case they take an extra wage step and rise faster on the wage scale. In the case of staff not positively assessed, there is provision for support by training procedures and more general practices to increase their performance. The special remuneration depends on the assessment of the job and the ranking of jobs. This is a wage development which does not automatically take place with the years of service, but requires the staff member to perform his duties properly. This fact is reflected by its involvement in the evaluation process. In fact, the special pay also relates to a pecuniary employee, who can receive 75% of the special pay in the first year and 90% in the second year. The personal difference is essentially integrated into it. The new provisions restored the injustice suffered by young workers who did not receive the personal difference and thus lacked wages against older employees. Another innovation is the goal award. It recommends a strong incentive for more efficient work. Again, participation in evaluation is a prerequisite. The bonus in question shall be granted to employees if the annual targets are met at or above 95%, or if they constitute a special award by decision of the AACC commander. Today's bill is an amendment to a long-awaited provision announced by the Minister of Labour. In response to the huge problem of late payment of pensions, for the first time all pensioners will receive an advance pension payment of between EUR 360 and EUR 384. It is the state's obligation to support people who have worked a life and are entitled to continue to live in a decent way at the stage of their retirement. In conclusion, today's bill ensures that no ADP employee receives less pay than he gets from tomorrow. The changes which come are only for the benefit of all employees. Equality does not mean a levelling-up. As Aristotle said, there is nothing more unequal than equal treatment of equals. We seek to have a state and a society that gives equal opportunities to all who can realize their dreams and ambitions. How each is going to make use of the opportunities offered to everyone depends on individual will, of course, on the desire of each citizen. The additional effort must be rewarded and welcomed. Today's bill opens the way for a fairer and efficient operation of the ADI, but mainly for a major change in the mindset that prevails in relation to the functioning of the state. It is the beginning of a comprehensive reconstruction of public administration on new more creative bases. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u225	And we thank you for the time savings. Mr Zachariadis has the floor, who is here in the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Mr President. How life brings them and while you're about to talk about the wages and human resources of the AIA, all of this is done with the "Mode" and it's obviously not possible to make a little mention. It snowed, then, and it's not the first time this has happened. But, unfortunately, the government seems to be acting as the first time. And the media is acting and acting like it's been the first time. Before the bad weather begins, the Holy Trinity - Mr Chrysochoidis, Mr Hardalias and Mr Petsas - assured us that all this is under control. You remember that. The triad of rabos had caught the bull from the horns. So here's what the government's organization is! Citizens without electricity, citizens without heating, citizens for many hours without water, citizens without information about when all this will be restored, citizens who were calling the relevant agencies and there was no one to answer them. 112 didn't work. And of course, look at what he says and someone who doesn't come from SYRIZA but comes from the conservative space, Mr. Manos. Mr Manos said: "Since I was a child, I have lived in Katali. We used to have snow in winter. Over the last few years, no. This year was the exception. General dissolution. I'm already thirty-six hours without electricity, so no heat and 12 hours without water. Information zero. That's how they imagine normality?' He said that yesterday afternoon at 6:00 Mr. Manos. But the question that should concern us is why is Mr Manos going to be indignant? For PPC that a life and he and others in the New Democracy were trying and trying to divide and divide its garments? Is it about the TEN that is being privatised through depreciation? Is he protesting about supposedly liberal rule that does not manage to mobilise the state that she systematically refuses, despises and slanders? Is there a lesson coming out of "Medea"? Of course, there is. We need prevention, infrastructure, operational strong intervention state. Mr. Hatzidakis calls the FBI a sack. Mr Hatzidakis, who today has this situation with the TEN. Mr. Hatzidakis has chosen to make the DEDO snail and moves the finger to dismantle the pension now. At this point we owe a great deal of thanks to those who work and fight in adverse conditions to restore the damage and functionality of infrastructure. We owe everything to them. Without them, our life would be inviolable. The Ministry of Labour yesterday made kind recommendations to employers on how to work at the delibery. When do we close our eyes in this gallery? Yesterday and the political system, but also the media, we forgot about the refugees and the migrants who were undone. Where's the Christmas climate of love and enthusiasm that floods all of us every year on December 25th? Is it going to be 50 days later? It is not only the issue of the incredible suffering of the citizens. For some of them, electricity is also connected to their lives if they belong to vulnerable groups. And the questions are a lot and they want answers. Why was S.H.I.E.L.D. Line 1 closed? Why did the Doukis Placentia-Airport Doukis line shut down on the subway? Such incapacity? Can't you keep four metal rails open? What about the highway? Why is it closing for so many hours on the highway? Who has the contractual obligation to keep the highway open? What are we paying tolls for when we use the highway? Should we go to the DEDEFOP where you want to privatise? What did you do to get him better equipped? I'll remind you what you did. You've raised the wages at the board. in the first half of 2020 with New Democracy, compared with 2019 when we were government twice and twice, depending on the occasion. Mr. Hatzidakis, who was then Minister at this post, appointed a golden pool and took a bullet to sell. And now what does he say to the citizens? Sit at home, no power. The Prime Minister at that time takes laughing photographs, drinking espressaki in a famous coffee in Athens. Okay, of course, it didn't take me to drink and toast as it happened in Ikaria, nor did they welcome him with bungalan and celebrations, but the merciless stays in the middle of the great difficulty. After nineteen months, then, the rule of Mr.Mitsotakis is now understood to all Greek women and all Greeks that what is happening in Greece is never the government's fault. They're always the most intense phenomena of all time. It's always the best possible. There's always nothing more to be done. The others would always make it worse. There are no mistakes, no shortcomings, no failures. Never anything. Some people left without electricity and heating. Success! It could be more. Only daily triumphs occur with government Mitsotakis. And since we're talking about triumphs, Mr. Stakoura, how's the V-type recovery going that we'd have in 2021? Do we catch that 5% growth we voted on sixty days ago in the budget? Aren't we going better? Let me say a few words about the bill. This bill categorizes, in itself, the text, the employees of the ADP to old people who receive the personal difference, and to young people who do not receive it. It consolidates a state of multiple-speed employees. No mention is made of the officials of the Ministry of Finance and its audit services. Officials with the same standard qualifications are paid completely unequally. Therefore, Halou's bourgeoisie opens up for atrocities in the wage treatment of ADP officials. The mere thought that this bill can be a 'pilot' for the rest of the public sector in a government with Prime Minister Mitsotakis and Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, with what this implies for the merits and objective of the procedures, raises legitimate concerns within the public service. Basically, with this bill, you give absolute authority to the commander for wage differentiations. We, as rapporteur, are in favour of a special fee. But we want clear rules and we want predetermined criteria. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u227	Thank you for the time too. We continue with Mr Theodore Karaoglu from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u228	I was under the impression that we are discussing the Finance Ministry's bill on the AIA payroll. It seems that I have made a mistake, because the previous colleague and colleagues from SYRIZA have referred to other things and to an accidental event such as that which has taken place in the last two days and has troubled Athens, namely the issue of the bad weather and the problems that have arisen, rather than the issue of the bill. In fact, we heard the previous one say by closing down: 'Let me say two words about the bill that we are discussing'. In any case, I understand very well that 'art education is working', but let us come to the point. Ladies and gentlemen, in politics there are parties that win the election and honor the electorate's confidence, based on the programme speech, the solutions they propose, the consistency of principles and positions that they show and, of course, the insistence on promoting the best for the country and society. There are, of course, those political formations which, as a birth of the economic crisis, are politicizing by investing in collective amnesia, camouflaging the lack of ideological and programmatic equipment by using a reason extremely divisive. In our case, the New Democracy, as a party of responsibility and the great vindicated national choices, demonstrates every day that it has a dominant aim to be useful to the whole, with a commitment to its physiognosis and orientation. He is doing the same today as a force for responsible reform, since the legislation of the Ministry of Finance on the changes to the Independent Public Revenue Authority lays the foundations for the cultivation and consolidation of a new culture in the Greek State, which will have as its main axes values and efficiency. These are two concepts which must form the beginning and the right of each favoured state, two words which are invoked by many, few people who really invest in them, and which, thanks to the government, are equally intensified by the quality of public administration, by linking the employee's face to the whole of society. We all understand that the relationship between dignity and efficiency is multidimensional. However, the Finance Ministry's bill for the first time appears at a benchmark, since we in practice prove that there are solutions, as long as we want them to be implemented, provided that we have a plan, programme, method and creativity. Obviously, ladies and gentlemen, no reform is carried out automatically by pressing a button. Many important individual actions are needed to replace balancing and levelling up by achieving objectives and plans. However, it must not escape our attention that the right to career is illuminated by the guarantees of dignity. The Treasury bill we are discussing tonight in plenary on the new ADP wage bill serves this principle. It is a product of intensive work, study and preparation by the relevant departments. It ensures that the staff member is paid on the basis of the gravity of his duties and responsibilities, but even on the basis of his efficiency. In short, I say that for the first time a special salary is created for officials from the Ministry of Finance, Taxation and Customs, which was a constant request from the respective branches. It is ensured that no one's earnings will be reduced since the existing wage is the minimum safety net. It solves the wage issue of young employees, opens the way for increases in the actual salary to the majority of employees, while the distortions of the single wage on the increase in wage scales and recognition of qualifications are also addressed. Equally important is the fact that the State takes over the cost of integrating the personal difference in wages, which will lead to significant increases in pension earnings, restoring a wage injustice towards the new employees of the ADP, giving a solution to the issue of the allowance for border areas, establishing a border benefit for selected services, increasing the hours of overtime paid, while consolidating the incentive to achieve objectives. I personally wish to dwell on the last issue because it is a structural element of the new era that we are visionary of rising to the Greek public. We are taking an important step towards the future by surpassing his hooks yesterday and breaking stereotypes of decades that had demonized the evaluation. In other words, we are moving towards a modern way of managing human resources where they will only have rational, objective and fair criteria. We spend the time learning, experience, thought, efficiency and creativity will be rewarded and useful career and stimulus supplies. We put an end to all kinds of quotas providing incentives for efficiency and providing professional awareness and commitment to the goal. No employee who is doing his job properly should be afraid of the annual evaluation. The evaluation is a prerequisite for merit, modernisation and extroversion. It is the foundation of equality and an important factor in progress not only of the individual but of the whole society, it consolidates confidence in the institutions, it ensures social cohesion and strengthens the sense of law. Ladies and gentlemen, two hundred years from national regenerativeism, the redefinition of values and the rebuilding of evaluation is necessary in our country. Its consolidation and faith in transparent procedures will be the most powerful basis for stable economic growth and moralization. In conclusion, I have to point out that the institutional intervention we are discussing has a positive reform mark, as indeed all the interventions of the Government of our Prime Minister Mr Mitsotakis. The New Democracy as a reformist party with management culture and democratic control of power helps Greece to make a qualitative step forward. We are the real party of progress and leadership. We are the party that goes beyond the dividing lines by promoting the need for national creation. We are the party that, in its founding declaration, spoke first about social sensitivity. We are the party of many, another genuine people's party that unites the Greeks and we are proud to come and continue the story of the centre-right party, which, for the first time in the 1950s, gave the right to vote and to stand as a candidate for election to women, elected the first woman MP in Greece, Helen Skoura, had the pleasure of seeing the first woman Minister Lina Tsaldari, who swore to the government of Constantine Karamanlis. This is the real advancement, to get to the Government of Mr Mitsotakis today, where, for the first time, we had an election of the first woman President of the Republic. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill of the Ministry of Finance modernises and upgrades the Greek State. It goes without saying that our prolongation supports it and votes for it, because it is for the benefit of Greek citizens. We're becoming the change that our country needs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. We continue with Mr Savva Anastasiades from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u230	(It doesn't sound because of a bad connection.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u231	Mr Colleague, there was a sound issue and we did not hear you clearly. We would ask you very much to send us your speech. Thank you very much. [[Mr Savvas Anastasiades' speech is recorded in the Minutes and reads as follows:]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 403a - 403d]] Mr. Charalambos Mamoulakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Do I sound normal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u233	I'm fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u234	Before entering the essence of today's debate, which is no longer the draft law on the wage bill of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, let me comment (It doesn't sound due to a bad connection) ...because if nothing else, really, we've lived the last twenty-four unprecedented things and images that I think they're far from what we've become used to in crisis management issues such as weather phenomena and more specifically...(It doesn't sound due to bad connection) I think Mr Mitsotakis' ultimate state really plunged deep into the snow. And I say this because it is not only the statements from government officials that have recently been made, as a few hours ago, by Mr Chrysochide, who have caused the public a sense of law, but it is also the management itself while we were aware of the phenomenon a very long time ago. So we lived something unprecedented as I said. What was that? The preliminary closure of the largest central artery in our country, which unites the northern and southern Greece, our national road. So it was about abandoning the batch before it even started... (It doesn't sound due to a bad connection) In fact, I should like to mention a personal experience. As a student abroad, I had experienced a similar phenomenon. He had shut down a national artery in France and yet... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)... incredible suffering of five to six hours, but they didn't abandon the battle. They tried and finally opened the artery. This has also happened in our country and in 2017 and 2008 and in 2005. So, I think this way, in fact, was a hand to the contractor, because we know clearly that the concessionaire is subject to specific sanctions on the basis of his contract in order to be able... (It doesn't sound because of a bad connection)...his institutional and structural obligation to keep the national road open for all Greek citizens, as the Greek Constitution explicitly defines. That didn't happen. It is obvious that the imperials of the concessionaire by the Government have been heard, yet another aspect, and another manifestation of the Government of Mr Mitsotakis in that particular relationship with specific elites of a state-owned nature. Let me go to the essence of the bill which is no longer operational and, of course, the issue of the days in question, which are the support of the AIA. Ladies and gentlemen, I think the public debt crisis that has disturbed the country over the last decade has been a crisis of the country's ability to borrow from international markets. The crisis and the memorials, however, were an indication of the inability of the state mechanism to collect what was required from those who had to be, that is, a crisis of the public's ability to collect according to the tax possibilities of each one of us and each of us. This has had dramatic budgetary consequences for the country, dramatic budgetary consequences. However, it has always been a wound to democracy in our country to the extent that citizens' sense of equality against the state has been affected. The golden years of bi-partisanism, we all know about cases and dossiers in which they went, about fines that were deleted by PASOK and New Democracy citizens' phone calls, and about forms of inter- and money laundering throughout the entire range of state-owned mechanism that has always been cultivated under the responsibility of the political leadership in question. Transparency in the tax administration and the creation of an institutional wall for the protection of civil servants serving the state's tax-driven mechanism from the political leadership concerned was the main SYRIZA's position during his government service. The establishment of the AIA as an Independent Authority may have been the result of negotiations with institutions at first instance, but today's party of Civilian Responsibility has served the purpose of strengthening the autonomy of tax-based mechanisms. I am saying this to point out that the correlation between the current draft law and the third financial adjustment programme has nothing to do with reality. Today's law implements a transformation plan for ADI which not only serves the above aims but will probably increase control of political leadership towards the control mechanisms by creating a privileged relationship with an individual elite of civil servants. I dare say that today's draft law should not be seen as a formal reorganisation of an individual service. On the contrary, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law must be seen as a pilot project for the implementation of a model of public organisation, a public with less democracy within it, a public which promotes competition with mutual understanding between public officials, a public with its employees manipulated with political leadership, paid according to the appetites of their own head and fearing the worst if they do their duty efficiently and conscientiously, as the vast majority of them already do. On this particular issue now, today's bill destroys the ADP, creates the scandalous inequalities between civil servants and the privileged elites of the well-estimated officials of ADP, gives outrageous powers of tsar, I would say, to the Governor of ADP and to his private office...(Not heard because of bad connection)... outside the democratic control of our Parliament over and outside, i.e., and every framework of independence enjoyed by the other independent authorities. The relevance of the evaluation to the remuneration of the employees of the AACC voted on by this bill will have disastrous consequences for the individual auditor's ability to judge and impose fines according to his conscience and know-how. And it will cause even greater damage to ADI's ability, as the explanatory memorandum of the law suggests to attract young, highly qualified educated employees. When young people and young people who will be interested in recruiting the ADP will know that their remuneration will forever be in crisis, you realize that this is very dissuasive. In order not to get tired of this House, in conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, you want to increase the remuneration of civil servants in order to improve their work. Let's talk about it. Would you like to give the auditors an extra reward to shield them from any cases of money laundering? With you. But today's bill doesn't do any of the above. First of all, the vote of a distinct wage based on the individual achievement and the evaluation for the ADP is another thread drawn by the New Democracy to unleash the sweater of the single wage. Today's draft law undermines the independence and effectiveness of the state's tax mechanisms. For these reasons, we intend to vote against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u235	Thank you. I would ask Mr Mamulakis, if he can hear us, to send us his speech because, unfortunately, there is a problem, it microphones and his speech cannot be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u236	I heard you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you. Mr Consolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate is very interesting as it is. In any case, this draft law by the Ministry of Finance on the new salary of the Independent Public Revenue Authority - even though it is a Memorandum of Understanding, Mr President - is the starting point, which we have seen in the positions of all our colleagues, to open up a great debate leading to the establishment of evaluation criteria linked to wage and rating development. The target for a state and a public sector of high standards, quality and efficient services, goes through attracting and highlighting high-level and skilled executives. Mr President, we have become accustomed and experienced many times to discussing the efficiency and effectiveness of the Greek society, which should be linked to the achievement of measurable objectives, objectives of the state, objectives of society. Most importantly, however, we realise that we all need to take action together - but above all, the executives and workers in the public sector - initiatives and actions to ensure that this is effective and that public services are friendly. I believe that the regulatory framework of the new payroll that will apply to workers at the Independent Public Revenue Authority can also be applied to other public services. Let us look at it, Mr President, as a unique example of implementation, so that other public structures can follow in this direction. We need to make it clear that the public is a basic lung not only of quality indicators of citizens' welfare but also of this kind which gives both the spirit and the tone of growth that we need at this time. That is why I believe, Mr President, that the worthy and competent civil servants of the public must be rewarded - there are many worthy and capable - who are not really motivated today to develop their initiatives and skills. Ladies and gentlemen, the confidence capital available to the government and to the Prime Minister personally has not only been reduced after eighteen months of governance and management of continuous crises but has been strengthened. And that is a small point in relation to the criticisms made today by colleagues from the Opposition, but above all by the Officerial Response. And I say this because fellow citizens see us, hear us, judge and evaluate us. The government has been constantly taking steps to support those who have been affected for about a year, and I am sure it will continue to do so. An undeniably positive and substantial support measure is the extension of the rental discharge for the month of March and the firms affected, as well as the extension of the 'REGION - WORK' programme for the month of March. The aim is not to lose jobs, to cover the State's difference in the income of the worker resulting from the reduction in working time, but also to support businesses in this way. A measure with a positive and social value is also the advance payment of the pension for outstanding pensions, which the Greek society has embraced and which is expected in any case directly, because it will also give an impetus to the budget of each and every one of them in the whole of the territory. In the same direction, the extension of the time-limit for payment of debts by employers’ insurance contributions, self-employed and freelance professionals until 31 December 2021. The Members of the New Democracy fully support this government policy, and I believe that many of the opposition are seeing the practice of this policy positively, because almost all of it Greek society has rewarded this policy, which we are seeing not only in polling but also daily in the neighborhoods where we can see our fellow citizens and where we are talking with them. The proposals we are putting forward are designed to form the raw material of policies that will support those who really need it. The big liberal party has learned to work like this. Both the Prime Minister and the government as a whole are aware of reality and priorities, which the Minister of Finance has also stressed today and is constantly stressing. In fact, the Minister, Mr Stavros, has spoken of the sectors which have been particularly affected and to the greatest extent by the consequences of the pandemic. It has been mentioned, as I am talking about now, tourism and focus. It is very important that the bill with an amendment from the Ministry of Labour was incorporated into the State Budget for the months of September, October, November and December of the insurance contributions of the 12-month tourist accommodation which in the period January - August 2020 had a reduction of at least 70% compared to the corresponding period of 2019. This is an important point, Mr President, because here in the area I live in in the Dodecanese, this is very intense and I think this is an important exercise of a applied policy that is breathtaking for the people of tourism. as well as the granting of an exceptional allowance for employees in tourism and focus and for the months of January and February, a measure concerning those who did not receive any allowance from September 2020 to January 2021. The previous period in cooperation with the Minister of Development, Mr. Tsakir, responsible for the ESDP and the Governor of the OAED, Mr. Protossalatis, looked for ways of triggering subsidised training and skills programmes for workers and unemployed in tourism who do not receive any allowances. And in close communication and cooperation I have with them I believe that this project will be completed, because these people are also worth receiving the allowance that for various reasons they have not received so far. All these people must have an income coverage at this difficult juncture. And I think that these are the proposals that I have put forward in connection with the support of businessmen for focusing, for focusing, relaunching and restoring the state. In conclusion, I should like to stress that these proposals are moving in the framework of a financial programme for focus businesses through the ESRB, and that a specific advance payment is made to the contributors of the focus in order to be used to relaunch their businesses when the suspension comes, the premium for insurance contributions as soon as the focus is opened and a period of time for workers, and finally the inclusion of tax obligations for businesses in tourism and catering. All this, of course, is focused and analysed by the government and the relevant ministers. And supporting those affected by the effects of the pandemic has no static features, they are dynamic attributes and I am sure that everything that the government needs, but also all of us in strengthening workers, managers, businessmen and the whole of the Greek society, will continue to do so with respect for their confidence. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too. Mr. Mulkiotis has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u240	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it goes without saying that for the long-term development of a country, among other things, it is a precondition for the democratic institutions and the government's absolute power to be restricted by independent institutions. The case of the AIA's Independent Administrative Authority is, however, unique. The changes that the government has adopted since the principle of governance in this body are not innocent at all and show that the independence of an institution is primarily a matter of the culture and maturity of the political system and of the secondary functional independence. Today the Commander of the ADP extends his powers without democratic accountability. We are witnessing the substantial transformation of the ADP into a feud of the individual commander of an uncontrollable and out-of-regulated service. In the light of social automation, the Mitsotakis Government, with four specific interventions for the first time in the public sector, institutionalises the linkage between wages and job contours beyond the formal qualifications by increasing the power and power that officials can exercise on employees. Secondly, it breaks up and completely denominates AIA from the rest of the Ministry of Finance. It creates a different wage regime even within the same sector. Thirdly, it connects jobs to an evaluation system established by a decision of the Commander of the ADP. And fourthly, it does not satisfy the right to wage-earning for young employees at the Ministry of Economic Affairs who do not receive the personal difference. With regard to new employees outside the ADP, they are sentenced to salaries of EUR 750 and EUR 800. Ladies and gentlemen, let me now turn to the late amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour last afternoon, since I would like to point out that it was well known from the press. The parliament, according to the practice of the state of staff, is finally learning it lately. Particularly negatively interesting is the provision such as limiting the possibility of recruitment for children of militants of the National Resistance, the colleague, Mr Kegeroglou, has already been mentioned. Every day that passes I wonder what is this government's relationship with good legislation? I think this relationship at best can be described as a promising engagement that never ended up in marriage. This is the government's practice. The new Minister for Labour has therefore tabled an amendment 'achtama' with various provisions which might have brought them far before we had the opportunity to discuss them in the committee responsible. Unfortunately, however, it now seems clear that the Mitsotakis Government is disliked by dialogue on critical issues. After devising the project manager's position on e - EKKA for outstanding pensions the government, as the knot arrived at the comb, as its institutions are pulling the ear, landed improperly in reality and now presents us with its so-called revolutionary proposal on outstanding pensions without giving a real solution to the main outstanding pensions. Ladies and gentlemen, especially the Couple, the Minister, Mr Hatzidakis, is bypassing the existing legislation proposed by Mr Brutsis in the summer of 2020, and I am referring to Article 115 of Law No4714/2020, which you, ladies and gentlemen, voted on and does not apply today where the temporary pension is 70% to 80% of the pensioner's pension, ranging from EUR 384 to EUR 960. Today, then, the Minister is arbitrarily indirectly demolishing her to a level of tip. However, silence on the non-application of Article 115. EKA cannot be identified with PPC and workers are not bureaucrats, as some demeaning have been expressed, but very conscientious employees who pay every opportunity by the minimum means available to them to be effective. Mr Hatzidakis must respect them and recognise the effective work they are doing in very difficult circumstances. No explanation has been given to the House, ladies and gentlemen, why has this provision of Rule 115 not been applied to temporary outstanding pensions? And I ask how the Prime Minister has adopted and accepted the non-implementation of this provision? Because in practice with the amendment, what is now going to happen is the temporary retirement procedure, as it is supposedly time-consuming without the responsibility of officials to be considered as unnecessary and never to be implemented and no communal trick will ever be able to cover the failure from then on. The invention of the 'against' award, which the Minister announced otherwise, is the cynical confession of the government for its complete failure to manage the flammable issue of outstanding pensions, which it was solely responsible for. Every day that the myth of reform, modernisation and progress of the government breaks down. And it collapses out of sight. The Minister is pleased that the pensioners who are waiting for three and four years will immediately give the sum, the 360 or the 384 euros, and indeed Mr Hatzidakis is so big that he will give them the same amount retrospectively the same monthly for the time they have been waiting for. In addition, it promises to speed up the process of awarding the main pension. In fact, after the first temporary national pension provided for in the current amendment, will we have, and if so, when will we have the temporary pension? In addition, how long will the final pension be issued? Ladies and gentlemen, an answer is requested. Madam and honourable Members of the Co-Population, is it not a good time to inform the pensioners without pensioners who ask you in your constituencies when will they receive their final pension? As we now point out, the government does not think of this regulation making it an alibi, so that temporary pensions are not given, and also so that definitive pensions can be delayed further. The saddest of all is that with the amendment introduced to the House you continue to deny your failure, to deny the reality of the six hundred and fifty thousand outstanding pensions created by your political security, added to the delusions of SYRIZA - ANEL. With patches and no specific timetable for the main pensions, all you do is buy time for internal and external consumption in order to cover your inability to regulate such an important issue, on which the survival of many citizens depends literally. I conclude, Mr President. Pensions must stop being a communication firework. We are sending the wrong signal to the insured and expectations are created, whose denial magnifies bitterness and injustice. We're pointing it out. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u241	Thank you. We continue with Mr Dionysios Stamenitis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u242	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I go to my comment and speech on today's bill, I would really like to congratulate all the members of civil protection, the police, the firefighting and the people of the TEDO who are giving a superhuman effort to end this suffering of the citizens. We are already on the right track, of the seventy thousand meters that had ceased its connection now is less than ten thousand. Obviously, I want to comment that it is at least hypocritical, if not populism, to criticise the government for its handling of snow in 2017, who had fifteen - twenty thousand cars locked in for twelve hours in the car. Let's come to the bill. The role of ADI, as has actually been thoroughly developed at the meetings of the Committee on Economic Affairs in the previous days, is crucial and important for the overall functioning of the State and the public administration. The control, monitoring of the progress of public revenue and their collection under existing legislation, the taking and implementation of the measures necessary for the effective functioning of services, the fight against smuggling, the parafiscal economy, tax fraud, the identification of the phenomena of the parafiscal economy, together with many other responsibilities, are the extremely important task to be done by the Independent Public Revenue Authority. Therefore, given that the main objective is for ADI to be able to meet its difficult and valuable tasks, taking into account its role in the development of the country, the Greek Government and the Ministry of Finance introduce a series of innovative arrangements for the proper and more effective functioning of the independent authority, which set, serve specific purposes, such as ensuring transparency, meritability, fair evaluation and equal opportunities, strengthening the commitment of the efficiency of officials and employees, rewarding responsibility, providing incentives to cover liability positions and proportional rewards, as well as modernising public administration. How does the Treasury attempt to achieve all the above objectives? Firstly, with the new payroll, on the basis of which the monthly earnings are not determined on the sole basis of past service and family status, they also play an important role in the nature of the job itself, as well as in its duties. Secondly, with the entry into the new salary of all permanent and escalating officials, officials with regard to private work law indefinitely and a certain period of time that they currently serve in the ADP. Thirdly, by introducing a regulation on monthly regular earnings, which will consist of basic salaries, allowances and benefits, special fees and the personal difference incorporated into the special fee. Fourthly, by improving the status of workers in the ADP through the effective response of the problems and distortions of the past. I should also like to point out two important points that have been highlighted these days. One is that the total remuneration will be pensionable and the second is that no employee will receive a lower pay than he receives today. Fifthly, substantial regulation aimed at the models adopted by all employers worldwide, that of awarding an annual target award, of course linked to the prerequisite for employee participation in the annual evaluation. The sixth point, in relation to the previous regulation, is the introduction of the system of promotional wage developments, based on the evaluation data and not only from the service time. Seventhly, the innovatory provision laying down special pay for officials, in addition to basic wages and allowances, is linked to the assessment of their jobs and to the ranking of such workers. Eighth, the ranking of civil servants on the new wages in basic salary scales on the basis of the level of training of officials and their pre-service to public and grade bodies, on the basis of jobs. In addition, a solution is being found to an issue that concerns the misappropriation of the salaries of young employees, who will now be rewarded with their duties, as will their former colleagues. Finally, I should like to stress that the current allowances are maintained and that issues relating to overtime are also laid down. Ladies and gentlemen, every bill brought by a government crystallises the positions it represents and serves on the subject. The Government of New Democracy in its current regulations shows that it remains faithful to what it believes in the rewarding relationship between pay and pay, the proper exploitation of human resources, the fair treatment of workers, and the need to provide incentives for continuous growth. Before closing my speech, Mr President, I would like to comment on the first article of the amendment tabled today, which concerns the payment of early retirement with the application for retirement, but also with retroactive effect to those who expect their pension to be issued. It is an extremely important arrangement aimed at cureing a major wound of the insurance system. The Minister stated that it was about a hundred thousand applications,...(not heard because of a bad connection) to the anticipation of the pension. It turns out that the government is determined to end with phenomena that have troubled Greek citizens for many years at the stage of retirement. I should also like to stress that the regulation of Article 4 of the amendment, which concerns measures to support workers and employers of the 12-month-old tourist accommodation, is a breath to the owners, in particular, of hotel establishments which have been seriously affected by the consequences of the pandemic. I have again stressed that in Pella hotel owners active in winter and health tourism need further support, and that is a measure that will ease the burdens that have been lifting up in recent times. I should also like to point out that, with the amendment, the Minister takes care of the property regime in three parts of the country. It is incomprehensible that the owners who own the property decades, from generations of entire, or property that has given them public property today, should question their property and citizens really be afflicted. Minister, I have informed you that six regions of Pella have property problems and I hope they will soon find their solutions. I am sure of that, as you have done so far. Thank you very much, Mr President, for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u243	Thank you. We are now continuing with the MP of SYRIZA Mr Ioannis Giolas. Mr. Gillola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u244	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the salary of AACC officials has accepted the catalytic and straightforward reaction of all the categories of civil servants involved. This is an immediate response from the representatives of the workers to the representatives of the New Democracy and the Government. And report the agencies. The Federation of Customs officials, which has already been abducted. The Federation of Officials of the Ministry of Finance, the Federation of Workers in the DU, the Ministry of Finance, the new workers from all financial services, ADEDH itself with a public complaint. This is the voice of the representatives of operators and you must cooperate, listen to them and be able to compose opinions, because they are indeed asking for it to be withdrawn. The reasoned refusal, therefore, does not propose collaborative requests or is not intended by opposition. It responds to a legislative initiative on which no substantial dialogue has taken place with them. The simple briefing made by the ADI commander does not replace a genuine and effective consultation, because it requires clarifications, additions and changes so that we finally reach a generally accepted legislative framework, which, as I said before, did not go ahead with the administration and the Ministry. Instead, the bill contains a number of provisions relating to the work relations and payroll of officials who, as I have said, find them radically and vertically opposite, since the Constitution is reversed, as well as basic principles of equality, proportionality and transparency law. Firstly, in particular, it is undeclaredly institutionalised, contrary to Article 43 of the Constitution, and even with a punishable character, to participate in the evaluation as a condition of determining remuneration and as a condition of having a position of responsibility. So the staff member who will not participate in the evaluation process, in the way you want to impose, is punished multiplely. Firstly, it will not collect the specific job remuneration, although it has provided services related to this post. Secondly, it will not be entitled to the normal progressive wage evolution. Thirdly, it will receive a considerably smaller personal difference, and fourthly, it will not be possible to judge for the proper position of responsibility, or it will also lose its position as chief. And all of this, in the absolute judgment of the commander of the ADP, to which, under Article 25 of the bill, over-responsibility has been conferred on the ‘one man’s authority’. Servants, commissions, everything is so thrown into the ballot of the unusable. Two. The commander, under Article 23, is the one alone who decides, as I have said, on all the cuts, wages, on advanced wage developments, on stopping from a position of responsibility, directly circumventing the Staff Code and Disciplinary Law, and by violating the rules that ensure transparency, reliability, equality and durability. Thirdly, other provisions such as the provision of special remuneration under Article 11 which determine the degree and ranking of jobs create inequality and create chaos within the same service to officials who have the same formal and substantive qualifications. Fourthly, Article 15 which provides for a slow achievement of objectives is likely to pose a major risk of selective tactics and - do not hide - this will give rise to divisions and competition between employees. What will be the measurable elements for achieving the objectives? Will the subject of the commissioned work and inspection be the same weight? Are these the same jobs as the other one? There are difficult and easy cases, yes or no? It is therefore expected to create direct or indirect pressures to achieve the targets for all peers. The result, in the end, is the creation of a climate of extreme competition that obeys the hardest singles and private - economic criteria, which are inconsistent with the spirit of public administration, which, as I said before, must be guided by the rules of equality, proportionality, justice and leniency. Without responding convincingly to the President of the Pan-Hellenic Association of Economic Inspectors, something typical, entirely dystopic for the upcoming, for the future. The price quoted will evolve into an individual salary. And I say it, the President said, that is, that, a poor account, where every employee will have their own objectives, his own contract, his own wage, leading the ADP branches to fragmentation, personalization and appropriate personal treatment. One last, but particularly crucial element of the bill is the challenge of enormous diversification in the payroll and the evolution of employees, particularly in terms of personal differences. This unacceptable discrimination regime is a clear circumvention and an improper violation of the principle of equality. It will cause an unfavourable and hostile climate between older workers and all the others, the Ministry of Finance, ASE, the PRS, and especially young people who are not subject to the personal dispute. It therefore categorizes workers in old and young, whether or not they receive personal differences, depriving them of it by the latter, while they receive it by their older colleagues, even though they produce the same work, in the same circumstances, with the same work and qualifications. His logic "divides and reigns" at a peak. However, the element that ejects unjust treatment and betrays the intentions of setting up a working middle age is, according to the complaints and repeated deeds and reports from the new scientists of the Ministry of Finance and ASE, that you are calling permanent employees' posts of EUR 734 per month for positions of the Ministry of Finance. It is the stalk and nail to the government, which supposedly wants to block Brain Drain, but indirectly extinguish young scientists with increased skills and skills, those who admire, otherwise, to direct themselves, as they say - there are reports of them, are seven hundred people - either in other public structures, through mobility either in the private sector or even abroad. You have caused and been responsible for fleeing about five hundred thousand young people abroad. If the well-paid jobs promised by your Prime Minister respond to the monthly salary of EUR 723 for employees of the Ministry of Finance, which, as a logical consequence, will lead the private sector to hunger or Balkan wages, you should know that the labour forces, united and determined, will claim and defend for what they deserve, against neoliberal loop and Armageddon, which you want to impose. Mr President, I need twenty more seconds. I would like to refer to the amendment from the Ministry of Labour. Mr President, in the way they want to give it, that is to say, over EUR 384, of course, by delaying what it means. Mirrors and beads on natives. While the retired person would take his temporary pension of 70% within two or three months, he eventually comes to get the minimum, and waits for two or three years now to get the rest. Whoever understands, you understand. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u245	Thank you, too. We continue with Mr. Ypsilant from New Democracy. Mr. Ypsilante, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u246	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, the bill we will be voting on today seeks to restore problems that have arisen in the wage system of the Independent Public Income Authority. A payroll outdated, with chronic distortions and injustices, without financial and professional motives, which seem to have been favouring the search for the minor effort of a relatively satisfactory, as was called by Nobel Herbert Simon, rather than optimistic efficiency. It created this reluctance to take responsibility, attracting new executives with quality knowledge and training for the operation of the state-critical tax and customs administration of our country. The new model we are called upon to adopt is nothing but a system of wage development and pay based on the description and evaluation of the job, pay which characterises them as more justice, after being the prerogative of knowledge, premiums the experience, skills and, above all, the degree of responsibility of each job. A single salary such as for the rest of the public shall be retained and a special remuneration shall be introduced which incorporates and replaces the personal difference and any post allowance. The total salary is pension. The absence of a lower remuneration shall be ensured and the necessary streamlining of the remuneration according to the gravity of the duties of each staff member. Thus, new employees receive a salary equivalent to their duties. Incentives shall be granted to border services. Incentives to achieve objectives shall be established in a specific framework and in a way of payment and with specific conditions of assessment and effectiveness. Thus, the provision for the possibility for ADA to recruit staff with a fixed-term private-law employment relationship and for a period of thirty-six months is intended to respond to the design and implementation of the projects under the European Union Recovery and Resilience Fund and to ensure the absorption of their funding for the years 2021 to 2023 on the basis of the asynchronous time limits existing. It is, therefore, a draft law modernising and improving the operation of ADI, which shows that the Mitsotakis Government is determined to overcome the nuisances and pitfalls of the past and to promote true efficiency in the modern Greek state, without any ideals and assumptions that at the end harm the citizen. It is also with great satisfaction that provisions are introduced by the Ministerial Amendment to the bill under consideration that improve the everyday life of our fellow citizens and other issues that have been in employment and others created because of the pandemic. In particular, members of the electronic National Social Security Agency who apply for old age, invalidity or death pension in accordance with Article 17 of Law No4670/2020 shall receive an advance on the pension entitled from the first day of the following month to the end of the month of the adoption of a temporary retirement pension decision or in the absence of it until the end of the month of the final pension decision. Secondly, there are measures to support workers and employers of 12-month-old tourist accommodation, which are important following the negative effects of the pandemic on the economic sector and especially on the tourism sector, but also exceptional compensation is granted to seasonal workers in the tourist and food sector, without the right to re-entry. Seasonal workers of the tourist industry and of the foodstuff subsidised under Article 4(2) in conjunction with Article 6(9) of Law 1545/1985 shall be recognised as beneficiaries of an exceptional allowance equal to the last monthly unemployment allowance received, provided that they satisfy the following conditions: (a) they have been employed in 2019 with full or partial employment, without any re-entry obligation in the year 2020; (b) they have received a regular unemployment subsidy lasting three months and five days or regular unemployment subsidy, the duration of which, in accordance with paragraph 9 of Article 6 of Law 1545/1985, has been extended by one month for the period 2019 to February 2020 and/or February 2020; (c) they have not received or received a regular unemployment grant for the period from September 2020 until February 2021, (d) that they are not beneficiaries of, or will not receive, the long-term unemployment allowance for the months January and February 2056/20. They shall be paid to all who are registered unemployed in OAD registers for the corresponding period and are free of any tax, fee, contribution or reservation. And I analysed these, because it is very important, especially for a large number of workers in the tourism sector and in my constituency, in my region, the Dodecanese. It therefore proves, in addition to matters relating to the proper functioning of the state, that the practical interest of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in all matters relating to our fellow citizens who have been seriously exposed to the consequences of Lockdown because of the pandemic. I would also like to refer to an amendment which was introduced by Mera25 which, of course, concerns the reduced rates of VAT on the islands. I would like to point out that, in his long speech, Varoufakis did not mention a moment to that and, on this basis, it is clear that, if anything, this requirement for our islands is hypocritical at this time. Indeed, Mr Varoufakis did well to avoid it because he was the one who gave this acquis communautaire to our islands to lenders when he was Minister of Finance of the Government of Mr Tsipras and Mr Kammenos. In conclusion, the draft law which we are debating clearly states that I am voting in favour of it, because it is in this part which expresses progress, in terms of the more efficient functioning of the public sector and of this sensitive sector in terms of the country's budgets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u247	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Maraveya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u248	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, without wanting to blame the importance of the new payroll, I believe that the importance of the draft law has been very thoroughly explained by all the previous ministers and fellow Members of the New Democracy. That is why I would like to focus my attention and my position today on Kostis Hatzidakis' amendment, which comes to address the problem of outstanding pensions and the malfunctioning of e-ECA, because it is a complex and socially sensitive issue precisely this issue of the insurance benefits of the largest fund in our country. There is no doubt that the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour seeks first of all to relieve the pensioners' candidates by giving them an amount against the pension they are entitled to. It is the advance payment of EUR 384 a month instead of the future pension, as well as the payment of accumulated retroactives to all beneficiaries since their application for their main retirement. We are talking about a process that is automated and does not require cards from the insured, it will simply be completed by completing an electronic form, which will contain some very basic elements of the insured, such as AMKA and IBAN. This advance will also be inconsistent and offset by the pensions that will be granted later, either with the temporary or the final pension decision. The participation of the Ministry of Digital Governance in the operation of the new implementation of the gov.gr is a guarantee of the success of this project. After all, we have many examples of successful interventions by Mr Pierracakis, which have led to the overcoming of chronic bureaucratic turbulence in various sectors of the public sector. We are therefore talking about a measure that is certainly effective and positive for the candidate pensioners, as they now receive about an amount of about the national pension. At the same time, the insured are dismantled from unnecessary bureaucratic procedures and e - EVKA himself wins a little victory in trying to become a truly electronic public body. However, this does not mean that we are finally over the problem and the major issue of outstanding pensions. Not at all. After all, the new political leadership of the Ministry of Labour has recognized it from the very beginning. I have also already been placed in the past that the problem of e-ECA is structural and begins with the Katorugalou Act, which created the predecessor of e-ECA in 2016, a huge bureaucratic structure that has come to have eight thousand employees and fourteen directorates-general today. So no one could say that what is missing from the e-FOD is the employees. However, we have, in our amendment, a provision on the prohibition of two more years' transfer or secondment of e-ECA officials to other bodies. And here one can ask: How does e-Have this huge human potential become exploited? Is it really necessary to prevent his staff from being mobilised? And if so, where does that idea come from? The truth is that this is a measure that the SYRIZA government first implemented in 2018, in view of the reorganisation of the new-popple then, which, however, never did. Thus, for two and a half years through successive extensions, this measure has been renewed, but has never been available to us for measurable results. On the contrary, we were called upon to vote last November and new emergency aid measures for e-ECA with staff to speed up the award of pensions. We voted in favour of all this because it was a question of a number of officials familiar with insurance, so that they could actually help. Therefore, the problem is not and perhaps it was never quantified, i.e. whether e-ECA has eight or ten thousand employees. The problem is purely qualitative, i.e. specialising the human resources of e - EVA in insurance. Because the administrative tasks are well, it is good to design, there will always be management positions in a public body, but it is not possible for its support mechanism to be larger than its operating track. In support of this, I am taking as an example the undeniably right initiative of the Ministry of Labour to build special steps in e-ECA to speed up the award of pensions. It was also right to provide substantial financial incentives for the participants to run the pending retirement cases, which is something that most of us in this Chamber last year voted on. The result of this initiative was finally to declare participation of about three and a half thousand e-ECA officials. The question, therefore, is very simple: why are the other four thousand employees not exploited? Is it related to the fact that most of them have supportive tasks and do not belong to the purely insurance sectors of e-ECA, such as benefits, income and so on.Huh? Because, if that is the case, it is confirmed that the problem of e-ECA is not the lack of employees, but the lack of appropriately trained staff, which can really and essentially help to award pensions. Minister, I am sure it is a common concern for everyone, regardless of parties and ideologies, how the e-ECA will achieve this task, how it will give pensions in time and how less the insured, employers and pensioners will be troubled. That is what is needed and nothing more. For example, I am not personally concerned about the preparation of the retirement dossiers by e-ECA officials, working group seconded by other bodies or even by private digitisation companies. Because it doesn't matter. We all know the word 'white cat, black cat, as long as it catches the mice'. We must, however, immediately do what is necessary to address the long-term problem of the organisation, which is the management of its human resources. And in this respect, my proposal is two important tools: internal mobility and retraining of employees who want to offer in the insurance sector. I am sure other colleagues also have to contribute to this debate with their own proposals to reorganise the country's largest insurance fund. That is why I, too, submit my personal proposal to the Minister. Immediately at a special meeting of the Committee on Social Affairs, this great debate on the future of the Agency can be launched in order to incorporate important interventions, such as the amendment being tabled, in a wider field of relocation and rebooting of the Agency. It is demanded not only by the members of the EFKA, but by the entire Greek society. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u249	We're continuing with Mr. Nikolaos Symblene.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I would like to make the following comments. Observation for the first time I see a government in a time outside of memoranda insisting on voting on a bill with all the institutions opposing it. Not one of the stakeholders has agreed to the meeting with the bodies, but only the commander of the AACC for good reasons that I will explain later. Observation 2. On the occasion of the bill, the issue of ADI again comes up with news. Here too, Mr Ministers and colleagues of the New Democracy, do not attempt political acrobatics. SYRIZA is not a "child", it is not a product of SYRIZA government. He was voted against in the government of SYRIZA, but is a transformation of the General Secretariat of Public Revenues, established under the Government of Samaras under Law 4093/2012. The ADP is a service which, in the name of the independent authority, operates outside and above government policy. Unless the government, as it does now, is in line with the policy guidelines dictated by the respective commander. So we met all those years after 2016 AIA in the third memorandum, where the only accountability given by the ADI is to the Greek Parliament, where the MPs felt defending against policies that we significantly disagreed, such as for example the seizures of microprocessors. It was therefore a product of a punishing policy of lenders in a country that wanted to take another course, in accordance with the will of its sovereign people. At this point I would also like to make a comment on the position of the leader of Mera25, Mr Varoufakis. Mr. Varoufakis said that he was opposed to the AIA and that he was one of the reasons why he resigned. However, he should know that, if we did not follow this policy, perhaps today or with certainty he could not be in Parliament too, because the country's course outside the euro - which would be the consequence of not agreeing to important things with the lenders - could not lead to the four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance, which eventually got the country out of the memoranda and left 37 billion in the funds, thanks to which the country has not been bankrupt today. Observation 3. The specific wage system established by the bill today, the AIA payroll, effectively abolishes the principles of the single wage of civil servants. And it is very likely that it will constitute the doorway for a complete overthrow of the single wage in all public services. It is no accident, in my opinion, and the last statements made by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Voridis, on the introduction of an individual premium on the payroll of all public services. Thus, this draft law establishes a multi-speed payroll within ADP on the basis of the logic of an increased wage associated with the job profiles, as well as the assessment that for the first time is linked to wages. At the same time, this payroll introduces quite different wages between ADP employees, as well as other officials from the Ministry of Finance who have the same qualifications and services. In fact, he makes a self-centered wage and creates the preconditions for huge personal dissatisfaction between employees. Observation 4, for the evaluation: Because there is a lot of talk about evaluation and a great deal of specula, I would like to remind you that a substantial assessment has been established with the SYRIZA Government following the evaluation introduced by the current Prime Minister and then the Minister for Administrative Reform, Mr Mitsotakis, who assessed not to assess the employees but to cut 15% off from service 15% of public officials. Observation fifth: The Director of the AACC is given absolute powers and wide powers, particularly as regards the determination of the level of special pay for work on the basis of the description and assessment of jobs, i.e. power to pay differentiations. Finally, I would like to say that the amendments which came after the fourth meeting of the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs are essentially a new draft law. It is a common practice of the New Democracy Government which legislates not one bill after another, but it legislates a bill above another and creates suffocating conditions for the preparation of these bills, but also for the possibility for Members to actually record their opinion and their opinion through a substantial study of the amendments which constitute separate bills. In any case, as far as the amendment from the Ministry of Labour, which introduces a temporary pension of EUR 364 or 384, is concerned, what is it doing? Where pensioners would receive 70% or 80%, as they had recently voted, they will now receive much less. It is essentially a hunger, as Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos analysed from our point of view. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u251	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Kamine from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u252	Mr President, unfortunately I have serious technical problems at times, because the electricity has not yet fully come to my home. I'm using my cell phone to have WI FI. That's what I think he's telling us too much. I had a month ago asked the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection and asked him what was going on with the North plan, which was the Ministry's plan on snow, which should specialise regions and municipalities. The result is: Only on 20 November, that is, winter had entered, sent the Ministry to regions and municipalities a circular that told them what they should do. On 18 December, he sent them the models that they should complete and made room for them by 15 January, to answer what they would do for snowfall. I doubt he's answered 10%. And it wasn't just the answers to the individual projects that they would have drawn up. They are, above all, how they would have prepared the services. But it's not the only issue that found the Ministry of Civil Protection unprepared. Last year with our civil protection law, the Ministry had presented as the great innovation the regional coordinators, appointed by the State Secretary with each regional director, and that would be the backbone for civil protection throughout the country. I would like to inform you that not all regional coordinators have yet been appointed. And I wonder, in any case, why did the municipalities fail to whip the trees, why did they collapse too many trees from the weight of the snow, why were the regions of the country, and therefore the Civil Protection, what did they do for this whole period? I come now to see that every year we are more or less repeated. I have first of all the announcement made in 2017 by New Democracy, which, if you read it, blamed SYRIZA about the same words that could blame her today. He was talking about a premise of bad weather, that the state mechanism has proved to be an impulse, that although the snowfall had been announced, the country's main artery was closed and the answer was one, namely incompetence. Unfortunately, we see this, the very same phenomenon continues. Last December, the Minister of Citizen Protection sculpted the commander of the 2nd Department for motorways, shut down the highway due to bad weather. What was the outcome then for the Ministry's responsibilities? What was the result of the concessionality of the motorway? Was a fine imposed, as foreseen by the law? Is there any new plan that is finally being implemented? Because from what we've understood, there's absolutely nothing. So I say to you that we are going to be calling very soon in the Committee on Civil Service, at least that is what we, as a Change Movement, are going to recommend that Mr Chrysochide come to explain to us what happened in particular with bad weather and why the national road has so suddenly shut down, and it was specified that we will have very strong snowfall. Finally, I would like to say a word for people who have forgotten about them, people who have been suffering for the first time these days, and who are suffering, especially because of the position they are in, and I fear that this will continue. I am referring to refugees and asylum seekers, who are forgotten. The people who live in tents, the people who live in a container, the tents buried in the snow in Schistos, Scaramaga, Eleonas, Malakasa without electricity and too often and without water. And there were between them and totally vulnerable groups, pregnant women and children. I read some of them last minute in city halls and in a container. I think we should think about them sometime too. Just one word about the bill that we are called upon to adopt today. We see that this independent authority enjoys a special status in which its employees will be assessed and the most competent and worthy of them will be paid financially. I wonder if this system of evaluation of civil servants with financial incentives to make better use of the government has been able to start it from an authority that has as its task the suppression of tax evasion and tax evasion? I don't want to underestimate the mission of the beginning, not at all. Should we not, however, start by rewarding the good employees from some normal, classic, traditional, which is the majority of services, which have daily dealings with the citizens, and rewarding them - the way we see them - those officials who every day return to the guise, make up the thousands of two gaps in public administration? Is that where the Government of New Democracy actually found itself to start the assessment and to provide for the clause? I conclude by saying that in this matter of the evaluation of civil servants, the last one that could give us lessons and show us the standards of how this should be done is the current Prime Minister, who, as Minister for Administrative Reform, has recommended a completely failed model of evaluation of civil servants, which, of course, has never been implemented, because it was absolutely inappropriate and that is why we have reached this current situation not to be able, in fact, to equitablely assess public officials so as to reward the best, to motivate those who do not perform better and to attract the most skilled to public administration. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr. Kamine. The connection with Mr. Kurubli has been restored. Please, Mr Kurubli, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I am obliged, before I begin my position on this bill, to convey to the Greek Parliament a complaint concerning the invasion of a vaccination protocol at the "Genders" Hospital yesterday. It is a fact that I really call on the government to investigate and impose the appropriate strict sanctions on those who, in fact, actually cause public feeling. Mr President, I will start my position from the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Labour because, in fact, it gives rise to the intelligence of citizens, especially pensioners, who have worked for forty years and have been waiting for some time for their pensions to be issued, to come the government a little while ago, with splendid announcements that it is making radical changes and solving the issue, and today an amendment is tabled to give them the minimum of their right, namely EUR 360, a lower amount, please, than the OSCE allowance. And I would point out again: a sum less than the OAED allowance, when most of the pensions are mid-term, that is, half of the pension is EUR 800, which should at least be paid against them. If it is possible for a man to live in today's conditions with this money. Mr President, the Government has brought a bill in which, in an instantly, one-off, at a plenary sitting, it introduces a system of co-responsibility to an extremely critical body, in which the phenomena of discrimination and inequalities between employees and an organisation which, of course, is quite right to give rise to increases but in a measurable way, which will actually give the opportunity, the criteria and the incentives, that is, to motivate all workers to deal with the subject in such a way as to give the public what I expect from this body. Not only does it work but it also brings a profound division with the officials of the Ministry of Finance, where officials with the same graduation - inspectors in case I say - of one agency and of the Ministry of Finance take different pay. But what we need to discuss, Mr President, and frankly discuss the whole political system, all the wings of this House, is the famous question of evaluation. We are all, as we all claim, in favour of evaluation. However, all the years of post-population, despite the good efforts made by many governments, from the result it turns out that we have not achieved what is expected. So we have not been able to build an evaluation mechanism, which would give a sense of trust, which would give a sense of social justice, which would ensure transparency and, above all, Mr President, would not allow procedures to be called into question. It is an obligation of the political system, at last, even now, to sit down, in peace, with the truth of finding a common place, not a place that everyone, every time they govern, deposites their own truth, but in a way that will be guaranteed by guarantees from both the Parliament and the Greek justice, a system that really gives the opportunity, as Socrates said, through Plato, through social mobility, a citizen will be able to develop. Or even better, I'll remind you what Thucydides said through Pericles' mouth, that to have real citizens you must have virtue prizes, but virtue prizes for the adorable, not for the adorable. We are a small society, a small state, and we will have to find the best way to assess not the measurable potential of some, but the non-measurable. There is the ability of a system to make the best use of the country's potential. This showed, with his attitude, a great personality, the late Palamas, though very old in relation to Rizzo, when he met, Mr. Rizzo, he stood up and said "I am getting up for the poet." Such citizens must be shaped so that this country can move forward. We also have to discuss this system at last with the ministries. Italy, Mr President, has formed a government with twenty-three ministers. We have and have - not only the current government - fifty and sixty ministers. This has an impact on the public administration, because it is beaming and fragmenting the potential of the public administration. Or even dare to discuss, Mr President, once we have decided to change the entire regional system in terms of elections, the reduction of Members from three hundred to two hundred.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u255	Please close, Mr. Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u256	I now come to another point, Mr President, that I feel the need to make a little reference. Mr President, the issue of auctions is coming back and it is terrorism, particularly those households who are proven to be not battered, are people who cannot pay. And I am not talking about the first residence of two hundred, four hundred or five hundred meters, but I am talking about residences of one hundred, one hundred and twenty, and thirty-thousand households, who have proved themselves - because today we can prove, Mr President, who are the batteries - to check that real people who have taken wages and pensions before the crisis, for which we are not responsible, but we are responsible as a political system, cannot today cope with these needs, so they are in danger of losing their home. Mr President, we are neither the Netherlands nor Belgium. We are a country that is threatened not only by the pandemic and the economic crisis, but the integrity of our country is threatened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u257	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u258	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. How are we going to ask a child of such a family to go to fight for altars and restaurants when we make it homeless? Mr President, I would like to close by saying - and let me mention it - that in 2016, as Minister of the Interior, I faced the threat of a fine for the country of 100 million from the European Union by accumulated breaches of Macedonian municipalities. We have succeeded at that time - and I say this to show how well there are in public administration when they are being properly exploited - the political leadership, taking advantage of executives, such as the then Director-General, Mrs Javi, to halt all this threat and thus to prove that we can support the presence and functioning of the rule of law and thus the country yesterday was notified by a European Union document, by a judicial decision, that it is relieved of this threat of 100 million. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u259	We continue with Mrs. Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA. Please, my colleague, be in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, Mr President. I have to refer to Mr Chryssohoid's political rhetoric, who dared Mr Hatzinikolau to say that we burned people in Matti today. Once again, Mr Chrysochoidis managed to divest in political vulnerability to hide his dangerous inability. His position shows his panic, his small political stature, his ultimate political perception, his lack of ethos, his lack of courage, his lack of empathy and, of course, his provocative enjoyment of his non-criticism by the central media. Let's remind him, however, that today's Secretary-General, Mr. Tsouvala, was head of the police force in Matti. It was him, that is, who had the ultimate responsibility for deciding to stop traffic in the central artery and bypass on narrow deadlock roads leading to the tragedy. And that is why we should remind him that he was retired the next few days from Alexis Tsipras, but was upgraded a year later by the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Let us remind him that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis rewarded and upgraded the senior officers who had then taken part in this tragedy, as shown by the official annual crises in the Firefighting both in 2020 and 2021. Let's remind him that his Prime Minister, Mr. Mitsotakis, ignored even the appeals of relatives who were victims of the tragedy, who asked him personally to take back the promotions. But he didn't. His interest in the tragedy in Matti and Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Chrysochoidis has been exhausted only in the political exploitation of the case. Finally, let us remind him that Mr Mitsotakis has recently made an assimilation on this issue, and he has distinguished operational responsibility and thrown the ball into justice from politics, that is, as he said, the communication management of the case, because that is what Mr Mitsotakis is concerned with and that is what he thinks is politics: communication and communication. Again for Mr Chrysochide, I would like to congratulate him on the original, but quite intelligent, as our President said at noon, on his idea of shutting down the national road before it even starts to snow. This has no precedent. He has not thought of any other government. All previous governments tried to keep roads open at any cost or not. Well, they were trying. And he only did it is to prevent the national road and, in fact, without the concessionaire having asked for it. And he also got him out of his difficult legal and contractual obligation to keep the national road open, or he would pay up to 1 million euros a fine. Not to say that he gave him the opportunity in an extreme scenario - but you never know - to demand compensation for for foregone gains because the highway was closed with a state order. Finally, I would like to congratulate all of you on the zeal you are showing today, while two hundred and fifty thousand households have left without power, without water and heating, while thousands of children, as Mr Kaminis said, are freezing in Kara Tepez and in other structures, even next to you, while Attica has paralyzed many regions in Greece, as well as bad weather and global times, to vote in Parliament today, two bills, which under no circumstances can be classified as an urgent one, but are only intended to give gifts to the media to continue to melt the Prime Minister and Government of New Democracy and to increase the pay of your own 'blue' children. And, of course, I am referring, first of all, to the bill from which we left at noon, the bill that should be called 'final propaganda' and with which you are giving millions to the Canadians, you have done wage-earners for some of your own workers at the ERT and, on the contrary, a few hundred other workers have pushed them north against unemployment and the exploitation of the contractors and, secondly, to the bill under discussion. Both are secretly brought, outside the public eye, with virtually closed parliament and the citizens locked in their homes. The draft law now under discussion is, in fact, a very important bill and this procedure is not appropriate. It is important because it concerns the working life of thousands of workers in the ADI and indirectly all the rest of the public. It took fourteen days just to consult, forty-eight hours for the processing and voting of this House, with a large number of serious and unrelated amendments. That's what you give to this bill. Of course, we have seen this many times in many bills. It's become a permanent custom for you. In this bill, therefore, this was unprecedented and paradoxical: all the institutions of the Ministry of Finance raised issues, all parties raised issues, even the Members of the New Democracy who raised questions. How can everyone disagree and your government does not even give an extension to the draft law debate to do, if anything, further consultation? We really don't understand why you insist that this bill come today and be voted on. In fact, the majority of those who disagreed did not simply have a simple disagreement. They disagreed with severe classifications and accusations and mainly disagreed with arguments. The bill presents important problems and its vote is expected to create more problems than it has to solve. First of all, everyone disagreed with the commander of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, whom you make absolutely ruler with superpowers and with little democratic accountability that he has the right to assess, but not to evaluate. Article 11, on the special pay and the level of jobs, is obviously the most problematic article in the bill. It provides, in addition to the basic salary and other allowances laid down for all civil servants, for a special remuneration to be paid according to the level of employment. However, a special remuneration is required for six stages: the establishment of a special grading system for the posts of the authority, the establishment of the system's grades, a description of the system's grades, the evaluation and classification of jobs, the classification of employees in jobs and their grades, and, finally, an evaluation of the staff member. Almost all of the above issues, you provide their broad responsibility to the Commander of ASE, without providing insurance for employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u261	Please, my colleague, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u262	I shall conclude in a minute, Mr President. The adoption of the upper system undoes the same core of wages as a dependent job, since it is now no longer predetermined and stable, but depends on factors that are not specified in advance, variable at any time, such as positional allowances, which are not given, but, in the form of bonuses, but constitute the wage. This creates a glorious field for opaque and clientele practices, and with certainty work peace will be disturbed in a particularly critical area, such as public revenue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u263	Mrs. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u264	A final comment on Article 24 for the recruitment of fixed-term staff, i.e. thirty-six months, for the projects of the Recovery Fund. We disagree. We believe that it is possible to recruit staff from the window by way of derogation from the existing legal framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u265	Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u266	Let me close, Mr. President. We've been waiting since morning. I conclude, therefore, by saying that the bill finds opaque and government authoritarianism, promotes job cannibalism within the services and leads workers to conceive against the institution of evaluation and worthyness that SYRIZA fought to restore.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u267	Madam Colleague, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u268	The voices of protest have already been intensified - and you must know that - and the social outcry against you will soon be deafening. Thank you. For the amendments you have brought, it is clear that the seven-minute period is not enough to put us in place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u269	Madam Colleague, please. As you know and understand, the process is specific. When the party leaders come in, as the Chief of Officer Responsibility -any leader - had to speak and speak with ease of time. So you didn't expect for any other reason. You waited for this process and the political leaders had to speak. Nothing else happened. The procedure has been carried out properly, as it had to be. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the lack of proposals leads SYRIZA's colleagues to the search for lifeboats, micro-party verbal shapes and efforts to disorientate them. Probably all of this is imposed by the need to have fun with the impression of the negative polls on SYRIZA. But citizens don't listen to them, they've turned their backs on them. I would like to mention this because a great deal has been said by Mr Chrysochide's previous colleague. With regard to the bill that comes today for the vote in Parliament, which concerns the new salary of the Independent Public Revenue Authority, it is a Memorandum and a prerequisite. The country has left behind the past's outdated divisive diplomatic "immemorial-antimony". The conflict with reality and the collapse of illusion and easy solutions was decisive for this development. The contents of the bill, however, have as a reference the future. The model of a new salary for a service with a dominant and decisive role in public revenues may also apply to other public sector services. The aim of the bill is clear, to link the wages and graduation rates of employees to the Independent Public Revenue Authority with the special weight of the position in which they serve, and to achieve the goals. No rights shall be erroneous or abolished. The single wage in force for all the public sector remains in force. However, this adds a special salary paid, as I have said, to the gravity of the responsibility and to the achievement of the objectives set, because every public service, as much as the Independent Public Revenue Authority, which plays a key and decisive role, must operate with strategic objectives and seek to achieve them. We therefore have a new salary, which is not only linked to the knowledge, qualifications and pre-service of the staff member, but on the basis of the gravity of his duties and posts and the efficiency index in terms of achieving the objectives. In particular, a special remuneration shall be established relating to the grade of the job and the gravity of the performance of the duties of each staff member. Thirteen job grades are defined. The specific remuneration of the job starts from EUR 100 at tier one and reaches EUR 2,200 at the highest level. Innovative elements are introduced for a public service, such as the introduction of an annual bonus linked to the target benchmark. The new wage bill of the Independent Public Revenue Authority includes permanent and peculiar civil servants or civil servants with employment for an indefinite period and posted officials and advisors and associates of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. From there on, I will make a small reference to the amendments tabled and aimed at supporting businesses and workers affected by the consequences of the pandemic. The government has been constantly taking measures to support our budgetary needs for eleven months, several times, but continuing to maintain the support and confidence of the markets. This draft includes important and substantial support measures, such as the extension of the 100% exemption for the affected enterprises and for March. The original arrangement that we had voted on provided for an exemption from the rent for the months of January and February. Secondly, the extension of the time limit for the payment of insurance contributions for firms and professionals affected until 31 December. The original regulation provided for an extension until 30 April. Thirdly, the extension of the 'CONTRIAL AND WORK' programme for the month, which will include workers with full-time employment on 31 January 2021. Fourthly, the extension of the suspension of contracts for workers recruited by 31 January 2021. The provisions on the suspension of contracts shall apply as long as the undertaking concerned has ceased to operate because of the pandemic or is part of sectors affected by it and in any event until 31 March 2021. Fifth, the coverage from the State budget of employers' insurance contributions to tourist accommodation for a period of 12 months from 1 September 2020 to 31 December 2020. The measure concerns the 12-monthly tourist accommodation, which in the period January to August 2020 had a turnover reduction compared to the corresponding period of 2019. Sixth, the provision of an exceptional aid for workers in tourism and the focus that did not receive an unemployment benefit from September 2020 to January 2001, provided that they remain unemployed at that time. And, seven-and-a-half years, granting a pension advance for those who apply for retirement, but also for outstanding retirement pensions. It is undoubtedly a positive measure that will have and will continue with the aim of ending the long-term expectation of the payment of pensions. At the same time, the procedures for the full payment of outstanding pensions are accelerated. It is time, Mr President, to end this unacceptable standby regime that comes from the past and is linked to bureaucratic claws and offends us all and, above all, it offends and hurts people who work a life and demand respect from the state. It is a top priority that Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself has set and is starting to act. These measures, but also the continuing government interventions for those who, in fact, need support and assistance, strengthen the climate of trust and social solidarity. With confidence in our relations with the citizens and the maintenance of social cohesion, we will start trying to restart the economy and return to normality. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u271	We're finishing up with Mr. Moraite. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u272	Thank you very much. We had a technical problem. Other colleagues have said so. I'll repeat it myself. As soon as this process can be over. It is quite difficult for all of us to be away from Parliament and from our offices or from our homes to be placed in a series of legislations, which are very serious about the future of Greek citizens. If I wanted to put a title on the last weekend that we spent, I would say: "The final state of Mr. Mitsotakis became dust and legends. He collapsed.’ And what is sadder than anything is the statements that follow the collapse. These are divisive statements by ministers and government officials who do not fit in periods such as this and are turning us into other times. I'm really sorry. As far as the bill we are discussing is concerned, I think it is the epitome of bad legislation. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that there has been a bill with twenty-six articles and seventy-four pages, and today we are discussing an important draft law on AIA and its future with forty-seven articles, and if I am not mistaken, two and twenty-nine pages and a number of amendments which have nothing to do with the bill. I asked for the floor, and I will try to be as brief as I can as the last speaker, to refer to the amendment tabled by Mr Aygeakis. He's used to us in night-to-night amendments. We are used to last-minute amendments. At a time when sport in our country has downloaded rolls, which is not working any more than the first category of football and basketball, where sports clubs are in a great dead end, coaches, trainers and a generation of athletes are in a great dead end, unfortunately the government and Mr. Augiaki what they care about is not how they will restart sport, how they will sit and find a plan on which they will step to see the next period. All they care about is how to manipulate, how to control, how to party the field of sports federations. I'm so sorry about that. Of course, his last amendment does not surprise us. He's used to us in something like that. This is the second, third time we have changed the dates of the elections. I want to remind you that we had a series of photographic devices for other people. We had the lifting of the knuckles for the chosen ones. We have strongly experienced the work of a serious tool, the register, on how it will be used by Mr Augias and the government in the forthcoming elections to the sports federations. Today we have reached the peak of having a shameful amendment for Parliament, for Greek sport and for all of us. I'm literally talking about all of us. In 'all of us' I put Members from all the wings. It's coming from Mr. Ausgeakis. In fact, what he does is a raw intervention in sport and the elections of sports federations. How is Mr. Augias doing with this amendment? It sets out a unique electronic platform for the election, when the federations had had an alternative and had predicted that they could, on the basis of the ILO platform, go ahead and make their elections where they would be in trouble and there would be too many electors. I would like to stress at this point that... (not heard because of bad connection) federations have a capacity of 200 fifty to six hundred unions. Six federations from a hundred to two hundred fifty and eighteen federations have less than a hundred unions. I do not understand, when the government itself before Christmas legislated on how and how electronic votes would take place in a series of organisations and unions, because Mr Augias comes today and says that the only system is "ZEUS" and takes responsibility for him and the Minister for Digital Governance. The fact is that in the explanatory statement - and I would like to mention it - it speaks of adequate guarantees, of electoral results, not of complete guarantees of the system and of the outcome of the votes. So you understand what's in the back. The worst of what this amendment contains is the authorisation of the Secretary of State for Sports and the Minister for Digital Governance to define in detail the conditions, the procedure and the conduct of the electronic vote, in the way they wish. I mean, that's something that's been going on for the first time. I sincerely want to ask who can guarantee the integrity of the elections when there are no candidates' representatives in the committee of inquiry. Because what we are voting on today is that there will be three lawyers on the responsible committee. Of course, Mr. Augias, with this, dismisses his own law. I come to the pretext deadline of twenty-five days. I think it is a clear target for how many specific federations the elections will be postponed. I could say a lot more. What is clear, however, is that Mr. Aiggeakis now with an arrogance, with a nepotism that surpasses everything before. It will be advisable to deal from now on with the relaunching of Greek sport, its problems and dead ends. I would remind you that it has been 15 years - not decades - difficult and cruel Greek sport. There can be no precedent for the party pursuits of the government today. What is being done with this amendment is a parliamentary coup. At the moment, the sports world cannot accept it. It's across the street. We'll see reactions in the next few days. I would like to close by saying that I cannot imagine that in 2021, the Minister of Government creates conditions for the election of violence and fraud in unions, associations and federations. I don't want to believe it honestly. I think that this amendment should not be voted on. It's a coup, as I told you before. It offends the country's sports movement. I have nothing more to add, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u273	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u274	It is literally in the latent article to implement the law on the grounds that we also have the amendments. All ministerial amendments are accepted. No parliamentary amendment can be accepted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u275	Mrs Konnakka has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u276	Thank you, Mr President. In the main body of the bill, we have been in detail, in particular on matters that have been introduced for the first time, namely the introduction of an individual payroll for the officials of the ADP, and indeed, on the basis of criteria which are essentially dependent on the subjective crisis of the heads and the commander. The most problematic aspect is, of course, the linking of the allowance for individual objectives, namely by having a portion of the workers tightening the dolphin to the people so that they can get productivity premiums. What we do not understand is why we heard majority MPs triumph because the injustice of the personal dispute suffered by newly recruited workers ceases. Not only does it stop, but it is essentially permanent and established. The Minister is now coming to reject the amendment that we have asked for all workers to be equated in this regard. I have put myself in my protology for the appalling amendment of the State Secretary for Sport. A voice on the government's side is characteristic. Apart from the Minister who came to support it, no one else dared to support this appalling amendment. It returns sport to black times that the same Undersecretary appointed administrations. It's an unacceptable intervention. We really don't know where else it's going. It is unheard, in fact, of the Minister's being able to exclude the choice of committees from the general meetings and by authorizing him to declare himself the absolute authority of the procedure, which will determine, to the end, the way in which they are to be held. It is characteristic that it has such a precursor to mark the deck that every three and a little bit brings us a new amendment that changes the procedures in sport. I would like to say a word about the amendment from the Ministry of Labour. Christos Katsotis was placed in detail on this. It is, however, a real smuggling to the thousands of retired people who are literally reluctant to wait for retirement. I can also hear the Members who defend it. You tell the retired people to get comfortable and happy with the tip of 360 euros and "live May to eat a loaf" about when they will even get this temporary pension that you legislated they will get. I'll close with the amendment of the Ministry of Justice. The Minister really has a bad coussoury to bring in last-minute amendments. In fact, she didn't even come to support her. We would like to ask why even this little legal instrument that has left it in the request for reparation is abolishing it, and indeed retroactively. Of course we will vote against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Scandalides from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u278	I have four brief remarks on the bill and two comments on the amendments, Minister. First of all, this evening we experienced the revelation of the drama. The Memorandum lives and reigns. The confrontation of the government - Tsakalotou - Varoufakis - I think it was revealing to all of us. An attempt to transfer responsibilities and intercategories in relation to the ADI format as an Independent Authority with the supervision of lenders. We have fought for many and kept them to the end, even by participating in the Samara government, for example, VAT on the islands and the non-liberalisation of redundancies. Our position is right. Other independent and unaffected administration, other controlled by creditors. The AIA was an institutional offender, a mistake, which along with the Supreme Court completed the relationships of dependence beyond budgetary constraints and control of the economy. Secondly, the ADI payroll is in the wrong direction. It abuses and undermines the concepts of democracy, incentives, transparency, evaluation. They are concepts that the public needs to function on fundamentally dubious terms in a modern era. It creates irrational injustices within it, new inequalities with two metres and two weights, mainly insecurity and indecisiveness. Thirdly, the commander of the AACC shall be denied the authority which decides on the work of the staff member who decides on the extent, wages and their positions of responsibility. No political parliamentary control. The legal improvements of the Ministry of Finance alleviate some internal conflicts in matters which do not concern the structure and operation of the wage and salary. They do not change the monarchic regime of the administration, it is of secondary importance. Fourthly, the Minister argues in our amendment on personal differences and payment to the new officials appointed or transferred after 11-10-2018, including. Not included. He's wrong. Our proposal is the only guarantee that we will not have two-speed employees, mainly high-quality staff with very low pay. A word, Mr President, on the amendments. With regard to the payment of temporary pensions, there was legislation by the government itself that you did not apply. Instead of giving a 70% to 80% of pensions, as you were claiming at that time, you are giving them a tip that retrospectively will give a, I think, Minister, electoral relief. I do not know if you are hiding a later will behind you when you are suddenly going to give some people some money that may be a good amount about the situation they are in today, but that does not solve any problem at all for the future. On the contrary, it will become a permanent regime. We know how these work. It's ash in the eyes. With regard to Mr Brutsi's insurance reform, I would like to say that here I think they are laughing. What reform of the insurance policy, starting with the three hundred thousand pensions, will be carried out in a New Democracy of three hundred and sixty thousand? There must be an insurance reform. As far as Mr Augias' amendment is concerned, we are really lifting our hands up. Every two months and another amendment and another postponement and another procedure, always with one aim: to control the government's elections by qualified majority. Apparently not. Leave those who can hold elections and extend the time for those who cannot make their own decision. What's all this? Will it be the computer in the Minister's office and will it decide the procedure or will the company decide what procedures will be followed? This has never been done in unions and in any other situation. You would say that when sport today spends its worst days in Greece, it literally sinks, the Minister responsible only deals with the elections of unions. And finally, I will talk about the special-purpose company, about the management of family property in Greece of foreigners carrying their tax homes in our country. I don't claim he can't be interested. He might have some interest. But until now Law 4646/2019, Law 4714/2020, Mr. Article 4758/2020. Make us an account. Bring us some evidence of accounts and budgets. What's there? What's the equivalent? Let's have a conversation about this. This amendment comes suddenly at night to resolve a matter that will not be resolved tomorrow morning. Why don't you bring a nice bill if you have the evidence and we could vote for it? But like that, how? Without any evidence? When three laws have been passed so far concerning this procedure, the transfer, that is, the tax home and therefore the property? I think that's obvious. The government could withdraw it. You don't have to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u279	Mr Alexiadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. I respect people who have principles. I respect Mr Stavoura and Mr Vesyropoulos for his overall political action, but also for the principle he has said, that he does not accept parliamentary amendments. I propose that the rest of us agree and say that we cannot consent to this process of constant amendments which play a part in the role of Parliament. We must understand that we have principles too and that if the amendment comes back out of the Committee on Economic Affairs again, we will leave and let you vote on it yourself. There's nothing different. I have no political argument to convince you. I would like to point out three points to what you said. When we criticised you that no body supported the bill, you said the tax office supported it. The Taxation IP is not an entity. It's a trade union party. As you have seen, the Customs Federation unanimously decides a strike. If it unanimously decides to strike, but it agrees with the bill, then I'm confused and I can't say anything else. But, in fact, I remind you that the president of the tax federation, the dear Peace Text is a member of the tax office and he came here and explained to us that he disagrees with the bill. Secondly, there is a complaint from the Customs Federation that the bill was written not by Greek civil servants. You heard the complaint in committee. I asked you in my speech to bring us the starting document from some address. Some address started and sent an email somewhere.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u281	I've answered your question. Same again?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u282	Bring this to us, to convince us that there is no such thing. It's a simple thing. You're giving us so much. For the amendment you have brought, congratulations. It helps small and medium-sized enterprises this for special-purpose companies. The contribution to small and medium-sized enterprises is really crucial. They'll all be excited by tomorrow. As far as public property arrangements are concerned, the former forest assets, those belonging to private property, you are quite right to solve the problems. You are right to solve problems that have been solved for over a century. But why only in these areas? Make a commitment today that in the next period a horizontal arrangement will come that will solve all the problems in exchange, in former forest properties, in all these issues that affect public and private...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u283	What have you been doing all these years?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u284	We ruled a few years compared to you who have been in power since 1945. Let's not open up these conversations at this hour, because we're gonna be too late. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u285	Mr. Passalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u286	After an in-depth debate prior to the provisions of the draft law on the salaries of employees of the ADI and the provisions of the Ministry of Labour, I would also like to point out some of the essential provisions of great importance. In particular, with this amendment, the Government aims to address two crucial issues, one to relieve thousands of insured eAFRDs who have applied for retirement, on the one hand, and, on the other, to show quick reflexes. It goes on to take exceptional measures to support and facilitate the labour market in order to address the consequences of the COVID pandemic. The abovementioned arrangements demonstrate once again the readiness of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis to respond to the difficult conditions imposed by the economic crisis, from the outset to the relief and rescue of our workers, businesses and weak fellow citizens, with strategic planning, restructuring, reforms and interventions that restructure society. Appropriate measures shall be taken to mark recovery and relaunch the economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u287	Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much to all my fellow Members, and to those who were in the Chamber and those who were out of the Chamber, for the very useful contributions and remarks. As I said during my position, we incorporated comments that we heard during the committee debate and I am pleased that a colleague, Mr Scandalidis, said that these are in the right direction, of course, with the observation that they are not enough and that they do not change the core that, in the opinion of the KIANL, should have been different. For the provision we have made for family offices, I want to tell you that everything wants a degree of maturation, and I myself have given some accountable evidence of how these provisions work from 2019 until today. I said in my place that I am at your disposal these data at regular intervals to update them and to present them to you. Now, with regard to irony, Mr Alexiadis, what you are doing is'slowly what is for small and medium-sized enterprises', you will allow me to tell you that in the same amendment there is a provision that these small and medium-sized enterprises will not pay rent in March. This is what we are doing for them, when you had no mention of the rent, nor of the "Make up I" or of the II or of any other person you had said. Therefore, not ironically for an amendment that the next article on what you say is precisely not to pay rents for these small businesses in the retail trade, catering and other places. ‘Why do you not bring a horizontal provision?’. Because there are some legal constraints that force us to go on - a case. Yeah, we'd like to be more mature cases, but you see we're coming to deal with them. We came in last time to face the Saronic and Laurent. You remember we had the audience and we had the mayors as well. You remember that the mayors said 'half of the proposal is, why don't you put it?' Why didn't you put it five years? You realise that this is much more complex, much more complex and wants attention, and I will repeat it, whenever we legislate on these issues - I will stress it - it needs security. That's why we're going on a case-by-case. It is a difficult exercise that we are trying to implement. In your report on whether anyone else wrote it, and only the fact that we made several legal comments and interventions substantial, as Mr Scandalides said - I will repeat this to be fair to him - who do not change the core of the bill but are in the right direction, prove that in contrast to you who have been on the outside for five years, the bills have been law-making. The last comment to you again, Mr Alexiadis. I waited throughout the meeting to see your own plan you would have submitted to the institutions, parties and Parliament for the salary, rating and evaluation of the ADP, as you committed from March 2017 until summer 2019. Mr. Chakalotos left, made no mention of it. You didn't make any mention. I therefore wonder what you promised for two years when you hadn't written a line. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u289	Please, let's hang up with the State Secretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the debate on the bill in the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy and today in plenary, we were able to analyse its target, but also the specific arrangements and provisions governing the new wage bill of the Independent Authority for Public Revenue. Society is now aware that the demonisation of procedures such as the way in which evaluation is carried out cannot continue. High performance, achieving targets, grading and wage developments must be linked to the assessment, which is the structural and innovative element of the new wage bill of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. If we want to have a public sector, a state of high demand and expectations, the graduation and wage development must be linked to unequivocal ongoing evaluation procedures. The bill, which is a Memorandum of Understanding from the previous government, links the wage bill of the Independent Public Revenue Authority to the needs of the new era. The single wage, as applied throughout the public sector, which, as I said, does not change and does not change. The new element is that new factors and criteria, such as the specific weight of the level of responsibility and duties of each employee and the effectiveness index, are involved in the definition of specific salary rates in relation to the objectives set. A special salary is established to offset the existing personal difference and any liability allowance received today by the officials of the Independent Public Revenue Authority. A special salary shall be paid on the basis of the job profile and shall be linked to the scope of responsibility and duties of each employee at his or her place of employment. The linking part of the remuneration to the job profile is the basic principle of this bill and the new human resources management system. I repeat, in order for everyone to understand that as a principle it is not first introduced with this bill here. It is already provided for in Article 17 of Law No.4354/2015, which states explicitly: ‘In the staff covered by the provisions of the present...’, i.e. officials throughout the State, ‘... a remuneration linked to the description and evaluation of the job may be granted. A detailed description, classification and evaluation of each operator’s jobs is necessary for the award of this remuneration.’ The second paragraph of that Article provides: ‘The amount of the remuneration referred to in the preceding paragraph shall be offset by the personal difference’. Therefore, it is now clear that the basic principles of this bill have already been laid down by means of a previous law on the whole of the State. The new data on the wages that have a clear and clear reform framework are the following. Firstly, the linking of the remuneration of officials not only to the level of study, to the service and to the family situation, but also on the basis of the scope of responsibility and the duties of each official in his or her place of work. Secondly, the inclusion of all earnings in pensioning. On a practical level, this means that the incorporation of personal differences in wages will also be linked to a significant increase in the amount that the current worker will receive as a pension. Thirdly, there is no longer the mechanism of the personal dispute, which led to the remuneration of officials in stagnation, since wage growths were only nominal and did not constitute a substantial increase in wages. Fourth. Young employees who do not receive the personal difference will be paid a salary equivalent to their duties as will their former colleagues. Fifthly, the possibility of increasing the allowance to serve staff in remote and border areas that can reach up to EUR 500 per month. Sixthly, maintaining the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work, when the conditions are met, but also family pay. Seven, the payroll composition. They will consist of the basic salary, allowances and special remuneration for the job provided for by the scope of responsibility and duties. Eighthly, the introduction of a special job pay based on the scope of the responsibility of each employee, who is inextricably linked to the evaluation. Thirteen degrees, thirteen job grades And, ninth, establishing an annual bonus when the tasks assigned are met, which is a reward for the staff for their contribution to achieving the objectives of the principle. This regulatory framework for the grading and wage developments is based on the assessment. The evaluation criteria are knowledge, experience, creativity, critical thinking and decision-making, efficiency and supervision. All this in full connection with the scope of responsibility and the duties of each staff member. It also makes it clear that evaluation and participation in the relevant procedures are a criterion for selecting heads. I would point out, however, once again that there is no reduction in wages in relation to the previous wage system. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to refer to Amendment No 755 and to Amendment No 115, tabled by the Ministry of Finance and the arrangements it contains. The first article refers to the incentives provided for companies with a special purpose for family property management and is part of the constant effort we are making as a government to provide tax incentives for attracting natural persons to Greece with tax residence abroad. There were three legislative interventions in this respect: By Law 4646/2019, the institution of the resident non-resident (non dom) was established for the attraction of tax residents who make significant investments in Greece using the alternative tax regime of their income, foreign. Under Law 4714/2020, pensioners with a tax home were encouraged to transfer their tax residence to Greece and to subject them to an alternative tax on foreign income at a tax rate of 7% for a period of 15 years and with their exemption from the special solidarity levy. And with Law 4758/2020, an income tax exemption was introduced and the special solidarity levy for 50% of the income earned by employees and individual business activities acquired in our country for those who carry their tax residence to Greece. The aim is not only to increase public revenues but also to create incentives for repatriation to all Greeks, especially the Greeks of the new generation who left the country during the crisis. The regulation of Article 1 of the amendment establishes incentives for setting up companies with special purpose for the management of family property, so-called 'family offices'. These companies manage assets by providing complex services to interested parties. To this end, they are intended to operate as specific investment schemes for the management of capital of particular taxpayers in the context of their needs. It is noted that these companies do not seek commercialisation and profit. We want to attract such companies to Greece and one of the incentives laid down is the special way to determine their taxable income. We are creating a transparent and clear framework in which the purpose, type of services provided and their conditions of operation are clearly defined. The benefit is obvious. It is strengthening the economy and employment. Article 2 solves a chronic problem regarding the property status of the properties which were expropriated in favour of the Municipality of Serres for the restoration of firefighting residents. Article 3 gives a solution to the property status of immovable property situated within the administrative limits of the Panteleimon Community of the Municipality of Dios - Olympus, and its concession has so far not been completed. Article 4 is also in the same direction. It solves problems of property property status in the positions of Rachi and Mahala in the settlement of Malesina, which was given for the restoration of earthquakes. Article 5 amends the institutional framework for the provision of value-added services and aims at more efficient functioning and respecting the Register of Credited Estimates of the Ministry of Finance. The subject matter of assessments and their obligations shall be identified, and the disciplinary board of accredited assessors shall be involved in the event of breach of the obligations. It is also planned to register property estimates in the database, ‘Digital Services of Public Property and National Heritage’. Article 6 extends until 30 March the validity of the exceptional measures to ensure the provision of cleaning, disinfection and maintenance services of buildings within the competence of the Ministry of Finance and the AIA. With Article 7, the Government takes another measure to support the real economy. I am referring to the full exemption from the rental payment for the month of March for enterprises that remain closed with a government order. The measure includes undertakings active in the retail trade, even those operating with electronic or telephone delivery services at home, consuming businesses that operate even by distribution of products in a package and supplying products in a package from the shop, cultural and sport enterprises, gyms, tourist businesses such as hotels, accommodation and tourist agencies, transport services, hairdressing and aesthetic centres. As I have said, we are constantly updating, evaluating, reviewing the conditions and we will continue to support those who really need it. The last article of the amendment is linked to the Government's constant effort to deal with smuggling of tobacco products. By this arrangement, the coordinating operational centre to deal with smuggling in products subject to excise duty and excise duty referred to in Article 6 of Law 4410/2016 will have full competence to exchange information under the Protocol on the Elimination of Illicit Trade in Smoke Products. With regard to Amendment No 761, a special 118, was tabled so that legal ambiguities are not created because the new bankruptcy code, which is in place on 1 March 2021, has already been passed. It is therefore necessary to remove doubts as to the applicable provision in such a way as to ensure systematic consistency between bankruptcy and civil procedural law. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Mr. Mitsotakis manages the limit value created by the pandemic. He's on his way to vaccination. It is confronting the consequences of the economy. It supports those who have been hurt. It forms the conditions for a dynamic relaunch of the economy after the restrictions have been lifted. This is done with the support and trust of a large majority of citizens in the person of the Prime Minister. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u291	The debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is closed: 'Missionary and human resources issues of the Independent Public Revenue Authority'. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of twenty-five articles, of four amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u292	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u293	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u294	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Miscellaneous and human resources issues of the Independent Public Revenue Authority and other urgent provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u295	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u296	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-17-S1-commons.u297	With the consent of the House at 23.43 p.m. the sitting is closed for Friday, February 19, 2021, at 9.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
