ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: 'Restrictions to be included in the special electoral lists of foreign voters'. We start where we stopped yesterday. This is why my colleague from New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Melas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are debating the amendment of the provisions of Law 4648/2019. It is a law which enacts the possibility of Greeks being involved abroad in electoral procedures from their place of residence, but with limitations. He will therefore wonder what changed since December 2019, and no elections have been held and we are coming today to amend this law. Is it a communication trick of the government, as the Opposition accuses us? Of course it isn't! It's a matter of substance. The answer to this question was given by the representatives of our relatives who took part in the meeting of the committee responsible. I would mention, in particular, the President of the Hellenic Community of Melbourne and Victorias, Mr Vassilis Papastergiadis, who said that the law in the way it is today excludes the majority of the sources from voting, the President of the Federation of Greek Communities of Germany, Mr Kostas Dimitriou, who said that there has been a timeless bitterness in the Greekism of the extermination of the Greeks about the election right, the President of the Network of Greek Local Authorities of Europe, Mrs Ioanna Zacharakis, who said that the law, as it was voted on, excludes a large proportion of Hellenism from the right to vote and we all want the best of them. It is therefore clear from the homosexual statements that the current legal framework includes very strict restrictions. This therefore results in the exclusion of a large part of the democratic Hellenism from its participation in electoral processes. This law was a product of consultation and necessary compromises between the parties, which is why it received the number of eighty-eight votes. Our prolongation, the New Democracy, is, over time, in favour of equal participation by Greeks abroad in elections. That is why we have a firm and firm position. The Communist Party of Greece - although we disagree - also has a firm position. The question, therefore, is what SYRIZA's position on this issue is. Is the proposal for a law that she tabled in September 2019? Are the statements made by Mrs Jack to the "NATIONAL KYRYKA" in April 2021, where she said the restrictions were unfair, degrading, that she has no words to describe them and when SYRIZA comes back to power she will abolish them? Or is it the proposal you have put forward with the amendment that you tabled for the participation of Greeks abroad in the elections without restrictions, the election of four Member States from a single list of four geographical units, but not counting on the final result, rather than on the election of the four Members? As you can see, this proposal creates two-speed votes and is contrary to the principle of equal voting. So what is your position, then? Will Greeks be involved in electoral procedures without restrictions, with two speed voting procedures? Is it or is it not the restrictions that are ultimately unfair and disgraceful? And if they're unfair and disgraceful, why aren't you positive in the bill the Minister brings? So you must answer these questions both to the Greek Parliament and to the Greek people. Ladies and gentlemen, the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior abolishes the restrictions for the maximum participation of Greeks abroad in national elections. Greece is not confined to its present geographical borders. There is everywhere around the world, where it advances, creates and develops Hellenism. This bill relates to all four hundred thousand young people who have left the crisis years, seeking a better future. They are the skilled youths of the generation of Brain Drain who should not be cut off from our country. They are those who keep the Greek flag high every day in the workplace, in business and in foreign universities. To consider the value of maintaining these strong links with all these Greeks who left the years of the crisis from Greece - with all these young people - I will mention only one element: 95% of those who left the years of the crisis are holders of a university degree, hold a postgraduate degree or have a PhD qualification. So, as we all understand, we need to keep these ties, because if they are kept strong, our country will have better progress. This is why we must keep their interest alive and have actively participated in the development of our country. After all, our aim is to shape those conditions so that the hundreds of thousands of young people who have left will at some point have the option of returning home. Ladies and gentlemen, one of our obligations, as members of the Greek Parliament, is to unite the Greeks within and outside the borders and the possibility for Greeks who live abroad to participate without restrictions in electoral procedures serves precisely that purpose. It is clear that this issue is a field of controversy and political conflicts, which stem mainly from our ideologies. However, ladies and gentlemen, there is also something more important than the ideology that each one of us has: it is home and nation. So today we have a golden opportunity to leave the unity of our nation as a heritage. The whole family calls on us to vote on this bill. So let each of us choose this critical moment in this critical bill for the homeland and nation on which side of history wants to classify himself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u3	And we, Mr. Mela, for keeping time. My colleague from SYRIZA, Mr. Andreas Michaelides, has the floor. Next, Mr. Akyuppis, then Mr. George Fragidis, Mr. Maravegias and Mr. Triantafylides. Mr. Michaelides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is sadly peculiar that the debate on the bill which we are discussing today in the plenary of this House, because the government first brings a bill to work and vote, and is aware in advance of the positions of the parties and the constitutional requirements for two hundred votes, that it will not be voted on. We would talk about a real comedy if the issue of the bill and its political protests were not so serious. The second reason for making this draft law unprecedented is that it is basically coming to abolish a law that was voted in favour of by two hundred and eighty-eight Members. This is an extremely rare case of such broad consensus, which was celebrated by the then Minister of the Interior and the Prime Minister himself. In any case, N.4648 was the result of a compromise of party positions from all over the political spectrum, which solved a long-lasting negligence of the Greek state against Greek-populated Greeks. So why does the government come only a year and a half later to cancel this positive step with all the objections that one can have and torpedo this minimum party agreement? Was the law practically tested and failed? No one claims that. The problems encountered in listing, for example, are due solely to government oligopoly. Is there any serious political event, any critical change in the data that is causing the annulment of Law4648? No one even invoked that. As a result, someone is forced to conclude that New Democracy fails the 2019 cross-party agreement exclusively for micro-party purposes, to close the eye at the oligorithm domestic conservative election audiences now that things are difficult for her, but also to show the Greeks of the diaspora that she is allegedly resenting them genuinely. Who? The party, together with the PASOK - KINAL while ruling forty years in the country and having had infinite opportunities to legislate on facilitating the exercise of the electoral right for the expatriates, has never done anything. SYRIZA had to come to the government to set up a legislative committee for the vote on the falsifications and launch the necessary changes to the Constitution. It is therefore necessary for the New Democracy to play the defender of the right of the expatriates. It is indeed regrettable that KINAL should be attached to this issue on the right-wing chariot. A few words about the contents of the bill and SYRIZA's long-term attitude. In short, the bill proposes abolishing the conditions laid down in Article 2(2) of Law 4648 in order for someone to register on the electoral lists. Our proposal to which we did not insist that the 2019 compromise should come about was the establishment of separate electoral districts abroad, where the relatives not only would have the right to vote without conditions, but also the right to vote. The perfectly reasonable restriction we have put on the non-measurement of the vote on the large majority of the seats. On the substance, both the criteria included in the 2019 Act, which - I say again - accepted fully then the New Democracy and our own proposals are variations of a reasonable weight between the real exercise of the right to elect for all Greek citizens and the need to respect the will of our relatives in a prevailing voter who suffer whole and all the consequences of the election result. This is a weighting in the legal order of many European and other states. But the government, ladies and gentlemen, does not think it will deceive the relatives of all of this. I can inform them - and let this be allowed, because of origin, to have an image - that the relatives have a memory and a judgment. And they know that you are that party, which, with its policies for many years now, has banished them, turning them into cheap labour hands in the countries of the West. In addition, ladies and gentlemen, our relatives have a crisis to see how you are trying to pete your ears with the legislative proposal you are tabling. But, ladies and gentlemen, in these manners, the government has once again demonstrated that it is deeply sleepy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u5	Mr Dionissou, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is once again clear that the government, with a determination and a sense of responsibility towards the Greek people, is moving forward and doing all its election commitments. With Law 4648/2019, as you know, the election process has been regulated by voters who are registered on the electoral lists of the territory, but on the election day they are abroad. However, with the procedure provided for by this law, in order to have the majority required by the Constitution, but also in order to enable these voters to exercise their right to vote abroad, there were additional conditions and obligations to submit documents, which objectively makes their participation in these elections very difficult, thereby depriving the majority of these voters - who are already on the electoral lists - of the possibility of exercising this maximum democratic right. To facilitate the exercise of the right to elect the Greeks and Greeks is a matter of top priority for the government, not unfairly, since this issue - particularly today - is of paramount importance. Besides, the foundation and safeguarding of the right to vote of Greeks abroad is directly related to both the quality of our democratic culture and to ensuring its integrity. However, Law 4648/2019 was a first important step for us rather than the end of the route, one which we have to complete. After all, our aim and ambition has always been to facilitate participation in the electoral process, to involve all Greeks abroad, without restrictions, without additional criteria, without bureaucratic impurities, which ultimately lead to distortions and end up creating conditions that favour the most prosperous and unfair those who cannot easily pay the cost of a long journey to exercise their electoral right on the ground. The conditions are now mature, so that we can finally move on to what this government has promised us, what the representatives of all the Greeks abroad have asked us to do, to what hundreds of thousands of Greeks are calling for with their signed support. It is important to stress that the right of Greeks abroad to participate in the electoral process was guaranteed both in the 1975 Constitution and in the 2001 constitution. It is, however, an empty letter to date, since it has not been implemented by our political system, an important omission which led to a lack of convergence of views on the individual arrangements for its implementation. I would like to stress here that the New Democracy has repeatedly tabled proposals for laws and bills in the past, seeking the basis for this right of the Greeks abroad. However, mainly because of the negative attitude of counterpopulation, it was not possible to extract the necessary majorities. Ladies and gentlemen, the fulfilment of the constitutional requirement is an institutional and technically mature demand and is an obligation for our state to meet an important category of Greek citizens, which has even increased sharply in recent years because of the economic crisis. It is also known that the years of the crisis cost us much, but above all they cost us the most productive part of Greek society. Young people with special education and important career prospects took their way abroad, because their country did not provide incentives to stay here and set up their lives and careers. For these people, it makes sense to acquire, without unnecessary limitations and bureaucratic obstacles, a reason for their country's political life. This is because most of them have very close ties with Greece, since most of them did not choose but were forced to leave and therefore recently left and in the hope that they would come back. At the same time as ensuring their participation in the electoral process, even the most determined to remain abroad, a strong incentive to maintain a relationship with a country asking their opinion, counts them on its potential and ultimately wants them back. The list of arguments which constitute a firm basis for the initiative taken by the government is indeed a long one. What we are saying is that the attitude we choose to maintain is clear and fully understood by the Greek society. What remains to be clarified is the position of Officer Opposition. You know, graphics has always been there, in Anti-Population, that characterized you as far as your positions are concerned. Controversy about confrontation is your constant tactics for a number of issues. However, at the moment you are completely exposed to your statements by your officials, which directly, clearly and repeatedly stated that the time has come to get rid of any condition or prerequisite for the participation of Greeks abroad in the electoral process, and they described the conditions as unacceptable and unheard of. So the question is one. Will SYRIZA stand up to the circumstances, supporting a legislative initiative, which expresses all Greek citizens within and outside the borders, or will turn their backs, insisting on a deadlock of a micropolitical game? You did the same in 2019. You were forced to vote so you wouldn't be alone. You were dragged by the JRC. You do not want Greeks to vote abroad at all, nor with restrictions or without restrictions. You don't want them at all and you have to explain that. We understand your problem, but you probably need to find a better excuse, because all you say is jokes. What we have to hold back is the substance of these interventions, which is not just the simplification and liberalisation of the right of vote that Greeks have abroad. It is our duty to support the bill brought by the Government of New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis. In addition, we are faced with a historic opportunity to take a major national step forward. However, you can be sure that today will be a historic day, anyway, in any case, at the end of this meeting. The question is whether it will be a historic day because we have all made our debt to the remote Greeks, the debt to democracy. However, everything will be recorded in the minutes of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u7	It is now our colleague from the Movement of Change, Mr George Francis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we are debating, for the second time in Parliament, the right to vote on Greeks abroad. It was preceded by the adoption of the Law on the Voting of Ellinism from two-thirds of the House in autumn 2019, a law below the circumstances and its era which, due to the lack of political courage and party purposes, contains provisions that prevent Greeks from exercising freely and equally with other Greeks the democratic and fundamental right to vote. Of course, we are talking about citizens who are registered in Greek electoral rolls and polls. How else could the conditions laid down by the Opposition be described, if not 'cuts'? First, they must have stayed for two years within the Greek territory during the last thirty-five years from the date of submission of the application for registration. Secondly, they should have submitted a tax declaration in the current or previous tax year. Thirdly, we must not count against the national election results. Beyond their arbitrary nature, these restrictions also pose issues of equality between voters. In fact, this is a product of cross-party compromise, so that the 2001 Act on the Vote of the Failed Greeks does not lose sight of the opportunity to activate the 2001 Act on the Vote of the Greeks. It is clear and politically fair that no law can and should not deprive Greek residents of the right to vote and to participate in the formation of the political things of their country. Nor, however, can it limit this right in any way, regardless of whether they are Greeks living abroad temporarily or permanently. The Change Movement was the only component that expressed to 100% the demands of the impoverished and our proposals were universal acceptance by the institutions and communities that represent them. At the first moment, we clearly voted in favour of the vote of the Greeks abroad, which, moreover, was legislated under the PASOK government during the 2001 Review of the Constitution. This is to the knowledge of the SYRIZA colleague who spoke earlier. Since then, we have proposed the epitome vote as a way of participating in the electoral process, which unfortunately killed the obsessive strangles and micro-party purposes of SYRIZA and the JRC. Ladies and gentlemen, our positions are well known and registered: the right to vote for all Greek foreign residents who are registered in the electoral registers and in the polls. In order to participate in the elections from their place of residence, to update their registration by means of a statement to local consulates and embassies of the Hellenic Republic. Measurement of the vote on the overall election result. Written vote on their participation in the electoral process in a way that fully ensures its validity. Creation of a new single district of Greek residents abroad, elected by five to seven MPs through the parties' special lists, in order to ensure the real representation of the non-Greek voters. The seats thus occupied will be removed from the predominant ballot. Greece has always had many immigrants abroad. In addition, in recent years of the crisis and of the memoranda a wave of immigration and, indeed, young people of high education have been recorded. These people must maintain ties with their country, feel and be active citizens of their country. History shows that Greek foreigners show the most beautiful, most powerful and creative face of Hellenism. This is another Greece, a great Greek force of seven and a half million people, whose hearts are beating for their homeland and lying next to it whenever she calls them and whenever circumstances require it. A force which, over time, promotes Greece's national, economic and cultural issues abroad. It is our duty, therefore, and not our concession, to embrace all Greeks without discrimination wherever they are, and to move along with a spirit of unity and unity, especially at the present juncture with the difficulties in our national, social and economic issues. The unity message that Greece should transmit and the honor and recognition of its children living outside its territory should be timeless. The right to equal voting without restrictions is undoubtedly an effective proof of recognition of their offer, but also equal treatment. The dispersion is an integral part of Hellenism and must have a voice that can be heard clearly and loudly towards everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, too. Mr Constantine Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I have heard a lot of the good colleagues in the New Democracy and I think we all think a little - we say something that has the same denominator. We don't want to give you the credit for this bill. We want to give it to Mrs. Jackie. It is the one who said something very nice and obvious and bound SYRIZA to lift restrictions on the electoral rights of Greeks abroad when he came to the government. This public commitment was, of course, not a personal commitment of its own, but was a clear and responsible position of the institutional MP of the SYRIZA for the Greek-Democratic Republic. Regardless of what SYRIZA then resurrected, and Mrs. Jackrey was switched to Nadia Comaneci by reconstructing. And yet, in the belief that he meant what SYRIZA said, Mr. Vorides immediately transferred these commitments to the Greeks abroad. Minister, you don't have your God. You did it with a law and an article to facilitate opposition. And to tell the truth, I thought that would like this to be the staff of Mr. Tsipras, who likes "one law and one article". The difference, of course, between Voridis and Tsipras is that the minister is doing them post-elections, while the former Prime Minister refers to such interventions only in the run-up to elections. Minister, I would like to stress - to make a little serious - that this element of simplicity distinguishes the bill and, as previous politicians have said, many definitions and specialisations in the concept of democracy actually alter its content. I would remind you that labels such as 'league' or 'lao-democratic democracy' have in practice proved to be debatable lesbians, which only did not describe democratic regimes. So the right to vote, when it is subject to a number of bureaucratic restrictions, is obviously limited in substance. And this inexorable restriction of such a fundamental political right obviously cannot be democratic. For this reason, the Ministry of Interior, seeing the great problems of implementing the two-year stay provision in the country, found that proof of this status of voters cannot be made in a way that is easy and equal for every democrat. He found something to which all of us should have agreed from the outset that civil rights in a democracy are its founding stones. And in such a real democracy as ours cannot and should not fundamental rights be linked to unrelated things, such as where one submits his tax declaration or where he works. For example, a party such as the Communist Party, which says it represents the non-preferential, cannot refuse to exercise their right to vote on Greeks abroad, but only accepts it for those who would have the opportunity to buy a air ticket and come to vote, that is, the privileged ones. Because that is exactly what differentiates voters from the JRC. If they have money, they also have voting rights coming to Greece. If they don't have any money, they don't have a political right. One should, of course, also say to the Communist Party, which, in any case, is addressed to an enclosed audience, that it is a bit behind. It is not, therefore, distinguished either for its extrovert or for his love for representative democracy. It says courageously that it wants another system of power, which has nothing to do with 'civil democracy', as it describes it. On the other hand, this is not and cannot be the position of the overwhelming majority of Greeks who wish to elect their governments by direct universal suffrage, as the Constitution calls for. Because of my participation in the last circle of speakers, I have had the opportunity to hear several colleagues who preceded me, and I must say that as far as the left parties are concerned, I have not been able to follow their arguments very much. I have heard Mrs Apache of Mer 25 talking instead of the bill on the professional rehabilitation of a medical colleague who, of course, thank God, did not have to go abroad, such as thousands of other new doctors my colleague to find a job. Of course, I do not understand, since he had not even left abroad, how the bill is related to the Greeks and the Greeks, this memorial from my colleague. As far as SYRIZA is concerned, however, unfortunately things were not better. I have also heard Mrs Rallia Christidou, for example, trying to link the bill to the European Court of Human Rights, who, in passing, stated and unauthorised for the electoral rights of the deceased Greeks. SYRIZA's colleague, of course, didn't just stay there. He remembered a little the bad right that pushed Greeks to immigration for decades, creating a system that pushes Greek society - listen - listen! - to seek profit. And here perhaps the exaggeration may also be due to the artistic property that was perhaps inspired by Stelios Kazantzidis and "The passport" to speak about the "small as poison" sufferings of immigration. And, of course, these positions of SYRIZA may not be just a remnant of another time, but also concern its idealism towards today's reality. Because reality has been known for decades. The system that is motivated by the search for profit is called a liberal economy and exists in all developed countries in the world. The reason why many Greeks hosted was, of course, not the proper functioning of such a system in Greece, but the very opposite, its malfunction, which those who migrated, considered they lacked the potential for economic progress and professional success. Where there are alternatives other than the liberal economy should, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, at some point tell us. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I have also heard Mrs Jackson claim that it will be nationally harmful to vote for Greeks abroad without restrictions. Now Mrs Jackson has changed her position a little bit and she tells us that if they vote normally we turn them into a party army. So it will not just be harmful for the country, according to SYRIZA, the right to vote on the part of the deceased. It will create a party audience abroad that will obviously not be controlled by SYRIZA. But this derogatory view is not new. I would remind you that Mr Paulakis has recently introduced them into nationalistic, far-right networks of the federation. So why did SYRIZA do this damn thing, just to say it, it's obvious. He does not want the people to vote because he does not expect them to vote. Those who do not support SYRIZA should also be prevented from voting. This, however, is a deeply undemocratic concept that runs counter to the democratic ethos of the overwhelming majority of the Greeks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u11	Close it, Mr. Maraveya, slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u12	I'm closing, Mr. President. I would remind you that a position in favour of the bill has all been taken, without exception, by the bodies involved in the hearings of the committee responsible. So the New Democracy clearly says that Greeks abroad should be able to vote unreservedly and to count on the overall result. The federation does not consist of second-class citizens. Greeks is an important and largely unexploited advantage of the country. But someone to feel part of the joint effort must be involved in making decisions. The parties that will vote against this bill will find themselves not only against the Greeks, but also against our own history. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u13	Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis and the next colleagues of the eighth cycle are Mr Kouvelas, Mr Theodorikos, Mr Kegeroglou, Mr Papapas, Mrs Konnakas, Mr Simopoulos and Mr Hatzidis. Mr. Triantafylides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to make two political points before entering into the analysis of the bill and in the capacity of increased responsibility of the President of the Special Permanent Committee of the Parliament for Disciplinary Hellenism for four years. Both of my political points have to do with the constantly growing deficit of government trust which is reflected in public opinion. This government catapult has no limits. Monday - Wednesday - Friday Mr Mitsotakis informs the Greek citizens that the pandemic is over. Do I remember 25-5-2020 at the 'STAR' in Mrs Zacharea? 'The pandemic ends'. It was confirmed by the developments. Here's a second and a third wave. And as soon as the Mayor of Thessaloniki met him the pandemic was over and we need to get ready for the next day. Tuesday - Thursday - Saturday the pandemic doesn't end. He said so yesterday from abroad. He said so by applauding and criticising, fighting with his ministers, who have meanwhile done nothing for either buses or preparation for either the second or the third and obviously for all the next waves. This is the government's self-determination and self-determination, where the pan-Hellenic shipowner known to be an insult to the Prime Minister, and the responsible Minister should not have the courage to defend the Prime Minister's institutional face, to say it is raining. Your ministers, Mr. Mitsotakis, toward youth, portrait the lions, in front of the shipowners of cinema mountains, deep bow, mug. I am also intrigued, however, by the presence of the person who primarily represents the credibility of Mr Vorides's Interior Minister. From "babot" from the Step of the Parliament that SYRIZA drugs were promoted as an investment that was voted for by the vote and Mr Vorides, up to the "Macedonian" that this Step described as SYRIZA as a government of national mediation to reach today as the Minister of the New Democracy honoring and applying the agreement as "the light of the true". Mr. Vorides has come up! He is the first Minister of State, Mr Mitsotakis, and now we understand why his political choice has been made. It's the credibility of the man. I close what can be called election sects and post-elections. New Republic vs. New Republic. Kramer versus Kramer. This is no longer a question of what you were saying in the election and what you are doing post-elections. It's heresy and unequal during the government service. In December 2019 you arrived and wanted the praise of Parliament because you managed to form an alliance of two hundred eighty-eight Members. You must be honored by the Greek citizens for that. But at the same time as today's project you want to be honored for the undoing of what you did in 2019 in November. And I come to the feds. Look, the Folk doesn't want to get involved in the current cross-party disputes. He wants to participate in a tender competition at home and not in a deterioration competition. He wants to add rather than remove, multiply and not divide. She wants her voice to be heard clearly, in a crystal clear way at the national centre without the deforming lenses of party selfishness. That's why we from SYRIZA and December 2019 -- and when I was voting, "I vote, with many reservations, the bill", which became law and will apply from December 2019 -- we proposed the single ballot of the Ghost and not the separate party lists, which is why we proposed that the Ghost regions decide for its representation. From the Ghost, with the Ghost, for the Ghost. SYRIZA's proposal - Progressive Alliance, that is, the model of France, Italy and Portugal, has been considered by the Venice Committee - the institution of the Council of Europe, namely - as the best European practice for countries that have significant citizenship. It was also considered to be an best practice, as co-rapporteur for the relevant report by the National Committee on Human Rights. Now, of course, you pour crocodile tears for the Homogeneity. Let's see what you did. From 1975 to 2001, when you put the clause of the two-member parliamentarians, you could have been comfortable, by a simple majority, to have created a law to facilitate the vote of the fellow citizens. Did you do it? Oh, no. It's been twenty-six years! From 2001 to 2015, where did you govern for some years together with PASOK and indivisible, adjust it? Oh, no. Fourteen more years! Forty years you who have been here today for the Homosexuals have not done the minimum not only for the vote but also for the census of the homosexuals. My humility was suggesting: A request remains my proposal for the definition of 2020 as the year of the census of Greeks abroad, which we have tabled for some time now. It is, in fact, disgraceful for the Greek state not to know how many of the Greeks, the Greeks abroad, who are, how they live, where they live, what their relationship with the country is. We have heard crazy things from the committee, from three hundred thousand to three million. At the end of 2020, the Parliament could, since this census of the homosexuals had been made, as does every rationally thinking state, with quantitative and qualitative elements regarding the grouping of their names, bring about serious and adequate policies for the education of the relatives, the Greek language and the culture, the possibilities of resettlement, the proposal that we had tabled for the revival of the abandoned Greek villages as villages, problems with consulates and bureaucracy. Is there any suggestion for all this two years later? No suggestions! Who are they? Where is he? What do they want? How will they implement what they want? What about the CSR? Kuveda, arrogant, arrogant, but only great patriotoral rhetorics of patriots, ethnocalysms, lipsticks for the migrants, because they too understand that all you care about is their vote. That is why you are being sworn, and that is why it is clear that you are turning your back. They said one, two colleagues on Mr Samara's term of office and government. Well, don't you have some historical shame? It is the government that threw 'black', other than the ERT, the 'ERT World' and the 'ERT Sat'. It is the government of Samaras who managed to break down the great antenna of Greek voice into the rocky, which enabled Greek seafarers and Greek carriers to listen to their homeland, be they in Latin America, either in Canada, either in Russia or in any country in the world. And beyond that, the position of 'ERT Sat' and 'ERT World', which you patriots dropped in Brussels, in the frequency of the Turkish channel. I say this, so that the Greek citizens know that the great wombs are not followed by specific acts and that they are specific to them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u15	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u16	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Isn't it paradoxical for the kin to vote from Chicago, Melbourne, Frankfurt, Rostock and choose members from Thessaloniki, Heraklion and Corfu? Represent what? What do Greek MPs know about the problems, the daily life of the Greek impunity, his anguish for him and his children? Amongst all Greeks voting abroad on the one hand, which was proposed not only by SYRIZA, but also by SYRIZA, and by the compulsory counting of the peers' votes on the overall election result, you chose the same vote as an alibi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u17	Please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u18	In conclusion, Mr President, I should like to end by saying that when we talk about the vote on the vote on the Rules of Procedure, when we talk about the equivalence of the voting on the Rules of Procedure, we are talking about the refusal of the simple analogy and the caricature of the known results.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u19	Close, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u20	The right - and I close - to vote and to stand as part of the entire democratic process must be exercised in full by all the relatives. And you can't guarantee it because you're just unreliable. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u21	In particular, your SYRIZA colleagues must be disciplined today, because you have called for the plenary session on your parliamentary group and we therefore have to finish on time. Mr Dimitrios Kouvellas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u22	Then who is he, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u23	The next three are Mr. Theodorikos, Mr. Kegeroglu and Mr. Pappas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u24	Mr. Pope of SYRIZA or of New Democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u25	He's Mr. Ioannis Pappas of the New Democracy. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the second day of the debate on the draft law of the Ministry of Interior on the removal of the last restrictions and the inclusion in the special lists of all the Greeks of our Dispersion and their ability to vote more freely. We're making it absolutely easy for them. In other words, it is an initiative of the Ministry of Interior aimed at making the lives of the Greeks who live abroad, even easier. How are we supposed to prove to them how we count our compatriots living abroad, how we hug them, how we treat them as flesh from the mother's home body? Are we talking about the abolition of all unacceptable restrictions, as Mrs Jackson described? Yes, we in New Democracy have answered since the first moment this debate has started, for years in fact. In fact, we are even discussing the introduction of the letter vote. Of course, there are other political forces, which have, more or less, contributed to the adoption of the law that has been in force for over a year and a half. And since then it was a complex political compromise, I remind you - we had more parties - you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, on the one hand, have been abusively suffocating, on the other hand, because of the dust that you have managed to get up and cover your hypocrisy, you have managed to save the pretexts in the eyes of our fellow citizens. But the masks fall permanently in the debate of today's draft law. It's time for clear talk. It was demanded as a whole by the expatriates who honoured us to participate from every corner of the planet in the discussion of our committee. Clearly speaking, first: What do we have to vote on tonight? We propose equal, unconditional participation of all Greeks in electoral procedures. Clearly speaking, second: Why are we not content with the recent law of 2019? For the reason you know very well, that, that is, this law imposes restrictions as a product of a political compromise. We have been clear from the outset, right to vote on all the homosexuals without any restriction. Clearly speaking third: Our foreign compatriots honor their homeland internationally with their achievements at all the lengths and backs of the planet. Do they have to participate freely in the national elections? Yes, you do. We say this and we say it again because you seem to be involved in another debate, you are having another debate, especially the SYRIZA colleagues. Clearly speaking, fourthly, must this inalienable and well-established constitutional right be exercised without any condition? Oh, no. We'll agree here. There must be one condition, namely that they should be registered on the special electoral lists, but none else. Clearly speaking, the New Democracy's fifth and clear position: anyone who has the right to vote in the national elections also votes for the government of the country. In other words, every Greek citizen's vote, wherever he votes, counts on the overall election result, makes Greek government. We do not accept two-speed citizens, two categories whose vote will not count as the final result. You are bringing in my mind once again in the most indecent way the political difference with the politician in the end. This game is played for two days now, but also for the committees that preceded it. With a very style, with a lot of irony, your SYRIZA colleagues blame the Minister, the government for partyism, for authoritarianism. It's another conversation. So he is the politician, who thinks of the next elections, unlike the politician who thinks in the next generations, who thinks of the interests of the whole, the vast majority. A clean sixth conversation this time from Mrs. Jackie. What did she say in her interview with the "NATIONAL KINGDOM"? All the Greeks of the diaspora vote. Of course, we agree. "We have," he says, "some restrictions that we will abolish as soon as we become a government there in SYRIZA. These restrictions are unfair." Indeed, Mrs Jackson responded to a need for Hellenism. In a reasonable request put forward to her, she gave a reasonable answer. Did it express itself freely? Was it hypocritically expressed? I don't know. It is important that it was sincerely expressed, but if it did "assuming" then. We will therefore agree, we do not disagree with her at all. Let us not also look at who said what in previous phases. It's over. We're looking forward. The legislative initiative of the Government and of the Ministry of Interior responds exactly to this request from our relatives, as expressed by Ms. Jackis as the head of the Greek-presidented sector of SYRIZA. So let us give a definitive answer, an end to this debate and make a reality of what our emigrants are asking for. It is self-evident that it has been in force for decades in other countries with great confessions too. It is from the letter of vote, the vote by a representative up to an electronic vote, as a Estonian citizen is entitled. They see the rapporteur, the SYRIZA Members, that the proposal for a law of the Government works divisibly, that Greeks will not be able to vote nationally, they will have to vote partyly. But, well, you simply analogous everywhere, wide and deep participation do not understand what makes you difficult to give our emigrant compatriots this opportunity at last to be able to vote in national elections, nothing more, nothing less. It's our story, it's our culture, it's our strength to serve our national interests. The stronger it is, the better it will be in foreign decision-makers. You saw what the Armenians have achieved recently with the disapproval of their genocide by the negotiators by American President Biden. Eventually, Mr President, it is worth using a simple language from the Turks. And here we are still discussing what goes without saying. There's nothing outside the House. The out-of-presidents are the continuity of the country. It is time to grow even further in Greece. It is a historic responsibility. We have a chance today that I would say it's forbidden to let her go lost. I urge you to vote in favour of the draft law under discussion. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u27	Mr Theodorikos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u28	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, good morning. I would like to start my speech reminding me that today is the second anniversary of New Democracy's great victory in the European elections and in the self-government elections of 26 May 2019. It is a victory that surprised the then government of SYRIZA - ANEL and opened the way to the great political change in July 2019. Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy - and this is a big deal about the issue we are discussing today - have come to power as expressions of the great social majority of the measure and of the logic, the self-evident reforms and the need to overcome the traditional dividing lines between the Left and the Right, based on an agreement of truth with the Greek society. Thus, the party expressed citizens and social groups who had a lot to do with the difficult years of the crisis and the memoranda. Ladies and gentlemen, it took forty-five years after the adoption of the constitutional provision for the right of Greeks abroad to ensure this possibility under certain conditions and restrictions. This was done on the legislative initiative undertaken by the Government of New Democracy in making this a pre-election commitment and enacting Law 4648/2019. To reach this success, a success for the New Democracy, a success for the entire political system and Greece, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis met with all the political leaders, setting the framework of the agreement and followed very long detailed meetings in the intergroup. Through a very difficult, complex job, we have reached a compromise which has actually brought together nine hundred and ninety votes. A lot of people wanted to take that effort back then. But we insisted. And with the full support of the Prime Minister, the solution has been reached, which includes serious retreats and compromises from the positions of all parties, of course also from the positions of the New Democracy. Our time-consuming attitude was and is that all Greeks abroad who are registered on the electoral lists should vote without any blockade, no condition, no restriction. This is a democratic position, it is the voice of the reason we said earlier. This voice was supported by both then and now by the Change Movement and the Greek Solution. SYRIZA wanted and wants to prevent Greeks from counting on the election result for the formation of a government. This is a dreadful attitude which is also offensive to the Greeks abroad, while the JRC also raised the question of proving the link between Greeks abroad and Greek reality as a precondition, with the crucial 15 votes needed to exceed the twoteen votes. So the well-known clause has emerged in the last thirty-five years that these citizens have lived in Greece for two years and made a tax declaration in the last year. And only when the Civic Opposition saw the constitutional welfare for a majority of two hundred seats being fulfilled then joined the agreement and the self-evident, ladies and gentlemen, a position that there can be no two-speed vote or Greek two-speed votes. That is how a very important acquis was created. Today we are debating at the initiative of the Ministry of Interior to change in the right and self-evident direction this acquis, removing the terms and conditions contained in the existing law to which I have already referred. It is well known how we have come back to this debate. The responsible Deputy Head of SYRIZA in an interview said her party would abolish these unfair and unspeakable, as she said, restrictions - which were imposed on us, as I have explained before - when she comes to power, in an eruption and demagogy explosion of one second. Because it is obvious that her party has a different position, that SYRIZA continues to fear the vote of the Greeks abroad. This, ladies and gentlemen, is a great mistake. Greece needs global Hellenism. She should embrace her children throughout the earth without discrimination and exceptions, and the parties are worthy of it and should deal with this without micro-party calculations. It is my belief and because of his professional status that the electoral tendencies that are formed every time within the country also attract the respective electoral tendencies of the Greeks abroad. Humanity is a village. Everyone communicates their ideas and opinions throughout the earth. I therefore call on the Qualified Opposition to rethink its stance on this issue and to contribute positively to the new initiative of the Ministry of Interior. I have no illusions, but you are politically obliged to deal with it in a completely different way. Ladies and gentlemen, during the public debate that has taken place all these weeks, various misconceptions about the law in force have come to light. I shall refer to them, because it is obvious now - and it is one reason I expected to speak towards the end of the debate - that we do not have the opportunity to concentrate on the removal of the double-vote restrictions. We have made a great effort and the Greeks know it abroad. Sadly, we're falling into the wall of Officer Response. Wrong position number one. The regulation we have done concerns few Greeks abroad. It's wrong. It concerns, in principle, essentially without conditions and conditions, all those who are thirty years old and who are abroad, provided that their parents have Greek VAT. The generation of Brain Drain is therefore already guaranteed the right to vote without conditions. And this is a great conquest, I repeat, for our country, for this government and for the entire political system. It is a great profit for the country, because without the new generation this country has no future. It is also obvious that anyone within the last thirty-five years has two years at any level of education, practically can be included in the special electoral list. One Greek, for example, 50 years old, who finished high school in our country or university and left abroad, can vote from the country where he is located. The exact number of these people technically is not difficult to identify. In the time I served as Minister of Foreign Affairs, despite the pandemic which obviously created huge problems in implementing this law, I had discussed the matter thoroughly with the Minister of Digital Governance and there are concrete solutions that can be implemented and, in fact, relatively quickly under certain conditions, in order to make a way out of the difficulties that this problem has. I would say, after Operation Freedom, the successful vaccination operation, let the electronic operation 'Participation and Democracy of Greeks abroad' take place, which will bring us results. Second misconception. The Greeks abroad do not respond positively to the regulation that we have voted on. This is true of a section of the Homosexual, which is indeed excluded from the blockades. The truth, however, is that most Greeks abroad do not know the arrangements of this law. The campaign that we have voted on in the same way must be carried out. It has been done at the Ministry of Interior and on my day, and I am sure this thing is going on properly and is on track. And it should obviously be through the communication campaign, in which we must all contribute, inform the citizens, in order to make their effective and effective participation through this law. A third conception discussed in the public debate is that consensus undoes the political identities and the essence of political forces. Allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to say that this unacceptable myth. First of all, as far as this issue is concerned, this is an unprecedented absurdity. By definition, we need two hundred votes and this requires consensus and consensus. There's no other way. There is no problem with violence. Now, today, everyone realizes how difficult but useful and necessary it was what we achieved in December 1919, when SYRIZA was forced to change its position a lot, which said it would not count Greeks' vote abroad to show up a government and accede to the agreement and the vote of the bill. If we had not achieved what we achieved in December 19, today, after a few hours the end of the debate would have led to total disappointment of the Greeks abroad. One hundred and fifty votes today, if we did not have one in December of 19, it would mean that no Greek foreigner can vote from the country he is in. That's why...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Theodorikos, you have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u30	I shall conclude immediately, Mr President. Besides, I think I'm using...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u31	Okay, that's why I'm showing tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. At the same time I have to say with satisfaction about the law we have that today I would be happy, if there were also a majority of two members, to abolish all restrictions. It would be a huge political, moral, human, national, patriotic satisfaction for me. The New Democracy is not only afraid of shocks and consents, but is systematically seeking them. And this is a timeless reality that historically symbolizes the great political initiatives of the founder of the party of Constantine Karamanlis, the respective initiatives of Constantine Mitsotakis in the period '89-90 and all the political leaders of the party over time. And that still applies to the difficult circumstances we are in today. "Greeks are very few, to be divided," said Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis from this one Step on December 11, 2019. Extremely time-consuming place with a very long time-consuming place, especially now that the country is tested by the Koronioi pandemic and the protracted exacerbation of Greek-Turkish relations. And these words have lasting meaning and symbolic meaning, because we have finally left behind the consequences of a civil war that filled wounds in the country seventy years ago, because no artificial division is going to work, wherever it comes from, and in any case is unjustified. Besides...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u33	Come on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u34	I shall conclude, Mr President. Allow me. I speak once a quarter. After all, all the political forces have ruled the place. Citizens draw their conclusions. They compare people and governments. And it is obvious to most people that the old left- right dividers have faded and are unable to interpret the modern world themselves. This, of course, does not mean that the policy is detoxified, but that every person and every political force must define in a modern and positive way the contents of the ideas it empowers. In our view, freedom, solidarity, patriotism continue to inspire and act as an incentive for political participation. And because we believe in these values, we want all Greeks, wherever they are, to be able to vote from the country in which they are located for Greece. In any case, when this debate is over today, we must all, in its own capacity, contribute to the participation of Greeks abroad in the next elections, and I am sure that this will in turn lead to all of us overcoming ideas and humiliations around this issue and then to take new steps forward. We compare global Hellenism, because that gives our country power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u35	Well, the flow of colleagues will be interrupted, because the President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Velopoulos, has asked for the floor. Here, Mr. Velopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. With regard to the speech by Mr Theodorikos, with whom I have spoken many times, I must remind him that what he says today is on the phone when we were talking about the bill. We told you the project wasn't going to work, we told you you were wrong with the project. And you come today and put right on the rails that we put in December 2019, to change rota. So you were wrong as a New Democracy then and now you are trying, copying us, to do the right thing. You said that bill was a compromise product. Listen, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. When you want to compromise with the Left of the Prespecies Agreement, when you want to compromise with the Left of the referendum, when you want to compromise with those who were saying other things and others did either as naive as they were, whether they were ethereals or aphroiskite or stereophobic. You can't be anything else, how can you compromise with these people? Tell me. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] All the above, however, suggest that you are a non-serious government and I say it politically, elegantly. You said, Mr. Colleague, that the Prime Minister is the Prime Minister of Unity. He's the Prime Minister who said we're few to be divided. We, Mr. former Minister, tell you this. After saying that, he called the half Greek "sprayed". I mean, the one who wants to unite swears half the Greeks. If this is called a union operation, I think we have a different conception of unity. Let's go to the bill. We have a completely different approach from the New Democracy, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. For us, it is not the intention of the Greeks to vote. No, you're making a mistake. For us targeting the Greek Solution are the Greeks who left to go back to Greece. The seven hundred thousand Greeks who left to go home. That's our target. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I am also saying this because I have an experiential knowledge of this. My parents twenty-five years - the Minister knows - my father miner in Germany only had one point to go home. He sent through the National Bank his money to Greece in the 1960s and 1970s when he worked there and said, "I will once return home." The same fact is true of the Greeks who have left now. The Greeks, twenty-five-year-olds, 30-year-olds, thirty-five-year-olds, the blossom of the next Greece. So he, the bloom of the next Greece, which you have cut, you have cut and you have cut, we will bring him back home, he will come back, because you have kicked them out of Greece. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So I'm saying this and I'm going to say it one more time. You're not listening to the Greek solution. Unfortunately, here, we have both SYRIZA and New Democracy's peer-to-peering. And you're all talking about the expatriates, and you don't know what a kinman means. You don't know what it's like to live in Germany, work in the mines, you don't know what it means to be a man who works fourteen hours a day to feed your family in Greece or send your money here. I read on Facebook from fake left-wingers that the one who lives in Germany, Minister, has no right internally. Who's saying that? Those who banished them from today's 30-year-olds in the past few years say that those who left moved abroad because they couldn't find jobs because of the bad governments in Greece do not have the right to have an opinion on Greece. What shame and shame to be called and written by False Left officials! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because for me left as a party, if you like, it's the KIC. That's it. All the others are fork left and I'll prove it to you in a little while, both the socialists and the others. Why? SYRIZA asks the vote of the relatives to be counted only, says, in four regions and not in the territory. What's more ridiculous than that as a argument? So, how's that gonna happen? How is that possible? How can this be done? It's incredible what people ask for. But, you know what's going on? When you don't have any biscuits, when you don't have any arguments and when you're out of statements by Ms.Jakris, you go one from here, says Mr. Tsipras: "We'll be here for the vote of the homosexuals, everyone" and it's just Mr. Katrugalos, you understand what party we're talking about now. It's not like that, Mr. Catrugale, unfortunately! And I'm talking about the relatives. Why? Because from this generation that has left and from those who are there we can draw successes. Even the followers of the vaccine, who are most of them here, are all talking about Burla. Immigrant is also, he left Thessaloniki and the man grows, as he is magnified in "PFIZER". These minds are not needed by Greece? Can't these minds have an opinion on Greece? I don't get it. They must have an opinion. And they must have all the brains because there are a lot of brains. Because Mr. Theodorikos spoke of compromises. Yesterday, friends and friends, it turned out to be an orgy in the Greek Parliament, a state of trade between parties. I grieve to say this, Mr Voridis, but as the chief minister, Mr Voridis - Mr Tragakis, let me - what you did with the AACC is scandalous. Big scandal. Transactions of parties to make their own choices. It is rageous what the government did yesterday, unfortunately, in cooperation with another party. And I ask the Greeks. Isn't there a communist good at S.H.I.E.L.D.? A Syrian, a neo-democrat, good, wasn't there good to put, Mr. Vorides, Minister, gentlemen of the New Democracy, on the AACC? Was everyone supposed to be PASOK - KINAL? But people don't know what's going on. If they do not vote in the Conference of Presidents three fifths, no one is elected. And here, then, I'll say it straight away. A party, a government such as the New Democracy, is coming along under the table, above the table, above the windows - I don't care - with just one party to place it at the Conference of Presidents. Athanasios Papaioannou. Current Vice-President, proposed for president. Secretary of Parliament, appointed by Mr Papandreou. Free Macrylakis. Currently a PSA Adviser, a Vice-President is hereby proposed. Political office of the Minister of State PASOK Stavropoulos served at the Ministry of Transport in a political office of Minister Reppa - Ragosi, PASOK. Panagiotis Karkassoulis, whom I properly appreciate, clear things, as a natural person. Member of the State of Potami, current member of the EP - KINAL, Secretary of State for Civil Protection, candidate for KINAL. Maria Gotsi. It's recommended as an advisor. President of Athens Administrative Courts, excellent in its work, study in Brussels, European law, known as the one in which it belongs. George Doles, a special scientific partner of a PASOK MP. I'm not saying they're not good. What I'm saying is, didn't New Democracy have anyone else to put in there its own? Were your neo-democrats, your executives, not good enough to enter the ADP? From the JRC, a communist good guy isn't in the country? One! You know what I mean. Why did there have to be a transaction? I'll tell you why there's a transaction. Prepare for the next elections, they come recruitment and you want to make a quota, unfortunately, for recruitment. Make the ASP for recruitment, for votes and it's shameful what you did yesterday. Shame on you, Mr. Voridis, gentlemen of the New Democracy! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You go out to your voters, you New Democracy MPs and say that to the AACC: they only put stakeholders, because that is what some wanted. Don't laugh, ladies and gentlemen of PASOK, you know what power has been like for decades. You used to make people comfortable. I'm going to testify in the Minutes all the resumes of these gentlemen. And why I'm saying that. Because after the elections you will need corporations and you know that the Greek solution of this unwilling policy, anti-economic, anti-popular, is not going to be anyone. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And corporals you've got. Enjoy them with SYRIZA and KINAL. Pick up the story that you're running underground. But I am sure that none of the journalists, any channel of euro millions, will tell this topic I have just said today. They'll all bury it. For with two grand some fake journalists speak and moan all day you and the exit from Egypt, not to mention Moses. I'm saying that because I'm sorry about everything that's been done. I was expecting executives like Makis Voridis to operate because I knew him from the past, but sometimes you assimilate yourself to the system, or he's made out with the norms of compromises with parties who wanted to put you in jail. Let's not forget that. Not you, ministers of old New Democracy. Let's go to the economy, Mr. Minister, Mr. Voridis. After a deep recession of 8.2% - in fact it is 11.5% -, a deficit of almost 35 billion, red loans and debts of over 240 billion, public debts of 374 billion, the government plans, says, growth of 4%, surpluses and debt reduction. You have a wrong tactic. I insist on that. Continuous lending. What you are doing to give us money finds us agreeable, but the purpose of which I give us money finds us opposing. You're giving them to consumption to the Greek people because you're expecting elections. Instead of giving them to productive sectors of the economy to produce wealth, so that we do not borrow, so that we do not get more indebted, what do you do? You do the same thing you did in 2004 with 2009 and took the PASOK after a bomb in his hands. That's the truth. You're lending. You're getting loans. Loans need to be paid. It's not a loan growth. It never can. And I ask any Minister Stakoura. Is he getting a loan in his house to live? Because when you get your home borrowed and consume, you get iPhone, Samsung, you get TV big with borrowers, at some point you have to pay for it. If you don't have a job and you're unemployed, they'll take your house and the TVs and cars. That is what the neo-democrats in Greece do today. They come out and say, "We borrowed with low interest. We went out on the market." They do not say 'loaned', they say 'we are on the market', Mr President, your ministers. When you go out on the market, Mr. Colleague, it means you borrow money, doesn't mean you produce it as a country and you pay out of it. But the loan must be paid for by the next generation, my Admiral. The next generation that is already in debt from the previous and the previous generation. What is the difference of the Greek Solution? We're interested in the money these particulars you get as a borrower who's gonna pay for them. We don't want our kids paying your loan. We don't want the young children to pay your loans. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Friends and friends, for me the economy is a very big issue and we need to talk at some point seriously. New Republic, KINAL and SYRIZA have built a state industry. State-owned industry, as I say. The state's few-government business we're paying and we're going to pay. There are no Greek businessmen really who make a lot of money in this time period that is not connected to the state. From your wind farms, from your streets, from the ports, from the airports, they're all state industrials. With the money of the Greeks they become rich. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The parties' involvement with them is given, is consolidated and unfortunately goes very deeply into the political funds of the parties. Proof of the Greek court's decision on "SIEMENS", where a party there said the cashier that the money went to the party, did not take it, he was acquitted, Mr. Tsukatos, but the party and the Prime Minister, Mr. Simitis, in the absence. And the strange thing is the Prime Minister has, Mr. Vorides, a love for Mr. Simitis, a love for all the Pasokos and KINAL. I, too, ask the voters of the New Democracy. Is that what they envisioned as a government? Have you in person the Simitis of Imian, the Simitis of the Loans, the Simitis with the technical shapes, the Greek statisticals? Is that what the voter envisioned? Is that what he wanted? New Republic, SYRIZA and KINAL have deinvested the country. That's the reality. They kicked out companies in Bulgaria. I have told the Prime Minister, we have a ready study to bring the companies with a turnover of 6 billion from Bulgaria to Greece. Six billion, and about seventy and a hundred thousand jobs. They sought unemployment to have a client state. Listen to what they did, what they're doing now. They announce fifty thousand recruitments in New Democracy. A.S.A.P.A.'s checking it out. They put the passons in so they can do whatever they want with the hires. And they're not ashamed, they don't feel, like the children of the KKE, the Greek Solution, the Mera, the SYRIZA are not Greek children. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm ashamed to say that. I never expected the "excellent" to be so useless! Because it's useless what you're doing, not useful. You divide the Greek people. You've raised graduates for decades. We're full of graduates. Hydraulic you need at home and you can't find Greek. You need an electrologer at home and you can't find Greek. Specific technical work that we in Germany need in Germany are deported to Greece, as if the plumber, as if the placer had a coronary, as if it had an infection and cholera. If we don't reorder our education, if we don't make productive schools really that produce technical training, but mostly with certain elements and papers, so that we don't get from here and there anyone who's given black money, then we have a problem, because the children they studied have doctoral, postgraduate, degrees and they're unemployed. Thirty-five years old children unemployed. These children, who you falsely made with degrees without connecting the labour market to the universities, are starving today. You want the Greek wardrobes. That's the truth. We want the Greek bosses in their place, with work, with dignity. That's what we want. That's our difference. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You share benefits. OAED, Minister, has decided that only two hundred and fifty thousand Greeks want unemployment benefits. Unemployment reaches one million and thirty thousand Greeks. How do the unemployed live? Unemployed people who do not find work - why is the unemployment fund for a year, not for more, ending later - how do these people live? And what are you doing, Minister? And it's wrong. You're subsidising unemployment. You should not be subsidising unemployment. I remember with Mr Voridis in 2009 - I must remind you - we were drinking here at the coffee shop and we said it was wrong to subsidise unemployment. Subsidize the businessman to hire people so that the Greeks can have a job to learn what it means to work, work, produce. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Produce soft workers. Why should I listen to young people nowadays, ladies and gentlemen, say 'After I get five hundred euros, why should I work to get five hundred more?' If he sits down and you give him five hundred euros, why should the other one work? I ask the company, to which I am a shareholder, people with political sciences they have studied, people who work, six people and I don't find.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u37	You can't find it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u38	They come and tell me, "Go give me a grand, a thousand two hundred, a thousand three hundred. I take five hundred and sit."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u39	Well, not a thousand...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u40	No, that's us! If you give less, it's your thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u41	Oh, you are galantus!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u42	That's what we give. I'm not a galant, I want the Greek to be paid well to have a duty to work well for me. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] That's our difference. He'll be paid well for being able to work for me and anyone, for all of Greece. So I say this. Why shouldn't we do that? Writing. Now listen to a complaint. Fire extinguisher that was purchased with fund-raiser money no plates. The Ministry of Transport no longer has a contract with the company and can't print signs. Complaint, I've got it here, and I sent it to the Minister. Volunteers printed signs, but the Transport Department won't accept them because the contract with the licensed company, the chigo, is over. This is your state today. We have a fire-fighting vehicle ready to go take out the fire, and because the Transport Department hasn't made a contract with the licensed company, it can't release the vehicle. The Corinth burned. But that's where Corinth wanted to burn because wind turbines, like Ms. Sakellaropoulou had previously suggested that on the burnt-outs you could use wind turbines. They're not all coincidences. Symptoms repetitively point to rot. Imports from Turkey. Along with the Turkish potatoes, we will now get Greek cuisines "PITSOS". Nice things. You don't want an industry. You want us to forget that we had factories, that we had a production of wealth, that we had a shipyard. Greece doesn't have a shipyard. We are not enough to close our shipyards in Scaramaga, we are also paying a fine of EUR 1.2 million per month in the European Union for not to settle a Memorandum Directive. One hundred and forty-two million euros have been paid from 2011 until today for our shipyards, for our property. I have the document here. And finally listen. For a long time now, Mr Villardos has asked Mr Adonis Georgiadis specific questions. Listen a little. I ask Mr Voridis, I certainly don't imagine, but I ask the government, the Prime Minister. The government paid the 30-15 million advance for the Greek by the Latsis Group, yes or no? This amount of 2020 and 2021 has been entered in the budget. Are the three hundred and fifteen million euros paid by Latsis, yes or no? Or did you serve Latsi again? Why is he your friend? We're asking. Without Latsis giving a euro or a euro - your God! - You made him an entrepreneur in Greek. So I'm becoming a businessman. It has raised 1 billion of its own funds from loans, with a public guarantee. Listen to what you did: Bonds EUR 1.5 billion and sells it beforehand. He bought me an acquaintance at the skyscraper already, made a deposit. An advance! The man before the project starts has put in his pocket 2,5 to 3 billion euros. Yes, he's making advances, Mr. Brutsi. He gets, Minister, advances. I can tell you his name. Advances get 20%. Incredible things! Aeratzis! The classic airtight type, this is Mr. Latsis, who, of course, you inflamed him well, very well! I'm not saying that the government took money, but started ELPE in the past to Mr. Latsis with the oil, gave him all those nice for free in Chohatzopoulou. The New Democracy with Latsi now follows the Greek. Aren't we a little embarrassed? Investment means 'I bring EUR 2.5 billion, I have it, a guarantee here in the banks', not with loans from Greek banks that are already in debt. Greek banks have no cash flow, no cash, no loan to Greeks to get a little house and give Latsis. You'll tell me another Latsis, another Villard. Okay, there's a difference. Minister, our country is in second place among thirty-six OECD countries on child taxation. In the OECD table, Greece dies demographically, there will be no - I will give you them after - Greek in the next few years and the New Democracy continues the same crime in demographics, to tax children as a presumption. We are in second place between thirty-six countries in overtaxing for our children, for our Greeks! Is that right? And that's right? Is it possible that I would like to give birth to Greek women? But I forgot, what am I saying now? After we have Hassan, we have Ibrahim, we have Mehmet coming, the "new Greeks" that the Prime Minister said, because he wants to block - he says - with others, so we don't need Greeks. There's no reason, there's no reason! We'll bring the Afghan, Pakistani, Congolese to entangle us. No, gentlemen! It's only about the Greeks! Greece is a country of Greek, Christian, tolerant for anyone who comes, but it is Greek! Understood! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We are now going to the issue of the coronary. Mr Ministers, now hear: Journalists in "SKAI" and other channels portray politicians. You see Mr. Portasalte more New Democracy than Mr. Vorides. Mr Vorides will also criticize his party at one time, he has been a politician of the New Democracy all day. Pursalte and the rest of the journalists, not just him, all of them! And politicians make reporters. The politician comes out and does analyses, doesn't say what he's going to do, generally speaks, becomes a political commentator. We've lost our compass. Doctors and scientists in the canals become politicians really, serve the foundations of the New Democracy scientists doctors and channels don't call anyone who has another view. They're all horny. Everybody, I'm telling you, they're crushed! There are some local, regional channels, the Alert - if I am not mistaken - presents at night some doctors who have a different view, Mr Gaki, former AHEPA commander. The co-founder of your party, New Democracy, is Mr. Gassis, a new child then with Constantine Karamanlis signed the declaration. This man the neo-democrat says other things than what New Democracy is doing today. And I'm telling you to remember. Top professors come out of Cyprus, from England, Bhakdi, an excellent doctor from Germany, they call them, nobody calls them. The "Foufoutides", "Pouthides", the plastic surgeon, makes a statement and knows from coronaries the plastic surgeon who puts breasts on women who make noses. The other comes out of Alexandroupolis where his work is a biologist and speaks of infectiousness and epidemiology. That's where you became science. Your channels there have become science, a medieval authoritarian servant of a government that is imposed daily by means of media information! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Nine billionaires became from the vaccines. Isn't that bothering you? Nine billionaires! Research: 'People's Vaccine Alliance': Stefan Bancel, Modern, EUR 4.3 billion, Robert Langer, Modern, EUR 1.6 billion, Ugur Sahin, Biontech, EUR 4 billion - in a semester! - Zuta, Blogic, co-founder, 1.3 billion euros, Springer, 2.2 billion euros, Ku Doksu, 1.2 billion euros, Noubar Afeyan, 1.9 billion euros, Maoh Chulchul, 1 billion euros. It's from Biolexis. All these, Mr. Ministers, have made billions out of the vaccines.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u43	Sputnik doesn't exist?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u44	Listen, Mr. Colleague, with a lot of love: Yesterday you know what he said? That the Sputnik vaccine is very good. Do you want one of us to send it to you? Send it to you! The Prime Minister himself said yesterday that it was safe from the best vaccines. Do you disagree with your Prime Minister? I've been saying this since September, and what was I saying? "Make a factory, to get the vaccines out, to produce, to make it!" Serbia is already doing, and Italy is already doing it. If you listened to me in September, you would not have to ask Germany "send us more vaccines!" After you did the flag record, you would have the solution from the Greek Solution ready! That's what I'm telling you. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Prime Minister said it, I'm not saying it. Words are poor when they are written. Vaccines will continue for a long time. The Prime Minister told us in his dictionary: "Make a vaccine, you are saved!" Before he told us "The mask is before the vaccine." He then told us: "Make a second vaccine, you're saved." Now it tells us 'every year we'll have a vaccine.' Then he'll tell us "every month we'll have a vaccine." [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] What was the Greek solution saying? We're skeptical. You can barely go on the vaccine if you're not 100% sure it's safe and we're confirmed. Today we had two more dead and two more clotting people. We were unfortunately confirmed, I wish we were wrong about this. So I say it again: the European Medicines Agency approved the monoclonal antibodies, still the EOF of Greece has done nothing. Nothing! Germany has already taken care to buy hundreds of thousands of doses, purchased them, Greece expects nothing, and Germany expects what it will do to do as well. If we're a residential, protectorate, if we're the other state, the other state - if you like - of Germany, say it. We should know that, too, we are the other state of Germany. We want a government that decides, implements it, commits it and in particular implements it policies, does not accept orders from anyone. It's over and over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u45	Mr. President, how much longer are you going to need?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u46	Four minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u47	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u48	Also, I leave it here: “The vaccines are not safe, cases of myocarditis in adolescents and young people”. And it comes to the point where the Prime Minister of the country comes out and says "I want to make the children a vaccine, the twelve-year-old children." The twelve-year-olds? In no country in the world you necessarily do not vaccinate children, that kind of vaccine. I'm not talking about the U.S. decision, let go of it! I'm telling you about specific things. Where are you going? It's Metanier, Nobel Medical, I imagine he's not Epatylon, he's not Pagon, Nobel Medicine, man has taken Nobel into medicine. He had found out about HIV. And he says, "For mutations it is because of the vaccine and the mutations don't stop." This is Medanier, Nobel Prison Medicalist. And he's a scumbag? And he's a negator? Nobelian medal? Bhakdi, man is a professor of epidemiology: "Greece was the cradle of civilization," - I read it to you, "of Western civilization. All the important things came from Greece, all the things that were created in Europe originally came from you Greeks. Keep being the great nation, don't turn yourself into a nation of ignorant people! Europe needs you, people need you. Nation of ignorant, ignorant, hypnotized, scared, stuck on TV must not be Greeks! They must not be subjugated! Everything they do to you is by command." This is not an accidental man, the health officer in Germany was, and he tells us, not me. You know, I'm not saying what Pagon, Epatylon, Sypsas or Trish. No, I'm telling you what the scientists are telling you, who weirdly no Greek channels are hosting. Why? Nobel Medical, and they don't want him? We don't want him, but we want the plastic surgeon who puts silicones on women's breasts. Is that your science? We give it to you, we return it to you! Any general pathologist can go out on the channel and say what he wants? Are we serious? Also, are you ignoring Bhakdi, Munnier, Raul - a large form - these are irrelevant, but Mrs Pagoy, Gogos, Hectyl, Chiodras is the power of science? Oh, no! It's the other side, the other side. I want them to listen to them too, and I want them to be side by side with a controversy, because they will ask them something and they will not know what they are. That's what I want, but it doesn't do whatever means, even the ERT. If you see ERT, what a hammer is dropping! We speak the ERT ink, it smells to Thessaloniki, and ERT3 adds a little more ink. That's shameful! Honestly, embarrassing things! I could say a lot of things, but there is a group of seventy doctors of epidemiologists in Germany - I will submit the paper in the Minutes - which says: 'Get away from our children'. Scientists say that in no time should children take the vaccine that is conditional, it has not been cleared true. I'll testify in the minutes their names for whoever wants to know. Anyone who wants to know learns. And I'm saying all this, because if anyone here thinks that it's a good foundation for these vaccine companies, then it's a terrible mistake. If they were state institutions, I could say we have to be careful, listen to them, etc. They are private companies for the purpose of gaining and selling vaccines and the New Democracy, unfortunately, along with the other parties, became sellers of vaccines - which are not safe many times - to win billions of companies. Find the mistake! Mr. Voridis, I'll ask you a question. These well-known NGOs, the philanthropists, why don't they force you, the government, to go inoculate all illegal immigrants? They don't get vaccinated. Why should only the Greeks be vaccinated? I'm talking about these NGOs who make a lot of money! You're scratching, Mr. Voridis. I know this is a little difficult, but what should we do? I remember what we were talking about in the past! So I say, Mr Voridis, why is there no vaccination on the structures? You brought an experimental vaccine to see if it's good? Put it on illegal immigrants. [[Noise in the Chamber]] What can I tell you? I'm laughing! I'm laughing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u49	Mr President, you say such serious things, don't spoil it now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u50	Make the Greek experimental animals, guys! All right! Giorgos, Nikos, experimental animal!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u51	Please. Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u52	So I say to the NGOs that if you are expensive, not Greek-phobic, not racist, do not only inject Greeks, do to illegal immigrants or immigrants, to refugees, as you say them. Listen, there are no bad words. There are bad brains. I'm not saying specifically to them, to anyone I'm telling. Don't get confused. But why only the Greeks? And since you are very successful, I read this text from what one of your MEPs says: 'First wave: We had one of the best five performances in the European Union'. It is called the MEP of the New Democracy. He continues by saying "Today, before the tourist season, we have one of the five worst odds. Deaths per million in the last seven days: Croatia forty, Hungary thirty-four, Poland thirty-one, Greece twenty-nine, Bulgaria twenty-nine. These are the first of these.' Kyrchos, New Democracy MEP, liberal like the Prime Minister. It's not on Mr. Voridis' line. Mr. Voridis had another line. Now, a little plausible that way, but I see that he stays there as long as he can, poor guy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u53	We got a line.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u54	I apologize for the word, but it remains as far as it can, in the national patriotic area of the Right of Karamanlis, the Genarch of the New Democracy, which said "Paris - Macedonia - Greece". And today the government says something else. "I will go to Chania, and if the Turkish Minister wants to come for a walk," the Prime Minister says. Now, are we kidding? Are we kidding the Greeks? Is he meeting with the Foreign Minister of another country and learning it from the Turkish media and confirming it indirectly? And why does he meet? Did the Turks leave Cyprus? Did the Turks stop provoking in the Aegean? They're doing "THASOLYKOS" exercise with a hundred and twenty boats tomorrow - the day after tomorrow! How do you talk to Erdogan the fascist? You tell me! How do you even now want to have a conversation with fascist Erdogan? It's a question you don't answer me to! What are you talking about? I'll tell you what you're talking about. Mr. Dendias came out in Saudi Arabia and said Greece was not interested in oil and gas extraction. He said it. That's it. He's not interested in the Aegean! No, we don't! It comes out one week later Erdogan and Cavusoglu, Mr. Katrugale, and they say: "We are interested in going to Kastelorizo." That's who you are! It was a criminal mistake what the great Minister for Foreign Affairs said, Turkey exploits it and says "When Greece does not want us to go." You've opened buyers! There is another mistake with Belarus. It's a crime.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u55	Mr President, I would very much like you to conclude. You've already spent the thirty-two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u56	The Prime Minister is very sensitive to Belarus! Great!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u57	Let him go, Mr. President. We're learning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u58	We're doing no lessons, Mr. Comrade, for all of us. It's good to learn a little more. The Prime Minister had a great deal of sensitivity for Belarus and he did well. And he had to ask for sanctions. But for Nicosia, no sensitivity! Another Belarusian and another Nicosia? Why the same strict statement he made - and we are with him - about Belarus and what happened, he has never done it for Turkey and for Nicosia? Another Belarusian and another Nicosia? Other Kosan, other Lausanne? Poland buys twenty-four Bayraktar! Where's the Greek Foreign Minister? It is NATO's first country to buy weapons from Turkey! Where's the Greek Foreign Minister? Where is the Prime Minister to intervene in Poland and tell her "Don't do this", why does Turkey open a door to buying NATO countries such as this type of armaments? Where is he? Tell me about it. Listen, let's get this over with with any choices you make. If the government - and I close - decides and buys American coastguard ships which the Americans themselves do not want - do not want to be Americans for their own fleet - then we have in front of us the biggest armaments scandal of a Greek state. They don't make these ships for the Greek area! Don't take them, because we'll have a problem, my dear admiral, on the ship's airship! Look at it a little bit longer, because you're making mistakes involuntarily and making mistakes voluntarily. This mistake is voluntary. We warned you, we yelled, we talked, we protested, we talked to the Prime Minister. It's a crime that's going to be done with American ships! Don't do it because it's going to be a big national crime on armaments programs! Arm Greece with weapons, equip Hellenism with self-defense. The prevention is the continuation of serious foreign policy! Also, to say about the claim on the part of Greece of the Pontian Genocide. Let the Prime Minister put it in Cavusoglu in Chania! To raise the issue of Imbros - Tenedou, the withdrawal of Turkish troops from Cyprus! It is the least the Greek Prime Minister can do against Turkey, the Soviet, militant, fascist! I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos submits for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Department of Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And remember something! First it's Greece, first it's the Greeks! This is the solution, the only solution for the place, the Greek Solution!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u59	Before entering the list of speakers, Minister Vorides asked for the floor. Mr. Voridis, would you like to say something about what has been said?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u60	I would like to make a very brief speech, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u61	I'll give you three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u62	It's probably a lot. Thank you, Mr President. I am not in the habit of intervening and my aim was to speak at the end of the procedure, as I have already said. I would like to point out that the President of Greece has little to say about the issue that we are discussing today. A lot said about everything, from the vaccines to the equipment and the loans, until I don't know what. I would like to comment on a matter which has something to do with the Ministry of the Interior and which I consider to be worthy of comment. The rest are general remarks and general political positions of his party. They did not normally have a place in today's debate, but in any case, which is why I am not going to talk about. One point, however, seems to me to be clear, because in my opinion it is the most important one, and that is where things should not be said. The Staff Selection Board shall be an independent authority. It is a principle which is responsible for the public recruitment and there are extensive legislative interventions which ensure the integrity of the function of the same and the integrity of the choice, and that has not been called into question by anyone! The procedure chosen is a procedure in which the Government is not involved. The constitutional legislature has left this procedure in Parliament and in particular in the Conference of Presidents. It has also provided for the widest possible consensus to require that persons should be selected by a qualified majority, which, in order to achieve this majority, obviously requires a consultation made by the President of Parliament on the proposed persons with the Conference of Presidents. This process is now. The required majority was secured and persons of unknown prestige and integrity were chosen, as required by the Constitution and the law. Political origin is something that does not concern us and, above all, that which we consider is whether these people are honest, integer and capable of carrying out the task assigned to them. And because you specifically referred to Thanos Papaioannou, who was chosen President for the ASP, Mr Papaioannou to inform you has been well served as Secretary General of the Parliament on Philip Petsalnicou, Evangelos Meimarakis. He has served well as Vice-President of the AACC all this time and has proved his integrity, honesty and ability. The thoughts you have put forward here will allow me to tell you that they are offensive and degrading to both persons and you are very wrong, but above all to the institution and procedure that has been followed precisely and fully in accordance with constitutional requirements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u63	Mr Velopoulos has the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u64	Well, Minister, for the bill, I said a few for just one reason, because you came to the line of ours. What am I supposed to analyse? The line of ours you copyed today? We told you in December 2019. What can I say more? Secondly, I am asking you, because I imagine you remember yourself from the past, remember it at LAOS, what happened at the Conference of Presidents. Didn't you go to the Conference of Presidents? Don't you know how this process is done? So let me let you know. The chiefs speak at all times on the basis of the Rules of Procedure. Do not change the Rules of Procedure because it does not suit us, Minister. Learn a little bit about the Rules of Procedure. The Rules of Procedure say that the party leader is talking about topicality, he talks about issues relating to everyday life. Second, S.H.I.E.L.D. Did I say people are dishonest? Did I say people aren't decent? Did I say they weren't integer? You say they are integer, honest and capable. But when someone shouts "I'm not a thief, I'm not a thief, I'm not a thief," it means he's accused of being a thief. No, sir. For someone's personal presence or validity I haven't spoken at all. I talked about your attitude that you make with KINAL an agreement clearly underground, superpower, over the table and you only chose pascoons. And I'm saying I'm done here. Aren't there other capable Greeks? Were there no neo-democratics capable of entering these positions? Wasn't there any other worthy people? There were no communists honest, intact, and above all - how did you say so - capable? Is KINAL the only ones capable and perfect? So look a little deeper, Minister, what comes after the elections. You will co-operate with KINAL and SYRIZA, and this will be swallowed as well as the Prespes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u65	Good. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor now. Then Mr. Pappas, Mrs. Konnaka, Mr. Simopoulos, followed up. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. I respect our common origin with Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos and I will confine myself to two comments. We've been watching now, Kramer, against Kramer. He came and told us that everyone is pasophiles, and he came now as Karatzaferis and he messed with his other mate from Karazafiris and the missing one, Adon. Two ministers hit mainly Mr Vorides and Mr Georgiadis. So he either believes what he says or he's making fun of us. But I'm coming to recognize him as an artist in grey propaganda. Gray propaganda is two truths and eight lies. It's different from the black propaganda that's all ten lies. In a sense, of course, the ten lies are easier to distinguish because the gray one who has the two truths puts the simple man in mind. He says, "But isn't that true?" He tells him the truth: “Your name isn’t like that. Yeah. Since that is your name, that applies." He came here and I have to start from it, make propaganda anti-embolism. It is also a question of the Committee on Competition, because its anti-infectious otter, combined with the promotion of doctors, has a question of competition. He needs to know each other, to clear up, baby, if he's a television guy, a media man, a businessman or a politician. At least from this step let us respect the political status, because with it we are here. I'm coming to S.H.I.E.L.L.D. now. Here was the grey propaganda. Half have been said. It was not said, for example, that Thananos Papaioannou was the one chosen by SYRIZA as Vice President of ASAP. For some name he was said to be a party tweak and did not say he was a scientific partner of the ADP today and not a party, as he said. It's the grey propaganda I told you about. But where does this steward start for ASP? And it's a straight question. If he was president of the other pasochus, and he, we, we, his nephew, is in the president's office, then he'd be a good pasochus, and now he's bad for the other one? There is no main party status when it comes to the independent authorities. There may be proposed parties and PASOK, yes, it is true, that he has come out and has many worthy executives to deal with assumptions and situations. However, we do not need those who we chose as technocrats or scientists. We do not need it or believe it, so that there is no misunderstanding, which has been used by our governments as technocrats and scientists for specific work. From where and until where do we come from, a scientific partner of the AACC or a man who has been serving at the AACC for a term of office proposed by SYRIZA? He referred to Mr. Makrylakis. I'm so sorry! So the previous president, who we proposed, was bad, too, because he was PASOK, Mr. Caravockyri? The man wasn't PASOK. PASOK chose him. He was a supreme judge. If it was Mr. Karavokouris, would you agree or was it someone else from PASOK? What's this propaganda here? I'm stopping here, because obviously it was to divert the conversation and take it elsewhere. Here, then, we must say that by listening to the debate on the vote, by saying each of us here, the former Minister, the current Minister, New Democracy, us, SYRIZA, the JRC, much more the Greek Solution and the Mer25 that they are all right and you know what the conclusion and the message that leaves here is? That out-of-democratics are wrong. The democrats are wrong and we're right? Why don't we all sit down and do our self-criticism? We all have a responsibility in relation to errors and omissions and wrong perceptions that previously existed, but some have a responsibility for purposes, micro-groups, which should not exist in this area. The first to think about when a national issue is raised is to be able to influence the governments of the countries in which they live and have a role, both in America and in Germany and in Australia and in other countries. They have a large number of national issues. I said that in the debate on the previous bill, I say it now. This must be the main parameter and not the tax statement. Where and how far does the tax statement come from? Restrictions and cutters are, in fact, unconstitutional. The government is taking a cowardly step on the grounds and the alibi and the real point that "the two hundred must be there and I do so in order to agree". I think it had to be a second cycle. It has not succeeded, except for the fact that the previous political leadership has even passed one collapsing law. We have time to see it again. We are taking the initiative to table a proposal for a law based on five main points. We believe that all Greek foreigners, who are registered on the electoral lists, should have the right to vote. In other words, those who can take the plane and come to vote, who force them to be rich to come to vote - a tax declaration - will have the right to vote. Secondly, they participate in the elections from their place of residence after an update of the registration in a declaration. Participation with a letter vote. They shall be counted against the national result. It is a shame that the vote is not counted. Of course it is negative not to have the right to choose. Mr. Katrugalos did well and he reminded me that it was my position since 2009, but the major is the vote, the cross roll, but he must also exist because you choose and the party and the faces. If we accept the theory that there should be a cross-party vote on the record, which was developed by his colleague SYRIZA from Thessaloniki, fine, five, six of them. Then we come inside for national reasons, for social reasons workers have a separate ballot, other professional groups, etc. It goes to another perception. We don't have that concept. It is not a national board of economics, development, society, etc., which is thus formed. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] So here, with the representation of revenue through regions, but provided that the vote counts, and with everything I have told you, we can build up a basis and have a new agreement. Who are the presidents? Who are we talking about? We are talking about the descendants, basically, of those who left from the beginning of the previous century, but also long before, about the descendants of the people of Asia Minor...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u67	Mr. Kegeroglu, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u68	Just a minute, Mr President, if you would be kind enough to give me. ... those who left the Civil War, those who left the dictatorships and Metaxas and the seven-year-old, those who left the difficult post-mortem years and in terms of economy and survival. And we're also talking about the people who have left in recent years, workers, scientists who have gone not only to find work, but also because they do have pioneers in their science, arts, letters. We are therefore talking about a set of people who cannot come out and say are of the same order or the other, they are black, white, red, yellow. They are Greeks in a different capacity, which for various reasons and with different causes were found to reside abroad. We all respect them. We should also clearly see a plan on how those who choose to return will come, but those who have now settled abroad, as long as they maintain the registration - that is the key - and the link with their country, should have the right to vote in the way we have said. Our proposal will be tabled in the very near future to form the text of the dialogue of a new effort to justify these people who see us and regret the way in which we have been in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u69	The next speaker is Mr Ioannis Pappas from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u70	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u71	What do you want, Mr. Villardo?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u72	A small answer to what Mr Kegeroglu said about the President of Greek Solution. Wait a minute, I need no more. It was obviously annoyed by Mr Kegeroglou that the President of the Greek Solution referred to the procedure followed for the ASP. However, this process, to which he referred, is correct. He said that they should vote three fifths, so the government should consult with another party so that it can achieve what it wanted. It has not been mentioned at all in the quality of the people chosen for the Board of Directors of the AACC. But he said that these people could not be all - everything that was chosen - by just one party, by PASOK. This raises concerns. I do not like these expressions, but I would like to say this proverb, 'whoever has the fly is mystified'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u73	Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, Minister Velopoulos always impresses us with what he says here in Parliament. I would just like to draw attention to two of his words. Because I saw that there was an interest in immigrants, I would inform him that at the moment in Kos and in Lero, the ministry is sending vaccines to start vaccinations as well as to the immigrants who are in KITs. Secondly, I should like to inform him that he is careful, because when he mentions and tells us here, in the House, about the Germans, about a German professor who speaks so beautifully, so dynamicly for us Greeks and our tribe, he cannot at the same time, in the next paragraph, level Greek scientists and infectiousists, destroying them, saying that we listen to Mr Chiodra and one another. It is unacceptable when we say that everyone is talking about the Greeks, we are equal to infectious teachers and doctors, who support so much the effort to solve the huge problem of pandemic. Mr. Ministers, you will allow me to read two statements before I begin my position. Maybe we all remember them. We hear each other often. It's Mrs. Jackie, SYRIZA MP Pella. I would like to repeat them because they will help us to speak. The first statement is: 'Not only will we fight for the removal of restrictions, but we will abolish them as soon as we return to the country's governance. They're unfair, disgraceful. I have no words to describe them." I hope that Mrs Jackson will vote on the bill today. I shall make a second statement to a dear colleague. "To prepare the next elections, with the ambition that by mobilising the nationalist extreme right-wing elements of the federation, you will be able to achieve a difference in letter vote, which will allow either your marginal victory - thank you very much, Mr Polakis - or your non-exhaustive defeat." Every man with an elementary perception would understand that these statements present a fundamental disagreement with the vote on the results. And yet both belong to representatives of SYRIZA, Mrs. Jack and Mr. Polakis. The arguments you have in SYRIZA, Mr Katrugale, are yours, and I would not like to comment on them, because they are internal disagreements and there are too many of them. We all know this in this Chamber, and the Greek people also know it. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on how the Greeks will vote has taken place the deepest disagreements of the political parties, not only of the New Democracy with SYRIZA, but also with the JRC, the Change Movement and the other political forces. Any disagreement and political view expressed on the limits of the constitutional order is legitimate and, if you wish, is the quintourism of our democracy. But we must be clear about ourselves and about the citizens we represent here. So in the New Democracy, we are clear and simple. We want the Greeks who have the right to vote, to participate equally without limitations and exceptions in the elections, and to make it easier for them to do so. So simple, so clear. This bill abolishes the restrictions on homosexual participation in the elections provided for by Law 4648/2019. Yes, the previous bill was a product of consensus and compromise. This does not mean, however, that it was perfect and certainly does not need any improvements. I'm coming back to everything I said before. I want you to take good care of the terms 'equivalently, without restrictions and exceptions'. Why take care of them? Because this is the fundamental difference with Civic Opposition. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA - rather, Mr SYRIZA - you want the restrictions to be lifted, but you have a problem with how equal they are to participate. According to your proposal, the expatriates who participate in the elections - without restrictions, I repeat - will not have the same value in the poll. Why? Because four Member States will be elected by a single list of four geographical units. Their votes will also not count on the final result, but only to elect the four Members. For many it's a technical difference, but it's not. SYRIZA's proposal puts on the surface all the things that are being thrown away and all that the Civic Opposition believes. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, you are disturbed by the universality of Hellenism. It disturbs you that at all the lengths and backs of the world there are people who speak Greek. They are people who see the Greek flag, hear the national anthem, touch the Greek flag and weep. They care about what's going on in Greece. They see the bunkers - you know who we mean - burn the flag and grieve, they get sad. They are more incarcerated than many in this Chamber. So Greek homosexuals want the best for their homeland and want to participate in the election. We have all heard it from the homogenous organizations that have been placed on this issue and have all been clear. And the task of all of us is to ensure how easily this will be done. What you are promoting and, indeed, you are supporting, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, is extremely degrading. You're making fun of the Greeks. You consider our fellow citizens second-class, second-class voters. You want their vote not to count as the rest of the Greeks. That is why you blame them for allegedly participating in nationalist and extreme right-wing networks. But tell the Greeks who left our islands, from Megistis, from Karpathos, from Kalymnos, from Kassos, from all the islands of the Dodecanese, but also from all the parts of Greece and prevented the foreign countries from considering them as far-right and nationalists and that their vote should not count the same. For us Greek homosexuals are far away, but we want to bring them together, because they already feel that they are close to us, that they are with us, that they are with us, not only in the difficult ones. We want them to co-decide with us about the country they love. It is a deeply political issue and it captures all of us. Greece has universal power, you like it or you don't like it. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to close by making a brief historical retreat that can make many here today wiser and may consider the debt that this House has in two hundred years since the declaration of the Revolution. During the 2nd National Assembly of Astros in 1823 there was a great controversy between the indigenous and the heterogenes, as Nikos Alvizatou said in his book entitled "The Constitution and its enemies". At Astros there was for the first time a third controversy, which had to revive many times in the following years: the confrontation of indigenous and heterogeneous, that is, on the one hand, of indigenous proxy and, on the other, revolutionaries, who had stumbled in Greece from abroad after the beginning of the Revolution. This conflict continued at the National Assembly in 1827 in Troisena and reached the National Assembly in Athens in 1843. This controversy mainly concerned the rights of the heterogeneous Greeks to participate in state power. This conflict was the forerunner and the basis of the issue today regarding the participation of Greeks abroad in our national elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u75	Mr. Pappa, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u76	I shall conclude, Mr President. To discuss this issue even today, it seems that we have not solved it after a hundred and ninety-seven years. It is certainly something we cannot be proud of. It is also something that should make many people think about how politically mature they are. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u77	We will now give the floor to the President of his parliamentary group with Mera25, Mr Giannis Varoufakis, and then two Members will follow. In particular, Mrs Konnaka, Mr Simopoulos and then the Deputy Minister will have a short-minute speech here, Mr Lebanese, we shall continue with the list of speakers. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Voridis, today we have the opportunity to do something beautiful, to make a promise to disperse, our emigrants, our hostages, a promise of two hundred years from Astros. Let me remind you that Mera25, precisely because we were the party that required the election of an equal and full right to vote and are elected at the places of residence of the deceased, precisely because we were the only party that was so passionate about this right, we voted against the previous law. The previous law, as we said then, contained two crimes against logic. The first was - unheard of for us - the linking of tax declarations with political and electoral rights, which we had to see from the 19th century, where the right to vote and to stand as elected depended on tax figures, tax declarations, citizens' property. That was unacceptable. You also put that 30-five-year-old arbitrary limit. That is, if anyone was thirty-five years and one day, he could not vote at his or her place of residence, but - here is hypocrisy - he could get the plane to come to Greece to vote. If that's possible! The second crime against logic was that the right to vote was lame in the view that if you were a democrat, you had no right to elect a Member with a cross, while if you were in Evrytania or Crete or Rhodes or Athens, you had one. We were basically saying 'Other rights you have, other rights you have.' At the same time, you did not have the right to vote because the right to vote does not give it to a democrat who was born and grows in Australia or Canada when you give him the right to vote in Grevenas. These two crimes against logic were the reason why we voted against, because we wanted to say it once again - the full and equal right to vote and stand for election. We have also tabled a proposal for a law, and we have said one thing, which we will talk about again today, because we are reintroducing an amendment. Electoral regions from the Greek Democratic Republic. There is no other solution if we are serious about giving equal rights to election and election to the migrants. The fact that today you are bringing back that bill, which we at Mera25 were the only party to vote against, which we had the courage to do, means that at least you agree that it was not the right bill that you should have brought back. It deserves our attitude, which was a resistance to this effort to find you all the other political parties a consensus between you on how best to manipulate the vote. These games with the renowned Greeks and Greek women, we were not likely to simmer them. Now, there is nothing more fine than recognising our mistakes, and you and all of us, and coming to give this House a second chance to do the right thing. Unfortunately, Mr Voridis, what I see is the government's effort to play a blame game, and SYRIZA's attempt to play the same blame game, you also have to charge SYRIZA that we do not do our duty as Parliament's plenary toward the migrants, they have to load it on you and ultimately, once again, to continue the game on the back of our xenophobic children, the xenophobic relatives, fellow citizens, our compatriots in the legs and backs of the country, with the main victim of the concept of isology. Having agreed with SYRIZA last time - and with the rest of the parties, but what you are interested in is this coconut fight with SYRIZA - in these two crimes against the logic that I mentioned - to remind you of what it is, firstly, the connection with tax data and the 30-year-old arbitrary, and secondly, the lazy election and the zero election - you are now coming and you are deleting - and that is good - the first of the two crimes against logic, but you are keeping the second one. Mr. Voridis, adding lipstick to a pig doesn't cover it. Your bill is a "pig" and you put a little lipstick on it. It's not like that. And I'm telling you. I beg you. Stop playing these games between Government and Officer Opposition on the back of our stateless people. One is the choice, since we want to give the right to vote and to stand as a candidate. It's a choice. We have no right to create second-class citizens, citizens who have fewer rights to vote and almost none of them elected in relation to you and me who are here, the Greeks in Greece. Do we want to be consistent in the commonly stated intention to give them equal and full rights? Electoral regions from the Greek Democratic Republic! Look. There are arguments - not that I am embracing them - against the performance of such electoral rights. For example, I mentioned it last time we talked about these issues here, in Britain two years to get away from the country, you have lost your electoral rights. You have to live again in the country a year so that you can have the right to vote and stand for election again. But it's not us, Britain. We are one of the nations created by the dispersion. They keep sending their children abroad, whether it is the 1950 ’ s, the civil war, or it’s a debt colony, as we say, the memorials. I think we can agree on this that we do not want to be Britain. We don't want to say you left for more than two years, it's over, you don't have electoral rights. And now I'm talking to the friends of the JRC. I respect your position, but have the courage to say that whoever leaves over two, four, five years - find a time - has no rights. What you did with the previous law to tell him you have the right to take the plane to come here to vote, but in Sydney or Calgary only if you've done alpha, beta, gamma, delta, and you're going to vote without a constituency, is like you have to vote in Evrytania or in Lassithi, someone who hasn't been there for forty years. And that's right, there's criticism, but how would he or she vote for a Lassithi candidate when he hasn't gone to Lassithi for years? It is undermining and undermining the whole process, the whole logic of the bill, which is to render election and election to the migrants. Our proposal was specific and I will repeat it once again. I would like to see an constituency of North America, South America, Central Europe, Britain, Australia and New Zealand. And here we have to be brave, and we have to take the same political cost. The number of Members elected in each of these regions should be determined as in Greece and in Greece, in other words, in proportion to the number of registered members. If a lot of people have been registered, they will receive more Members, which means that Members should be reduced to another constituency in Greece. Yeah, but that requires a parity. You want the pie all over the place and the dog is full. And not to tell a constituencies in Greece that it will reduce the Members who will have and at the same time say that you will give the vote to the perpetrators. However, you are making them second-class and you are undermining - I will say this once again - the idea that one citizen is active and chooses. When you have a Vancouver resident to vote in Lassithi that hasn't been in years, maybe even if it's a second generation or a third generation, it's not being activated. For us the question - has the JRC and others in the left-wing area put it, is a very important question - is how active these citizens are? How active Greek citizens are they to have the right to decide who's in here? For us what is important in such a bill is the activation of the Greek communities, the strengthening of the Greek communities. I know because I've lived on the outside twenty-seven years. The Greek communities are alive, but they want reinforcement. If you tell them that you know something, in East Australia - which is South Weils, it is Victoria, Sydney, Melbourne, perhaps Brisbane - you will elect one, two or three Members - no matter how many people are written, we immediately activate our Greek compatriots in East Australia. They'll start the processes between them. That means a democratic process. That means politicization. The communities will become more alive. New people will get in there. And you know, friends of the JRC, but also in general, that no one will go to write just to elect a MP or elect a MP. If they are written and engaged, they will be written and dealt with because they want to participate as active Greek citizens. Do we want the Greeks from the world to be strengthened through this process? Electoral regions from the Greek Democratic Republic. There's another issue, because I'm having a lot of conversations with representatives of the impunities and they bring it back, and I understand why they're bringing it back, but I want to put it here at the National Representation to discuss it. They're asking for a letter vote. And they're asking for a letter vote because they have a reason. She tells you the nearest consulate in me is a thousand five hundred miles away. How am I supposed to go? And they're right about that. We, as a PART25, are vertically against the letter vote. And I'll tell you why we're vertically against the letter vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u79	Vertically opposite?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u80	We are vertically opposed to letter vote. But it's important to talk about it. One of the things that we have conquered since the Migration is that we all agree that there is no violence and no fraud in the elections, that votes are not bought. In his letter of vote this is abolished. Here comes the other guy who gives you 50 euros, sees what you're filling up, you seal the file, you're giving it to him, and he's mailing it. Let's be clear. Only the suspicion that this will be the case means that the editorial vote erods one of the conquests of postmultition, that none of us came out to say that there was a vote purchase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u81	That is a very 'true' argument.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u82	That is what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u83	Don't interrupt, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u84	I give you in judgment of what they hear. It is the argument that is only compatible with logic. The lack of even suspicion that there is a sale of votes requires the secrecy of the vote. If you see this "trubic", you do a great favor to Trump and you undermine your situation. I explained to you, Minister, why we are against the letter vote. But we have another proposal, because we accept what the out-of-presidents say, which is a thousand miles away from our consular authorities, either in North America, Latin America or Australia. In particular, these countries. In Europe, it is not that big a problem. Our proposal is this: The Ministry of Home Affairs, you, in other words, to activate a process that ultimately enables the communities of the Greeks, our community in Adelaide, our community in Calgari, there are communities, churches, parishes, to set up polls there with some people who will have the authority of the consular authorities to be responsible as judges. Why do you know what's going on like this? To compare the two situations. One situation is a Greek who lives in a village away from Calgary fills in a biblical vote, puts it in the post office and ends. To compare this with having to go to the Greek, Orthodox church of the city or to the community where they speak and have an activation. This is how the process of activation and the strengthening of the remote Greeks is being set up. Ladies and gentlemen, as Merra25, I assure you, we have very good relations and contacts with the Greek Parliament. We are the only party I can remind you of - perhaps you do not know - that, in our constituent vote - we did not need your law - we had two excellent university professors from Greece. One has never lived in Greece and the other has left her seventeen. He was on our dominance ballot. We didn't need your law to get them. If your law goes through today, we have to win elections. This is for certain, especially from the Brain Drain of young people. But we are a party of principle, Minister. In no case do we accept the creation of two categories of citizens, those who have the right to vote and not at all the election and those in Greece. So we'll insist. We tabled the amendment. I have heard you say, Minister, in relation to our amendment, if I am not mistaken - let me know if I am mistaken, from the Minutes of the House, read it - that you agree a little - very much with the MAA25 amendment, but since SYRIZA is not going to vote, why should you vote for it. Well, that doesn't make sense, Mr. Voridis. If you agree, you have to. If you disagree, do not accept our amendment. You can't hide behind SYRIZA and SYRIZA behind you. At some point we have to stand, as Mera25 does, and do it as a government, and say what we believe in the interests of poverty, in the interests of equality, in the Constitution and in the support of the communities of atrocities, if you agree with us, that the creation of these electoral regions of the deceased will ultimately strengthen Hellenism. If you agree, accept it. And you know what? And not to take the double votes, we'll have set the basis, it'll be a deposit. We will have jointly sent out a message to the emigrants that we want their rights to be complete and equal to election and election. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u86	Mr President, I would like to speak for a few minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u87	The Minister has the floor for one speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Look, I said what I said - and I say it again and now - is this: Two for us are the main strategic prerequisites on which we want an agreement. Two! We don't have any more requirements. One is the lifting of all the restrictions on the appointment of the electorate, which will facilitate the exercise of his electoral right, so that the proposal for a law which does this work - and the second thing we have said - is that we want the vote to be measured on an equal footing. Those two things we said. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] By laying down only these two things as strategic conditions, we said: All the rest, namely the way in which the vote will take place, whether it will take place with one vote or with several votes, whether it will take place with a cross or with a list or with anything, if it will take place in four constituencies, in five constituencies, whether the regions will be domiciled or the regions will have a vote, depending on how many people will be registered, all this for us is going to have a technical debate, which we are ready to do. And I said one more thing: I'm ready to agree on everything. Let the political will be shaped to agree on everything. I'll be completely tolerant, totally retardant. I am ready for this in order to form this type of consensus. But we are not going to play again - to say otherwise - to start 'yes' again,'maybe', 'yes', 'yes', 'yes, I didn't mean 'yes'. Unless we have some clear talk. I told the committee. I sent it to SYRIZA. You will tell me, "Why do you address it to SYRIZA?" I address it to SYRIZA because he has the necessary votes to proceed with this procedure. So I address it to SYRIZA to tell me whether these two conditions are accepted. Once these conditions are accepted, we shall immediately begin the debate with all the parties on this basis in order to resolve all the issues. That is the answer to why I do not go into accepting the amendments today, which I think in any case, whatever the direction is, when we put down the electoral system, we have several technical issues to discuss and resolve and agree. I said some of them. I'm sure there will be more. This technical debate can be easily debated if and once these two strategic conditions are accepted. I say this now: if Mr Katrugalos stands up now and says to me, 'I agree that the vote of the deceased Greeks should be equal,' now I am withdrawing the bill and starting the debate on technical issues! Now, at this stage, right now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u89	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u90	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u91	Here, Mr Varoufakis, you have the floor for a small intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u92	Indeed for a minute, Mr President. Mr Vorides, I happen to agree entirely with the two conditions you have set. No restriction - one equal vote. Your bill, however, gives us the cancellation of the restrictions, but it does not give us the same vote. If you really wanted to do what you are saying, you would start a dialogue with the parties to agree first on what you say is incomprehensible - no restrictions, no equal votes - and after you have ensured that we have two hundred votes on that, then there would be a debate and we would bring a bill. In the meantime, what's this bill you bring? This bill you're bringing violates equal voting, and that's why we're voting against it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u93	We will continue with the list of speakers. Ms Maria Konnaka is called in Stepma by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. In Parliament's procedures there are discussions which operate or are oriented towards real problems. The debate that has been taking place for two days in the House has been the following: To be, from the outset, professed by the government and commonly, a communication firework, a disorientative bipartial impression game. To reveal, you say, the delinquency of SYRIZA is bringing about a bill, which you know from the outset cannot be passed and applied, in order to amend, in fact, a law that was passed by a large majority, with the consent of all those you are currently bailing out. The political extortion, in other words, of all its majesty! Of course, you did not show it so many years either the New Democracy or the PASOK - KINAL, which today appears as the timeless protector of the Homosex, when since 2001, not to say more back, which was even easier - and by 2012, when you were changing to the government, you had much more than two hundred votes required by the Constitution. What prevented you so many years from implementing your vision of the vote of the homosexuals? It was prevented by the great bipartite fight, the competition between the New Democracy - PASOK, the fear of electoral equilibrium. This is your time-consuming interest in the emigrants. Besides, they know it well firsthand. You know, in our areas we know well from outspoken people, all those who persecuted the 1950s, for economic and political reasons, but also the children of our own generation who left by the thousands in the years of the crisis. I was listening yesterday to some new Members of the New Democracy making nosy speeches about the harsh reality that young immigrants have experienced in the years of the crisis. Really? All of these did not push them into immigration a restless spirit of exploration. They were driven away from the policies you have conducted over these years as governments of New Democracy, PASOK and SYRIZA then. Your policies deprive them and deprive them of the opportunity to live and work at their place. It's too much for you all to appear now as their protectors! And instead of now seeking to solve the problems that are being sawn and the real ties with the country, such as the operation of the Greek schools - by 80% it has reduced, only in the last decade, the funding of the education of children of migrants by the "Mother home", Mr Kouvella, who sees them as flesh from their flesh - instead of solving bureaucratic difficulties that may exist in the current law, which may also relate to the situation in which you have brought consular authorities with the dramatic downturn of staff, you choose once again to play political games on their backs, to vote in the most appalling and revealing way. You are consciously choosing to show increased difficulties to show the law and the introduction of criteria as inapplicable. Minister, you were authorized by Mr Theodorikos in his speech, which highlighted how easily all of this can be solved and that the current electoral law really covers a large part of the money. But let us see, is it wrong, unreasonable, the position supported by the JRC, which facilitates the exercise of the electoral right, but does it form a electorate similar to the living conditions of the Greek people inside? And this can only be done if real social and economic ties are maintained with the country. The universal suffrage of all Greeks abroad from their homes may or may not lead to the formation of a vast electorate, one more Greece will dare to say, which will effectively define political developments and will probably not suffer the consequences of any choice, even if they love and honor their origin, which is not called into question by anyone, but have linked their lives and future and, in particular, form a conscience based on the reality and social conditions of another country, when, under Greek law, registration in the electoral lists is done automatically with the acquisition of Greek citizenship, that is, with the sole existence of a Greek ancestor as far away as possible. For many years you haven't even made a census to know how many Greeks live abroad, and that's why you didn't care. Therefore, the undetermined electorate may be actually encouraged, because this is when they vote from their place of origin, vote in the Greek elections, that is to say, to shape the political developments, the everyday life of the country, people who, for example, may not have been found or ever found in Greece and who do not suffer absolutely any consequence from this choice. Is there a risk that this possibility could be exploited to determine political developments in the country? Of course it isn't. That is why these criteria are not just a question of communist inspiration, as you are all saying. You refuse to admit that these criteria apply primarily to international practice for the vote of their income-sharing populations Germany, Great Britain and some with much closer time limits than the two-year presence in the country over a period of thirty-five years. The same reasoning develops the established case-law of the CSR. Was this also taken over by communist obsessions? And it is true, because, in order to distort the position of the JRC, you have recruited even lectures on the nation, which, regardless of how one is placed on its content, we ask you: is the concept of the citizen, according to the civil constitution, and therefore the electoral right itself is not intertwined with the existence of obligations? Will this, without any conditions, facilitate the exercise of an electoral right in an unspecified electorate that can be more easily created when the right is exercised by the place of residence will create or not a large mass of voters who will only have rights and others who will suffer the consequences and obligations they will entail? So who finally forms two-class citizens - that you do not dare to tell the Greek people who are clearly interested in today's debate - when people who do not suffer the consequences of their choices decide what wages the worker will get in Greece, if they work ten-hours, how will it be taxed, how will the education of their children and health be, and that no one dares to support it? And you tried to counteract it with a number of funny things. Perhaps someone, you said, Mr Minister, who lives inside does not have any consequences if he has private security. Doesn't it exist for everything else? Do you live in glass? In other words, we did not listen to such arguments in the first years of law. The only people who live in the country, of course enough outside it, without any consequences, are the shipowners. These, it is true, have only privileges, as Mr Laskaridis described, and he said his opinion on your governments. That is why we say that even if there are possible injustices, some cases where they have real ties with the country may remain out of order, this injustice is clearly less than the one that is created if there are no criteria at all. Did you really think about what a climate would also be against those who themselves if, in marginal situations, election results were judged by people who have nothing to do with the country, what dangerous logic would it provide for inside and outsiders? There is, moreover, a similar historical precedent. Greek immigrants, workers, farmers, students, scientists need to take account of the above issues of political attitude and criterion. To think of who is responsible for their uprooting, about the problems they face, but also who play once again terrible political games on their backs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u95	Good. Next, Mr.Efstratios Simopoulos from the New Democracy. Following Mr Simopoulos, Mr Lebanese, the Deputy Minister of State, will speak to the Prime Minister. Mr Hadjivassiliou will follow from New Democracy and then Mr Pafilis Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in Greece today there is a paradox. It is well known that we are also a country of paradox. To change the Constitution, we need a hundred and eighty votes in the House to change the electoral law and to vote by the junior two hundred. I think we should take this into account and I think it is a matter that needs to be changed. Therefore, behind this paradoxicality, the opposition was hidden, particularly SYRIZA and the KKE, and with advances in sins to effectively forbid Greeks abroad, our relatives to vote on an equal footing. The New Democracy in a compromise move, in a move of realism, took a step forward. It accepted certain restrictions, restrictions which were the time to lift or at least to reopen the debate on how and how they will be lifted. Of course it was opened by the responsible Greeks of SYRIZA, who in a cresent of populism, because it is the populist who actually says what his interlocutor wants to hear, he brought the matter back to the table. And quite rightly, the government is bringing this matter back to the House simply to understand in particular what the positions of the parties for their equal vote really are, but at the same time also, at the same time, possibly find a field of consensus, a field which was even more evident in the debate between the Minister and the President of the party of Mera25. Even this debate alone has brought about a positive result. But let us also look at another subject which has not been raised in the debate as much as it should be. Mostly opposition parties, KIC and SYRIZA, what are they telling us? That the people who left the country either after the great war or at the time of the memorials are people who actually see the problem that the country has and at the same time are against the policies that, in their opinion, brought the country here. In their opinion, we are talking about an anti-democratic regime after '45, '50 and '60s, about black poverty or about the memoranda, because our children were forced out. But it's the ones you're afraid of. And why are you afraid of them? Because the people who left in 1950 and 1960 have prospered and prospered abroad, because there they live in a democratic city with a liberal economy, without stateism and societies based on private initiative and you fear it. They are also the people who left in the 2010s, these citizens of the world. And you fear them, because if they too have the right to vote in comfort, like those of the '50s, the '60s and the '70s, these people of the world will naturally turn towards liberal choices. So I fully understand your fear, because it is a fear that comes from you, because you hide behind such bills and you hide in order not to restore normality. After all, a prominent member of the SYRIZA Parliament has said so. You do not enjoy normality, as normality does not favour, when it comes to private universities, when it comes to the electronic vote on trade unions, as asylum, as is the case with the restriction of demonstrations. And I now come to an issue in general. All of what I mentioned may be for some of us and interstates have no meaning. But they have a badge. It is behind this that the Left hides or hides policies which are generally known as right-wing policies. The separation lines may not be as they were in the past, we may want modern policies, but behind the term Right and behind the term Left hide specific policies, which I mentioned. And behind these policies, progress is also hidden, maintenance is hidden. Because progress is to want different universities, whether in private or in universities where asylum works as it is now, when you want an electronic vote for the trade unions, when the demonstrations must be limited according to their volume. All of this has a fine politics, they are left and right in their modern version. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u97	After the Step is ready, we will give the floor now to the Deputy Prime Minister, Mr. Livanio. And as I said, then Mr Hadjivassiliou and the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Pafilis, will follow. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today the bill of the Ministry of the Interior to remove restrictions to facilitate the vote of non-Greek voters. I am watching the debate that is taking place and I feel the need for me to say two things. Firstly, it is clear that we are not talking about any awarding of electoral rights to anyone. This bill, like the 19th bill, like the SYRIZA law proposal of 18, gave no electoral right to anyone. Secondly, in 2019, starting in October, there was a debate with all Parliament's parties and reached an agreement. I would remind you that the government's proposal was talking about an equal measure of the electorate in the election result of the votes of the non-Greek voters, and, secondly, it also put the letter of vote as a proposal, as provided for in the 2001 Constitution. For some reasons, with reservations from all parties, everyone put water in their wine and we ended up in Law 4648. I listen very carefully to the debate and arguments, especially the Communist Party of Greece, about the deformation of voters who do not suffer their consequences. It reminds me of the debate that took place in 2001 with the hetero-democrats: "But how will a hetero-democrat in Athens put a cross without moving to the candidate of Larissa, the Prefecture of Cyclades and so on?" It is exactly the same as what is said at times: "I, who have been permanently in Athens, can go to vote for municipal elections, for example, in Kavala, without staying there and going on holiday once a year and if I go?" So I think we're starting with an admission in which we all agree, that no one wants to punish the country he loves and you can be sure that the Greeks abroad love the country. And the amendments are being debated above all by the Officerial Response, and secondly, I listened carefully to Mr Varoufakis from Mera25. What did the Qualified Opposition say when it became a legal preparation in 2018? He was talking about a second roll-call, which would have three to twelve Members, depending on the number that would be included in the electoral rolls abroad. In fact, it also had a remarkable, partly adopted, preparation for the way in which the election campaign was conducted with a personal presence, which had been adopted in its conclusion. The New Democracy, as soon as Kyriakos Mitsotakis had been elected president of the party, had tabled twice at the previous session of the House a proposal for a law, which was never discussed. So what is coming today and suggesting Civic Opposition? It proposes that no second roll-call, as proposed at the time, but a single ballot, as they are elected today, let's say, presidents in local communities of less than three hundred people, four electoral regions and, indeed, a cross of preference. And I have a question. Because I honor and respect Mr. Katrugalo and his scientific knowledge, he is a teacher in many things, we always listen to him with great attention. Let's assume, then, that in the Oceanian - Far East constituency there are a thousand voters registered in the European constituency as well as a hundred thousand voters. Will a Member be elected in Oceania and one in Europe? Is that reasonable? Or is it just one, within many introductory, symbolic motion? Two. He said so yesterday and the Minister said so. Can't candidates choose alpha, beta, gamma, delta party? Thirdly, there is even a strange one within the amendment: it is 'confirmed by the consular authority'. We do not even have confidence in the foreign voters that they will be registered, say, in the American constituency. The consul has to make sure of it. What had been done in the European elections and only fifteen thousand people were written and finally 12 000 people voted. And for the cross of preference, it's a big conversation and I'm really sorry. How can electoral spending be controlled in an election region of the American type? Who will be elected to their electorate? There is the argument: "Why had it not happened so many years since the '74s when the Constitution first mentioned it?" I'll tell you why. Because it was practically inapplicable. For the first time, the law of Scandalidis allowed it on substance, because it calculates the total number of seats on the basis of the total number of parties. All previous electoral laws took the result in each electoral district, with the first, second, third and final divisions, and that made the final number of seats. Now it was allowed, in 2004, that the variant of Paulopoulos began, as well as the electoral law passed by SYRIZA without a bonus, but also our own electoral law that restores a step-by-step bonus. On the proposal from Mera25, you say that the elector may go to vote in his constituency, if he wishes. If you tell me how this can be done without a dictatorial vote, I honestly speak to you, I will hear it, and I will applaud it first of all. It can't be done. I should have at Adelaide, as Varoufakis said, for example, I have fifty nine polls, one for Larissa, one for Kozani, one for Karditsa and go to vote. It can't be done. Without a written vote, a vote in a constituency shall not be taken. It's practically impossible. And by the way, it's not just consular elections. Electoral departments gather forty people. So if there are a thousand people and we have their addresses, there may well be a London station, a Manchester station, a Luton station, a Birmingham station. There's no obligation for everyone to be in London. This has already been solved by the law in force today. Closing down, I want to end up from now on. I'm trying to figure out what's afraid of, in particular, the Civic Opposition. He fears that because, for example, he had not gone well in the European elections, the exact same result will now be? He fears that everyone is - how did they say so? - "Portuguese," like? It's not all the out-of-presidents that way. The out-of-presidents are people who can now vote and many of them are coming and voting and are people who want the good of the country. They already have an active relationship with the country. And I'm really sorry because the Civic Opposition brings in and puts a strong institutional veto. A veto which does not allow all registered foreign voters to exercise their right to vote. And I would say that this should be, because even the terminology we use is not a vote of homosexuals, it is not a vote of emigration, it is a vote of Greek voters who today, for alpha, beta, gamble speech, happen to be abroad. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Next speaker, Mr Anastasios Hatzidis, from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in December 2019, we voted for a bill that gave Greeks abroad the self-evident right to vote in national elections, so to participate in the top democratic process in the country they truly love. The government then made a very serious and responsible effort to find the gold incision and to vote for a bill of such great importance by all the parties. In order to achieve the maximum possible consensus and directly implement the law, a number of the positions of counter-population were included. Today the Minister brings a bill that removes all the difficulties and limitations that existed. In a clear way, it ensures the right to all Greeks on the electoral lists, regardless of their financial ability to travel to Greece, to vote in their country of residence. In Greek simply, everyone will vote from their place of residence and the people who have no money to travel to Greece. Really, is there something fairer and more democratic than that? Today, then, all obstacles are removed. We are talking about Greek citizens, who live and work outside Greece, who are interested in everything that is going on at home. And why not? They may plan to get them back here. We are very often talking about the reversal of Brain Drain, a phenomenon that has hit the country in recent years and has deprived us of many good minds and thousands of good young scientists. To have all these equal voting rights is the least that the country can do for them. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, does this bill brought by the government not pave the way for our fellow citizens living outside the borders to keep the relationship with the mother country? Does it not pave the way for them to continue to have ties to Greek reality and feel that at any time, can they return home? SYRIZA again. On the one hand, it reacts to the initiatives taken by the government and puts specific obstacles to the vote of the Greeks abroad. On the other hand, he tells us he wants to take it off once he becomes a government again. And now, to be absolutely clear and honest, it seems that she doesn't know exactly where she's going. In pure Greek, "tricy in skull". Colleagues of SYRIZA and of the other opposition parties, we are responsible for calling on you all to vote together on these very serious and important changes, in order to make it easier for the Greeks of abroad to have a clear voice, to recognise their democratic right to participate in the elections, to give them the strength they really deserve, the equal vote without any limitations, without the same citizens of second-class. Only a condition for them to be registered on the electoral lists of our country. Two hundred years after the Greek Revolution, we are given the opportunity today to restore failures and decades to the detriment of the Greeks who live abroad. We are given the opportunity to finally bring them closer to home to make them real shareholders in Greek reality. We cannot deprive ourselves of the right to equitable vote, for example, by the graduate student abroad or deny this right to young people who have emigrated outside Greece during the crisis and who want to express their political choice in a fair and fair way. We hear their agony, we hear their desires, we hear their concerns, we realize their love for their homeland. Ladies and gentlemen, it is time for our fellow citizens, the Greeks who live on earth. The references to the creation of party armies through government initiatives are the least deceptive. They are unfair and insult, first of all, all our compatriots, all those who live abroad. We therefore call on you to give them the democratic and constitutional right to vote freely and on an equal footing, to vote and to count normally on national results. So, today, we cannot maintain the restrictions on the removal of the electoral right or have atypical two electoral procedures, namely, for us who live here in Greece and another for the Greeks who live abroad, in the diaspora. There are no two measures and two weights at the value of voting. The evasive and constant contradictions on the left expose it mainly to the eyes of our compatriots living abroad. Today, then, we have the opportunity to send a positive and unified message to the Greeks who live outside. Without footnotes, without asterisks, we want our compatriots to have the right to equal voting, without restrictions. We invite you to agree, without spins, on the good of the Greeks who live outside the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Hatzidis. Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Athanasios Pafilis, has the floor now. The Deputy Minister will be followed by Mr Petsas and the speakers will be given the floor by Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. As Mr Vorides is missing - he is not here, that is - Mr Petsa, I would like to ask you to have the Members read the law that we have passed so that they do not come here and say stupid, inaccurate and slandering. They come out and say - and Mr Theodorikos said - that those who have left in recent years cannot vote - but what are they saying now? - they're not. What does the law say? That whoever is under thirty years of age can vote, provided his father has VDU, for example. Everyone votes. You are also saying that all out-of-presidents are excluded. Where does everyone from? With slanders and truths? You were answered by Mr Theodorikos, who otherwise supports the general position of the New Democracy for the previous law. Secondly, Mr Vorides - it's okay that he's not here - he's very galantomus. What he says is, how can I say, not even for kids? "I am ready to withdraw it now and sit down and talk about it, as long as everyone is allowed to vote." Why didn't he? Why did you come here? Why did you bring this bill? What is the purpose of this whole debate two days and four more in committee? What has changed and a new bill is coming, after a previous bill has been passed with objections, with the individual, in any case, a compromise product that you say, with a vast majority? In fact, read what the Prime Minister said and what your ministers said about that bill, that it was very good, and you praised the contributions of the parties and ours even more, and now you are attacking us. That makes sense. What's changed? Then you lied? When you went to this Step and said that "this bill is good", what was voted, and that it solves problems, etc. So, uh, what did you do? Were you kidding? You could say it wasn't good. Secondly, since it is a question of principle to you that there is no restriction, has you now invented this principle? Then you didn't have her? As far as the principle of subsidiarity is concerned, they do not detract from pressure, as you say. In principle, you say 'no, I do not download the bill until the connections are created to pass my position if they are created'. And now you come and do what? Why are you doing this? Has the association changed to the MPs? It seems that not on the basis of the parties' positions. Everyone will vote as they voted and will vote against, will not collect two hundred rather, unless you have any aces in the sleeve. Theoretically. We don't have any information, but in theory to rule it out. So why do you bring it? Because she came out with the responsibility for the emigrants from SYRIZA and made a statement to New York NATIONAL HERYCA, who then picked her up? Is that why? What's that mocking? It's clear what he's serving. The reasons for this are propaganda. Bringing the House a bill and making such a fuss that you know in advance that it's not going to be voted on what it is? Prosecuting politician. And if we're going to say it more rheumatically, because we're also patriots to corner SYRIZA, put him in the corner and throw him in the canvas with what he did and well to get him. We're not apologizing for that. Take care of what he does, because they do the same policy. While they agreed on everything, they now say 'without preconditions'. You also say: "You do not want to make it easier for the Greeks to vote." And you tell us. Who is it? You did not leave the waiters, you did not allow them to vote in the last elections in Greece. Thousands. Many thousands who didn't leave their bosses and didn't vote. Did you not make it easier for them and now you are being cut off for Greekism with the great crowns, the loves, the hymns? But tell us who sent them there? What about us? The Communist Party of Greece? Didn't you send them? Over all periods of immigration. Because the same parties were, regardless of whether they changed names. And especially in recent years. And you're making crowns. But you didn't make any koruna, and you reduced 80% of the funds for education. Didn't you? All PASOK governments, New Democracy, SYRIZA. Did he bring anything back? Oh, no. You say you're cutting yourself off, and the out-of-people have huge problems because the consulates are broken up and they're pulling the mercy to get a paper or do their job. Now you remembered them? For the election? So we're saying why they have to go down. We supported it. Our rapporteur had all his arguments that managed the bill and no one answered. Answer me now. It's an opportunity that the Minister, Mr. Petsas, will speak. What is today, based on anachronistics, we say, the right of blood? Possibly, anyone who acquires Greek citizenship who acquires it when her grandmother's grandmother's grandmother's grandmother's grandmother's grandmother was Greek can be written on the electoral lists, and if she wants to, she does. That doesn't change. The criteria are coming up for who? For those who want to vote at home, not for the rest. And stop twisting that we prevent the emigrants from voting. Why do we call criteria? Is that enough mental ties? So what's that supposed to mean? I feel Greek, so can I decide which government Greece will have? Being 30 years gone, having nothing here, having interests in another country? Is that all the mental bond is enough? What's that logic? So where's he going? We are also addressing the Greek people. So we ask: What is the norm - I say again - is Maria Konnakas said so, said Yiannis Giokas - in the urban democracy you call for is that the exercise of the right also implies obligations. Yes or no, Mr. Kumucaco? Yeah. You can't exercise a right and have no obligation. Isn't that what you keep saying? Secondly, the national states have not been abolished. The decisions are taken at national level by governments and of course by the European Union and by the European Union. Is it like this or not? That's right. So you tell us that we divide the Greeks into two categories. This is a step backwards, and the Greek people must know that too. What do you think? What's the matter with your law? Those who live in Greece who suffer the consequences of the policy of the parties that vote and the governments they choose are one side, and the other is the one who, because of the right to blood, are voting for a government without many times having consequences from their policy. Is that true or not? Others vote and others pay for their choices. Isn't that right? Suppose I didn't go to the extreme. How many are you saying the Greeks are? Ten million. Good, voting for the ten million abroad. Who's taking this in here? So these Greeks who are there will vote on what government there will be in Greece? About whether we have health, education, etc.Huh? Really? Where did you find this written? Is that reasonable? And I'm talking about others coming out of the left, they're supposed to be, the Mera. Is that reasonable? Let us assume that in a critical election battle, 20% -25% of the government's party is condemned and one - and a half million of the democrats vote. And what Mr Theodorikos said about following the trends in Greek is not exactly true. In the European elections that say we are afraid we received 14.5% - 15% of the emigrants in the countries of the European Union. That's not true. Second matter. Mr Varoufakis says: 'I am against the letter of vote, because the letter of amendment can be bought, paid, etc.'. It's a base. We are in a position at the outset, because we believe that the procedures are not done by letters, they are carried out with active participation, with controversy, etc. But the same thing can't happen with the different lobbys? Or don't they exist? Aren't there in America and elsewhere? Extortion can't exist? Can't there be State intervention, government? And I'm telling you something, Mr. Kumucaco, you have experience: you know, with the pit you dig, you may fall in. In other words, Germany with a small percentage of immigrants and making stricter criteria, why is it doing so? Britain - which you said before, the liberal countries, which Mr Simopoulos said there and said something, not to say what - why does it do that? Tomorrow can you define a foreign state - and we are talking in particular about the United States and elsewhere - with an unbelievable work, with unbelievable money, because they also have Greeks - on the origins of at least - of unbelievable money, can it direct, yes or no and intervene here? And you know, can I tell you something else? I was expecting no Bogdano or someone else to put the test of ancient Athens, citizen-operator. Wasn't it? Whoever was a citizen should also be a soldier, that is to say, he should be able to defend the country. How come you didn't testify to have served in the Greek Army? Because it is also an obligation for defence, border protection and so on. Of course, I asked Yannis Gioka when he was talking, but they thought about it better, he tells you, after they're serving the American Army, the same thing is, or the naval. So we don't put up with that kind of thing. I'm saying it now for them like Bogdan and the others. So we have stood in principle and this is not about Mr Bukkokouros' funny argument 'good, that you say, a little mind does not exist', that we are doing so because there are no communist parties - it says - in these countries. Firstly, there are, regardless of whether they are weak or not. Here, the latent language tells the truth, because that is how the New Democracy and the others think, in the logic of the dolls, they think we are doing the same. And I will also tell him by Mr Bukouros and everyone else to read a little story, because the JRC had very strong ties and there were times when the majority of the emigrants trusted him in the federations, communities and others. We do not, however, act in this way, on the basis of certain principles, and we ask for an answer. We also say that they are not all the same. Greek is Laskaridis, Greek is the factory worker, Greek is also the waiter - I say for the migrants - Greeks are young people who work, who study more and more. Do they have the same interests? The same? Mr. Laskaridis told you, and you didn't make it. And for SYRIZA, I'm telling you, he's trying to get out of the whistle fly. What did he say? What we are interested in: 80% of Greek shipowners have foreign flags. What do you say about a Greek spirit or something? Don't you know democratic Greek origins that have made the duck for the Greek-Turkish and have been waiting for a line to change? Don't you know how much interests they have? Here is the most extreme example and the most characteristic. Greek merchant shipping is the world's first - I mean Greek owner - and 80% of the great Greeks have it with a foreign flag, which Mrs Likioli said - listen to what she said! - he said we shouldn't tell them investors, tell them benefactors, because they come to invest to help Greece, not to make money. And you tell us about Hellenism and others that are agglomerated. It's different. And SYRIZA is taking off now. We have flights up here that don't even get caught by radars: Single ballot! Mr. Katrugale, excuse me, but a single ballot to vote? When did this happen? The most democratic parties have always spoken - and it was finally guaranteed everywhere - that there should be ballots to choose. What will he choose from the five candidates? On what criteria? A single ballot and one of each of the continents. And because there was talk of the men of Mera25, who are ready to agree with you - it seemed that way - that is what will happen? Suppose they vote for four million, we will have a hundred Members from Sydney, from Azerbaijan, from elsewhere, who will come here and decide what policy will be followed in Greece and what government is there? Where do we live?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u103	We're only saying four.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u104	No, I'm saying on the other hand, it took you away, after all, with your shipowners, you took off, when you were ruling, and when we said change the Constitution and leave the fifty-seven privileges they have, you made the duck all of you, and that's why you're not to say what they're doing to you. We are therefore addressing the ordinary people, the Greek immigrants who have always been struggling and interested in the problems of the country and the Greek people with unselfishness, unlike various lobbys of enormous economic interests and political interests, and that cannot be hidden. You know, it's not the Greek who dies at work, who lived other times worse than the foreign immigrants who are in our country today. He cannot have the same interests as the employer who can also be Greek. What does the Greek employer do? Does he pay more wages? Is he giving extra permissions because he's a Greek? No, a healthy holding. We are addressing them because they do not have the same interests, because there are the various others who are dealing with their own economic and political interests. And you say that capital has no home and has been proven. And in our country, it has been proven, when they left Greek businesses and went to Bulgaria and elsewhere because they had lower rates, because they could gain more. And stop this myth that they're single everywhere and that everyone everywhere is conscious. Maybe they love Greece. We are addressing them, the ordinary people, who are nostalgic to come back and we know them very well. We are not dealing with today, we have been dealing with too many years. And we've gone everywhere and found them, and when they come here, the ordinary people who worked ten and fifteen hours and stood a little on their feet and dream of some more coming to Greece and dying. What are we telling them? We tell them to join us, punish the persecutors who kicked them out and who won't let them come back. And that is not the vote, it is the economic situation there and other things and the obligations they have created there. We invite them to go beyond disagreements to change this system that gives rise to poverty, immigration, refugee, misery. Greece is one of the world's richest countries for its size, it can nourish not only its children, those who live here, but also many others who would need no immigration, but this cannot do so by law the profit and interests of businessmen and monopolies. It can do so by another economy that has in its centre the human needs, which will have a central design based on these needs and not on where everyone will invest to make most of the money, this system of socialism. We're talking to them. And I will say something at the end of Mr Kyranakis who has come out of a crisp to tell us about the young people who have fled to Europe and who have faced the problem mainly from the northern countries that were called lazy and unprotected: first, who sent them? We ruled? Secondly, what they were told there was you here when the crisis broke out. You charged the crisis to the Greeks, which, based on the European Union's figures, were first in productivity. So stop acting like the one who killed his mother and then wept because he was an orphan. We have some principles and arguments, we don't play games. You play. Proof: You know that you're not going to come here and speak to the immigrants, to the Greeks who are abroad, to show that you love them and care for them. But it is your policy that sent them, where they were sent, and they are not going to come back, because you are preparing them a table. What should a young man come here to do, work twelve hours? He works in Germany too! To do what? You're abolishing everything! Make him work as a slave of 1800 and 1900? That's not why he's coming! And that's where it'll work - because there's the same mess it is - but it'll get more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u105	It is precisely in the total time you are entitled to, Mr Palphie, that is, protology, dentology and tritology. We will now give the floor to the Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u106	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u107	What do you want, Mr. Gregoriadis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u108	Mr President, the Parliamentary Representative of the JRC has given us the floor. Give me a minute, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u109	Good, you have the floor. You are a parliamentary representative and you can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u111	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u112	Yes, but, Mr Kumucako, you have asked for the floor. You are a special speaker. You have a parliamentary representative. Let the parliamentary representative take the floor. With the same logic, every special speaker will want to take the floor. Now, if it's just a series thing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u113	It's obviously not a personal matter, but I accepted...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u114	You're not listening to me. There's no record of anything you say. If I don't give you the floor, everything you say is not recorded. So, gift free. So he asked for the floor and Mr Gregoriadis and you. You'll talk and we'll give the Minister the floor. So you're starting for a minute - soon, please, warm request - as are Mr. Gregoriadis. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u115	I have received a personal question from Mr Pafilis on specific matters. And who was that? But before I go to the specifics, I have something to say in general. With Mr. Pafile and the perception of the Communist Party of Greece separates us from space, astronomical distance, ideological and political. We're two separate planetary systems. This does not stop making Mr Pafilis' speech one of the two-day most interesting on this issue. So I would like to make two comments on this. Mr Pafilis asked me if I know - as he said, I know - the systems of Germany, the United Kingdom and Greece, and why there they do not give total, unrestricted and undetermined access to their own dispersion and Greece wants to do so. Mr. Paphie, compare apples with oranges. These countries have nothing to do with Greece. Listen. Compare Greece with its characteristics, with two other countries. Greece is a small country in a difficult region, with specific problems and challenges to respond. It does not have the luxury of having no functional, productive and close ties with the Homogeny that constitutes a Greece outside Greece. Greece therefore has an absolute need for this very close and functional relationship with the vote. But this is where we enter the heart of your true businessman and real reflection not only of the JRC, but also of SYRIZA. If the Greeks, the Greeks abroad, were a small number of voters, today this bill would have been passed not by two hundred, but by three hundred. What you are concerned with is because it is great, because it is numerous and - I reverse your argument - precisely because we have a Greece beyond Greece, we have to restrain it, we have to keep it close to us, we have to give it a functional relationship, we have to recognise it the right to participate in shaping the historical course of the state and nation. And using the word "national", it is our other ideological difference. You, because of your ideology, are interested in the citizen. We're interested in the nation because of ideology, and that's basic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u116	Article 1 of the Constitution. Read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u117	Wait, Mr. Palphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u118	You'll answer later, Mr. Pafile. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u119	This is our basic ideological basis for them. Finally, speaking of a nation, I need to talk to you about shipping. You're attacking shipping on the occasion of an unfortunate episode. Greek shipping is a source of power for the country. Greek shipping is a factor of national power. And because you have also spoken of foreign flags, I have to tell you that the foreign flags chosen are the result of two things, not of strong maritime education in the country that needs to be done, but of a very hard trade union attitude, in terms of the flexibility that the market needs. These two factors have led... [[Noise from the wing of the JRC]] And that's why you have a responsibility...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u120	It's our fault, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u121	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Paphie, just give us a second to get in touch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u123	I would like you to give me time to answer, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u124	I'll give you time. Because I understand from Mr Gregoriadis' intention to see that he is also addressing you, you will collect everything, as the ministers usually do, to answer a whole question. Here, Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. I, however, do not wish you, Mr Palhei, 'Minister'! Away from you, I wish the ministers! I would like to say to you, Mr Pafile - I have listened with caution - that the Secretary of Mera25 said, speaking a little while ago here, that all of us who consider ourselves as left-wing, must have the Lefkada and honesty to look at the Greek people in the face, in the eyes and tell him that if he really wants to represent himself as they deserve, he should be in the process of reducing seats in the interior and being given there. From this I think you were caught and said: "And what will happen if ten million Greeks suddenly start voting abroad and get the majority in the Greek Parliament here in our country?" I would therefore reply to you, Mr Palhei, that, in my view, this is not a left-wing position. You are sowing fears and completely impatient. And I ask you directly, so you can answer me immediately afterwards. What do you mean? Do you mean that it will suddenly catch five million Greeks to acquire citizenship that they have not acquired so many decades? And be careful. What will be the incentive for that of the five million syndicates living abroad? Destroying the democracy of Greece, can Parliament not function? In my opinion - and I am telling you very respectfully - these are not serious things and they are not left things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u126	Mr. Catrugale, and you have asked for the floor. Here, then, you have the floor for an intervention too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. I have just taken the floor one that you have had the initiative - with which I agree - so that dialogue may be a little more alive to give the floor to Mr Kumucako to be placed, to say my own opinion to what Mr Pafilis said, with many of which I agree with. The main problem that New Democracy has is that there is indeed no country that has a significant spread, such as ours, and accepts the model of full representation without weighting. Israel, for example, which has a corresponding dispersion, as you know, does not allow the vote to be taken at all. We obviously do not want this, and that is why we went to the other model of European practice, the model of France, Italy and Portugal. Mr Pafile, Portugal, which has the same population as us, has four Members. In fact, it is a law that has been passed by a progressive government. So I am going to ask - I have reservations about doing so in my dentistry, but now better, so that you can answer your own dentistry - to find us a country that accepts what you are saying, since we should have a reduction in best practice. And I will remind you in my denture that Mr. Gerapitris, not in political capacity but as an academic, was referring to similar cases. In the questions put to us in relation to the single vote, we are stable and unconditionally in favour of simple proportional. But we are talking here about a one-sided region where the simple analogue cannot function. This is the model where there are similar seats, in France, Italy and Portugal. There is no other possibility of applying this model. Finally, for your remarks on shipowners, not on the unfair criticism you have made to us, but on the criticism you have made of the unacceptable statements, the latter, you are absolutely right. In fact, it has given me great impression because in the public speech the criticism focused only on what Mr Laskaris has on the Prime Minister and not on another phrase that he said, which is even worse, that is, that the "Greek Government does what we shipowners tell them". It is much worse than what Mr Laskaridis wants to behave with the Prime Minister. Our policy, obviously, was quite different from that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u128	Good. Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u129	It seems that the JRC's attitude is interesting, but no one responds with arguments in our position. Nobody, except if they've been touched. And I'm starting with one or one. Mr. Kumucaco, Israel, which is all your favorite allies, doesn't it have restrictions? Nobody. Ireland, which you had as a model of growth? Does he have any limitations?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u130	In Israel the numbers are upside down. Dispersion is bigger than those inside.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u131	So what? That's what it's guarded from. You say we have two Elles and it's ten million inside and ten out. Isn't that what you're saying? So when are you going to change? When the tie changes? So that's not right. And why isn't it standing? The European Court of Human Rights has decided on this and says that it is legal - to say so - to restrict the exercise of the electoral right. This does not prevent or violate human rights etc. To go to the shipowners. Okay, are you serious? From you, I did not expect you to say that they are on other flags, because there is no education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u132	He wants modernisation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u133	Don't you rule all the years? Modernisation cannot be done by air. It's made by the governments. See what the naval school students require and what you do. There is nothing to be done. But what I didn't really expect - from you at least - is to say it's the fault of the seafarers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u134	I didn't say that, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u135	That's what you said. You said the trade unions, the trade union movement. These are not dared to be said by the shipowners, who are prosecuting the Greeks, because they have to pay a collective contract and take Filipino and others with 300 euros a month. The inhumans! Fifteen months, eleven months to dangling for 300 euros a month. That's how they want to go to the Greeks. Didn't you get out by law, too? Do you know what a sailor means? Have you lived it? Stay away from his family. Do you know how many hours seafarers work? Twenty-four, if necessary. And what are they paid for? Do you know that they pay more tax in Greece - we got the evidence, someone had the courage and gave it to us - the crews, which are around the twenty thousand over - under what the shipowners pay with this inferior, the incredible wealth? This is for shipping. And I said that to support the criterion that it does not mean that it is of Greek origin too. All these why do they go to foreign flags, even if we accept your arguments? Because they want bigger profits. And we're talking about profits unbelievably. These ships, Greeks, lead them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u137	No, don't open it, because we'll talk by night.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u138	In my dentistry, I owe you a proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u139	So there's no controversy, because we're gonna start playing the courgette. I'll tell you they'll vote a million and you'll say no, they'll vote four hundred thousand. I'll tell you two million. Is that possible? Maybe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u140	One thousand. One in a million.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u141	Yeah, now we're taking the statistic. I say what you vote for, because 'whoever pees at sea will find it in salt', as the proverb says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u142	Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u143	Don't answer. I heard all your objections. You say, "Hey, you say." You say that the Members are elected today. If they vote a million in America, how many MPs will be elected and where will they be from?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u144	How many people do we need in democracy?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u145	Where does it come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u146	In democracy, Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u147	Please, Mr. Gregoryde.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u148	Excuse me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u149	Democracy, you know, is a candy sucker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u150	Nothing better has been found so far.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u151	Really? Why doesn't anyone answer? Someone who has no connection with Greece. Nobody. What's the bond? Do I feel Greek? I feel like an astronaut, too, but I'm not. I'm just saying, for example, not to tell anyone else. What's he going to say he's going to decide which government we're going to have in Greece? Since he has no connection with Greece, he has never come. I'm saying extreme cases. That is why we are setting a number of criteria which show that they have something to do with the country. And in the end others will vote and others will pay the bride? When the alpha or beta government makes decisions, who's gonna pay them? The living in Australia, so I can say it like that? The living in America, which has no interest in Greece, in other countries? How do you appreciate that? And what are you going to tell the world tomorrow? You know that's too dangerous. And because someone talked historically, he had come once, it became a mess, the inside and the outside, and then he retired. We don't think they're going to vote. Besides, they have the right to blood. We're talking about getting criteria to prove they have something to do with the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u152	Mrs. Ligoli, what exactly do you want? You want to say something. You raised your hand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u153	If I know you're gonna refuse me, why would I ask for something to which you're gonna answer no? However, it would be appropriate to regulate - with my fellow Members we have said - and not to take the floor on such issues of general interest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u154	I don't know if you've followed it, but the first Mr. Kumucascus made it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u155	I watched you all.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u156	...secured on them or some...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u157	Because by name I asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u158	No, I don't blame you. Mr Palis was obliged to reply as a parliamentary representative, as was Mr Gregoriadis. If you want to say something about it, I would be very pleased to give you the floor. Do not blame me by saying that I would deprive you of your word even if you asked me, as you said. That is unfair to the Bureau. As far as what you want to say is concerned, the seconds of the rapporteurs will be in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u159	First, we have a different sense of humor. Secondly, I am pleased to hear Mr Pafile and Mr President, Mr President-in-Office, I just wanted you to determine when we will have the seconds, whether we will have them before they are connected to the colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u160	The abbreviations will be made after they have been placed on the lists.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u161	Okay, thanks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u162	We will now give the floor to the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Pecha.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Although Romeliotis, Mr Pafilis has produced a very interesting debate, which I too would like to take in three points and comment on. Firstly, Mr Pafile, what political and economic system is causing wealth, prosperity and supporting democracy and what political and economic system is promoting misery, redistributing poverty and leading to oppression has clearly been seen in the past century. Second comment. You spoke of Israel. You, who believe in historical materialism, are inextricable comparing this comparison for a state that was created by dispersal rather than backwards. Thirdly, with regard to mocking. You said that we are playing, that we are mocking because we know that it will not be voted on with the required number of permanent Members. But if anyone's making fun of such a top issue, like the right to vote, how can it not have been revealed who's being fooled? And what better forum than this House to look like who's mocking? And if we are talking about a mockery that needs to be revealed in order to be politically condemned, because it binds with its vote the future of our country, this must be done here. You have also referred to the electoral lists. Isn't that a capable bond? You said quite rightly how the electoral lists are being drawn up. But we are not talking about an amendment to this system, but about how we will make it easier for people living abroad to exercise their right from home. Therefore, since we have a political force here which states that any restrictions that existed under the recent December 2019 legislation are insulting and must be abolished when it comes to power, what better than discussing in Parliament how can this be lifted and revealed if on this top issue anyone is mocking and isolating politically? It's a top issue. This debate is of historic importance and dimension. I now come to the main body of my speech, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on the vote of revenues is directly related to two major issues. The first concerns the relationship between the national centre and the offspring of the Ombudsman. The second concerns the quality of our democracy. The government's position on these issues is clear. The vote of the results reinforces the links with the Ombudsman and ensures equality in the exercise of civil rights. As clear as possible, it should be the attitude of the other political forces. Unfortunately, however, some opposition parties, and in particular the Civic Opposition, are attempting to turn these self-evident findings into a dilemma. The current leadership of the Ministry of Interior, like the previous one, does not move in the logic of 'all or nothing'. Therefore, the previous law of 2019 was the result of fertile compromises made by the government, in order to allow it to be voted on with the required extended majority of the parliament, i.e. at least two hundred MPs. However, we believe that the restrictions on the vote of the relatives - this particular embezzlement, as Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has described - prevent the contact of Greeks abroad with the national home and must be abolished. We have heard the Civic Opposition in the past few days accusing the government of micro-grouping purposes, voting methods, opportunistic policies, communication fireworks and so on. As usual these objections to SYRIZA have nothing to do with either reality or seriousness. How can New Democracy, the only party that supports over time, with such a strong and consistent commitment, facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad? There has been no New Democracy government in the last few decades that has not tried to secure the parliament's approval for the vote on the falsifications. Unfortunately, all those efforts failed because there was not the required parliamentary majority. Since taking over the leadership of the New Democracy, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has made systematic efforts to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad. The New Democracy, as a forceful opposition, has tabled a proposal for a law, which the then SYRIZA government has diligently abstained from discussing. And finally we had to have elections and take over the country's governance in order to achieve the required cross-party consensus, which allowed the law of 2019 to be voted on by parliament. And at this point I would like to point out, because many of the officials of the Anti-Population Officers have said that the 2019 Act was a product of compromise, but the New Democracy has never abandoned its basic position that Greeks abroad should vote equally in national elections, without discrimination, exceptions and restrictions. The solution given by the Law of December 2019 was not the ideal, but was the only realistic, from a political point of view. It was a first substantial step in the right direction. And with this step, we have finally been able to break the cord of the inertia and the inactivity that has been surrounding for almost half a century the issue of the vote on the frustrations. All of this demonstrates that the New Democracy's concern for the expatriates and their electoral rights is neither opportune nor temporary. We do not treat Greeks abroad as a pool of voters, but as a pool of forces of universal Hellenism, which, with appropriate use, will contribute even more effectively to the promotion of national objectives and the defence of the country's interests. The vote of the bill under discussion will be another important step towards upgrading the relationship between the family and the mother country. He will send the respondents a message of unity and credibility. Equivalent participation in national elections is not just a symbolism. It is a matter of the highest political and national importance. Unfortunately, this does not seem to be the case, nor does it seem to be the case, which has so far remained a commitment to hypocrisy, ideology and fearful syndromes that characterise its attitude in this particular matter, but also in general. That is why, despite our repeated calls, they refuse to answer the simple and clear question: do they want to vote by the democrats, yes or no? It is obvious that SYRIZA fears the vote. They're afraid they won't vote for them. They fear that the equal participation of the Greeks abroad in the elections will release forces that cannot control them, something like those uncontrolled joints of power that their Chief had spoken about some time ago. Their fears thought they would hide it behind the law of 2019, when they voted on it with the logic of “strong through the engagement”. And today when it's time for them to take a clear position, they're back on the hideout, half the logs and the recurring, trying with lame arguments and tens of all the pretexts to avoid confronting with the truth. The fiasco with the statements made by Ms.Jakris to "NATIONAL KYRYKA" revealed the bilingualism, opportunism and unforgivable hypocrisy that characterise the SYRIZA's stance, even on such serious issues as the participation of the peers in the elections. And precisely this bilingualism and hypocrisy have highlighted today's meeting in historical, historical and political terms, because it seemed who want a special apartheid in Greece of the 21st century, who want citizens without equal rights and even the top ones, which is the right to vote in elections. The Greeks abroad, our democratic brothers now know who they want to make easier and who they work for. We all have a political and historical responsibility to send a strong message of unity and coexistence of Hellenism for a better tomorrow for our country. The consequences of the pandemic and the great challenges we face in national issues, ladies and gentlemen, in the economy and in other fields require national turbulence, not barren confrontations and divisions. And the present Greeks abroad, especially the new generation which has been unravelled in recent years, which must participate with its vote in the decisions that will determine the fates of the country. Greece enters its third century of life as a free state and changes. Ecumenical Hellenism can look into the future with confidence and pride. The vote of the testimonies is a vote of hope and confidence in its power, so that all Greeks together, from every corner of the world, draw a light course in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We will now continue with our fellow Members who will speak via Webex. The first speaker is Mr Theodoros Karaoglu from New Democracy. Mr. Karaoglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. I shall begin, ladies and gentlemen, with a point which deeply regrets me. The vote of our compatriots, our compatriots, should not be divided. However, the Civic Opposition unfortunately underestimates and impropers Greeks abroad. It considers them and treats them as second-class citizens by proposing the establishment of four seats for out-of-state voters and, in fact, on a list, without counting their vote on the overall result. In other words, it calls for the vote of our compatriots who live outside Greece not to have the same weight as the others and not to have the national effect. Apart from derogating, this view, ladies and gentlemen, is deeply unconstitutional as it conflicts with the principle of equalisation. The truth is that SYRIZA fears the vote of Greeks abroad, and that is why he refuses to facilitate the exercise of their rights. He proposes his micro-party interest, sacrificing the undeniable need for the government to have a close and nationally beneficial cooperation with the Homogeneous community. Somehow, while the vote of the abstaining Greeks should be the most consensual and - in my opinion - a super-party bill, SYRIZA is trying to trigger a political conflict, seeking an action field. Except that not everything is not a political point of view, but it is a means of unjustified controversy and an attempt to impose long-standing immobilisation. Of course, I respect and understand that, based on the ideological differences that divide us, we cannot agree on many things. There are different approaches which lead to arguments in favour of one or the other. However, if we want to honour the oath that we have given at the beginning of the parliamentary term, we must protect the long-term relationship of Greeks living within borders with those abroad. We should leave them, in other words, outside party controversy, because Hellenism is uniform and indivisible. Where there is a heartbeat there, Greece also exists. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2019 the Plenary Assembly voted in favour of a law that gave emigrant Greeks the right to vote. We restore a great injustice and in order to give it a cross-party dimension, the government has been compatible with certain restrictions. The 2019 legislative initiative was obviously not perfect. However, this does not deny that it was a decisive first step and now we have the opportunity to agree all to a better version of it, which will be more representative, deepening the links between the mother and the homogeneity. The bill entitled "Delete restrictions on registration in special electoral lists abroad" enlarges Greece, broadens our country, which is evidenced by the warm support of the Diaspora organizations that participated in the relevant discussion of the bodies in the relevant committee of Parliament. In their entirety Greeks abroad, using unspeakable arguments, supported their right to participate in the electoral process from their homes, since they are of course registered on the electoral lists. They even raised the question of letter vote, which is the case with the majority of the countries of the so-called Western civilization. After all, it does not mean that our relatives are Greeks to foreigners and foreigners in Greece, and that is something supported by the President of the Hellenic American National Council, Mr. Vassilis Mataragas, and I am fully associated with him. So, taking seriously into account their concern to reconnect with their homeland, the government is determined to lift restrictions on the exercise of their electoral right so that they can have a say in planning the future of our common homeland. With the new data, the same will apply to the European elections. In practice this means that the right to vote will have at least two hundred thousand Greeks of the diaspora from about fifty thousand who are now. In other words, in sports terms, the initiative of the Ministry of the Interior "downgrades" the expatriates from the strand of developments and places them in their natural position, which is nothing but a "national field". Let me explain this differently. Split Greeks abroad to those studying outside Greece, to those who left because of the economic crisis, to those who left before the 1970s and to relatives of a second, third and fourth generation is not scientific practice, it is a sloppy thought that hurts the migrants deeply and ranks them to those who have left and those who have not been born here. Indeed, what SYRIZA colleague can look in the face of a Greek foreign and deny him the right to vote in the national elections? What fellow Member will refuse to send with his positive vote a clear message of the essential unity of our nation? What colleague will not recognize to the migrant Greeks the right to participate actively in the historic course and path of the Greek state and Greek nation? Anyone who does this assumes a heavy responsibility over the whole of Hellenism. I understand that SYRIZA is attempting to cover Mrs Jacquez's political self-government, but the political need must not be esteemed at all levels. Of course, behind the insistence of Officer Anti-Population to deny the right to vote to all Greeks abroad, there is also a deeper ideological approach from the point of view of SYRIZA. You are having difficulty, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, accepting the concept of nation involvement in the course of the state. It is also a matter of concern to you all at national level. That is why we are talking about Greeks and you, in general, about citizens. That is why, for us, Greece is a country and for you it is just a geographical area. For us Greeks we are a nation, for you they are just a people. That is the essential reason why you deny the right to vote as a whole to Greeks abroad, without conditions and asterisks. Yeah, it's true. In the 2019 Legislation, we compromised and yes, that law troubled the Greeks of the Dispersion. Today, however, we are moving a step further, sticking to our government planning. What we said we do is act. It is understood that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group is voting in favour of the Interior Ministry's bill to remove restrictions on the entry into the special electoral lists of foreign voters. We do so with a sense of duty, because we are very proud of our compatriots who are holding the Greek flag up abroad. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Karaoglu. We shall now give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi. Then Mr. Lappas, Mrs. Vryzidou, Mr. Anastasiades, Mr. Amanatidis and Mr. Folila, the next five speakers, will be followed. Mr Brutsi, you are using as a parliamentary representative of your dentistry and tritology. Right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u167	That's right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u168	You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u169	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate that is taking place today in this House on this important bill introduced by the Ministry of the Interior is a historic process, a process that should unite us rather than divide us. Is this a new conversation that's been going on for the first time? It is worth highlighting the historic path of the Greek people's request, the political system, as has been recorded, for this important intervention in favour of the vote on the revenues. By Article 51, the constitutional legislator in 1975, as the National Admiral Konstantinos Karamanlis rightly saw, was registered in the Constitution of our country which created the welfare guideline through which the Greeks of the diaspora would be legally designated and allowed to vote. For the first time, the New Democracy and the State of Constantine Karamanlis put this political direction in the Constitution in 1975. Was it a legislative record, a constitution? No, it was the ideological suppression of the ideological proclamation of the New Democracy, which matched the nation with the people. This political philosophical position came as a sedation and was captured in our country's first constitution after the Century. This is the first great truth that came as a reserve today, fifty years later, to discuss the same subject. We stayed there? Oh, no. In 1986 and 2001 the constitutional legislators, the House of that period, updated the request by improving it, making it easier to use, providing that legislative intervention must be taken to vote on the Greeks of the Diaspora. So the will was timeless from the overwhelming majority of the Greek people through the parties that expressed it. There was therefore the basis for this regulation. What happened in practice? Unfortunately, in practice, fifty years later, we did not succeed in applying and maintaining the constitutional requirement and 1975 and 1986 and 2001. That's not something that honors us. Are there any attempts in practice? Yeah, there's been an effort. They were made by the New Democracy party, first with Constantine Karamanlis. His attempt at a bill submitted during the period of governance, at the time he failed, was not passed by the Greek Parliament. Then, in the government of Antonis Samaras, a new draft law on the vote on the payroll is not accepted. He didn't come in. Fortunately for the country, fortunately for the place, fortunately for the political system in this Government of the New Democracy of the Kyriakos Mitsotakis, our efforts and earnest desires have taken place. Indeed, with bill 4648/2019 - we have to admit it - there has been a convergence, which is now the law of the State to have a procedure under which part of the democratic Hellenism has the right to vote in the national elections. What we want. But what really happened? In this effort, which we welcome, no one said anything opposite - to tell the truth was a compromise result - we compromised with a reality that said that a first step must be taken, but within us there has always been the second step. The second step is the universal participation of all Greeks abroad in the vote of the national elections and on an equal footing. They are the two basic principles that he reintroduced a moment ago from the Step of the House and Makis Voridis. They're unaltered positions and principles. What are we doing today? Today, having won the first step, the first objective, we claim with this bill the self-evident, that is to give the right to de-democratic Hellenism, to the Greeks of the Diaspora to participate equally and universally in the elections when they take place in our country. In our country? Oh, no. And in their country. That's the reality. Why do we pursue this? Why, in fact, on the historic route of our country, we all recognise - I have heard all the speakers, the rapporteurs, and our rapporteur, George Kumoutsakos, said so beautifully in his introductory position, all the rapporteurs - and the parties have admitted how important, with a different of course special weight, the role played by democratic Hellenism in our country. In difficult times this Hellenism, which is another Greece, apart from Greece where we are, is a second Greece, is the one that hits the door over time when we are in difficult situations, which we ask for financial support, which we ask for political intervention with influence on the countries where the Greeks of the Diaspora are located. They are the Greeks we need, the Greeks we need to create and inflame them with the feeling that they remain here, the soul that they have abroad, with the flag that they have in their hearts, that they have a reaction. And that at least lies in a functional relationship which is at least the right to vote. This self-evident, this very clear, unfortunately seems that the opposition and the parties concerned do not understand it, do not accept it, do not share it. Because, ladies and gentlemen, this is a bill that has historical dimensions, a bill that is currently being followed by all the Greeks of the Diaspora with the same interest, a bill for which organisations of the Greeks of the Diaspora were publicly placed in the process of discussion, such as the hundreds of eight organisations from Germany, who told the Greek Parliament to the Greek MPs: "Take the party labels and embrace the Greeks of the Diaspora. We are Greece beyond Greece', we must be able to collect the two-vote votes until the end of the process. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] In other words, we need to find two hundred votes to bring this bill into force and from the next elections to become a reality what we have a time-limit, bring the Greeks of the Diaspora closer to us, give them the right to take the plane to come, but also to those who do not have the financial capacity to participate in our national elections. I believe that, beyond a formal legislative procedure, we are all aware of the historical importance of this effort by the Ministry of the Interior, which the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is making to act on the second step, which we all need, has been enshrined in our Constitution and now it is an opportunity to do so. I hope, and I hope that by the end of the process there will be a change of direction, particularly on the SYRIZA side. Strangely enough, the person in charge of foreign policy or the resultant Greekism raised the first issue to which we agreed. And it's awkward how Mrs Jackis behaves during the voting process, when, in fact, we are doing what she said in our intervention. I hope and hope, ladies and gentlemen, that the end of the process will bring us together and that there will be the two hundred votes needed to make a reality of this historic bill which will unite Greece, the two Greeks in one! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi. SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ragus, has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, let me begin, because there has also been a debate on this issue, from the very serious issue that has arisen for the first time in the history of this institution, namely the Independent Authority of the Higher Staff Selection Council, which is known throughout Greece and all Greek women and all Greeks. To say that in the worst way, unfortunately, the worst fears we had expressed a few weeks ago, when the anti-constitutional bill, in our opinion, had come here, which established this possibility of extending the mandate of members of the independent authority in a way that finally proved to be no longer intended to complete this fully manipulated operation of this independent authority. The AACC and other independent authorities have been converted into closed professions. As we said then, Mr Vorides, you say - you say, no, you say - and there are no other Greeks, there are no other Greeks, worthy, worthy/worthy in Greece abroad to serve the independent authorities. Only those who are currently active in them and who are serving and only those who could, with anti-constitutional measures, continue to operate with upgraded positions within this independent authority. Secondly, Mr Voridis, but also all those who agreed with you in this ADP staffing, I would like to say - because I have looked into it, one cannot have a thorough and full knowledge of what has happened all these decades within the ADP, but just as I thought it was finally confirmed - that they have never been placed as members of the ADP and any other independent authority in the past. Soon ago I contacted people who are watching, living the ADP all these decades, and they told me that they have never been partisan members of the ADP before. You did it. Ask you, Mr. Voridis, what do you appoint? Andreas Papandreou Anastassis Peponnes and the PASOK of Andreas Papandreou did not establish the ASEP to be appointed to this active party. I should also like to point this out, and Mr Scandalidis and Mr Lebanon have made a special reference which is important, and at least I have tried responsibly to examine it if that is the case. What did they both say? They said that before 2001, before the 2001 Review which provided for the two-vote clause, it was practically impossible to implement a law to facilitate the vote of Greek voters abroad. So that's not accurate either. It's not accurate. For two thousand reasons - which is not this bill and I am simply tabling this opinion - a law could be implemented before 2001 that did not require the two-vote vote to involve and facilitate the electors of Greeks abroad. Thirdly, I would like to make two arguments for restoring the truth on a repetition - obviously on the basis of the preparation made by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group - it was also said by Mr Voridis and by all the ministers who have spoken, but also by most Members of Parliament and Members of the New Democracy. You say - and many and many of you have thus started your speeches - that what you are proposing only concerns those who are registered on the electoral lists. That, at first glance, is so and it couldn't be any different anyway. But that's not the whole truth. Because the whole truth - as has been repeatedly been analysed - is that, based on the 'right of blood', which is a decisive, a nuclear one, to say so, a mechanism for the recognition of Greek citizenship, the potential possibility of listing on the electoral lists relates to an undetermined number of bloods of Greeks and Greeks third, fourth - I do not know - of the fifth generation living in many lengths and backs of the groundland which have none but absolutely nothing to do with Greece. And I mean they have no cultural relationship, they have no real relationship, they have no real connection with the country. They do not know the language, they have never spoken Greek, they have never nursed in schools and many of them have never even visited the country. Potentially, based on the "right of blood", with your bill an unspecified number of potential voters could gain access to the electoral lists, gaining Greek citizenship and then, of course, also the right to vote. And these, Mr. Voridis, do you know who's theoretical? They are the ones that Mr Laskaridis described. In addition to the vulgarity and inappropriateness with which Mr Laskaridis expressed his well-known institution of the Prime Minister in the face of the active Minister, he said something with which he accompanied the documentation of this proverb and obscene - I repeat - of his phrase. He said, "But these shipowners..." - the Greeks, not the ones I said before, in citizenship - "...they don't do any work with Greece, they don't sign contracts with Greece, they don't carry cargo, they don't even have the Greek flag, so they have..." - written I will say, not to say what he said - "...the Greek Prime Minister." So, what did he actually say? Look out! He said exactly that there is a category of Greeks - Greeks now said, and he did not respond, once again - because they have no real connection with their country, what are they doing? As long as they've got χ. the Prime Minister. So - to restore the truth - inaccurately saying - and I closed this parenthesis with Mr Laskaridis - that your bill only concerns those who are registered on the electoral lists. A second argument for restoring the truth to another point. You say many of you came here with the argument, "SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, fears Civic Anti-Civilization, does not want the vote of the Failed". How many did you say? Pleasure. It's inaccurate. Why and how does that prove to be? But the law in force, 2019, provides that possibly hundreds of thousands of Greeks and Greeks living abroad will have the facility to participate in the next national election and their vote will be counted in the final, the overall election result for the result that will be achieved at ground level. This, Mr Vorides, as you know very well - and stop continuing this slander - has been voted on by us too. And he said that - it did not, of course, need, not the last one, the previous one I said, that it is hundreds of thousands of those who potentially will vote in the next election of 2019 - Mr Theodorikos just before this Step. I'm not the only one saying it now. And that's the reality. So a SYRIZA, a Professional Opposition that would not want to count the vote of foreign voters on the overall final result, would not vote for the 2019 law, on the basis of which they will vote - I repeat - potentially hundreds of thousands of Greeks and Greeks living abroad. We said that one category under the age of 30 - it has been mentioned many times and it has been clarified - they will be able to exercise this right without even getting into the other criteria concerning the other categories of Greek abroad. What we are saying again is linked to the previous one. And it is linked to what you want to do, that is, essentially, to open the electoral lists, motivating everyone to allow any child, grandchildren, grandchildren, who have never met the country - because there will be political feasibility and economic feasibility for some - to join the electoral lists and vote without any contact and relationship with the country at all. To conclude, Mr President, I would like to say this: we, Mr Voridis, - on the basis of the completion of this procedure - would say that it is our pleasure to take such initiatives again, to reinstate your own self-government, taking this initiative, in order to give Mr Theodorikos the opportunity - one example - to come here and actually expose you. Is that right? Now, for those we understand, the speech Theodorikos a moment ago was a knife on your legislative initiative, because neither a little nor a little did he tell you that what you are doing is in fact a trick, a communication - excuse me for the term - barber, that this law will ensure that it is implemented and if it is implemented it will enable thousands of Greeks and Greeks abroad to participate in the next national election and that, in any case, a government's responsibility dictates...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u172	Please conclude, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u173	I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. ...to avoid resorting to such kind of parliamentary unions. And also a second reason why we, in fact, would say that we want to bring this amendment back, and yet again, Mr Voridis, is to inspire a very large part of the Greek people what the real data on this public debate is. You know, I was very impressed - and now I am actually closing down, Mr President - how many important journalists realised after yesterday's debate that the Revision of the Constitution, on the basis of which for the first time the welfare has been included in the exercise of the electoral right of Greeks abroad, was not passed by the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, but was voted on the initiative of the New Democracy in 2019. No one knew, Mr. Voridis. In this sense, we thank you very much, because with this legislative initiative you have allowed this to be disclosed together with all other arguments. I agree with the Minutes - in order to avoid any doubt - the practice of Revision of the Constitution for the fact that Article 54, which included, for the first time in the history of the Greek Constitution, these provisions on the restrictions on migrants, was voted by two hundred twelve MPs - finally by all the MPs, I said yesterday that they were three parties, finally voted on this article and the other parties - and there were only eighty-four not, which we SYRIZA Members then gave - Progressive Alliance. Thank you for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too. We are now entering the Webex chat circle. If Mr. Spyros Lappas can't hear us, Mrs. Brysidou will take the floor. Here, Mrs. Brysidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the procedure for participation in... has been regulated by Law 4648/2019. (It was not heard because of bad association) elections, European elections or a referendum of voters registered on the electoral lists of the territory, but on the day of the election are abroad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u176	Mrs. Brysidou, if you can, talk closer to the microphone and louder.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u177	This law, however, required a number of conditions and obligations for the submission of documents which were particularly complex, thus depriving the majority of the voters of the opportunity to exercise that right. Ladies and gentlemen, all the governments of post-multipleism, understanding the need to strengthen the Hellenism of the Dispersion... (It was not heard because of a bad connection) home, it was intended to allow the Greeks to exercise their electoral rights. In Article 51 of the 1975 Constitution, there was clear provision for the regulation of these matters by law. The current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis in 2019 laid the foundations for facilitating the right of Greeks to vote abroad from the country in which they are located. Law 4648/2019 was an important first step, but... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.) The Greek-Christian language expressed...... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.) The whole political world has understood the need for corrective action. This was also publicly stated by representatives of counterpopulation. The government, with fast reflexes, brought the laws to the vote that remove the restrictions and lead to the goal hopeful and anticipated by the Greeks of the Diaspora. The New Democracy, stable in its initial positions, from which it retreated in 2019 to the need to secure the parliamentary majority on the basis of the Constitution, is coming back, now aiming at the right and necessary historically correct. And it's historically right, because the Greeks of the Diaspora never ceased to care about their homeland, nostalgic, and visit her. No one should block this bond and separate the Greeks by limiting their rights. If we oblige someone to travel from Australia to come to vote in Greece, it's like taking his right to vote, because that's... (It wasn't heard because of a bad connection)... because of time, distance, obligations and financial capacity. But it is just as dysfunctional as so many bureaucratic charges, which sometimes lead to unfair divisions. It is therefore proposed to repeal paragraphs 2, 6, 7 and 10 of Article 2 of Law No4648/2019 and paragraph 5 of Article 4 of that Law. It is necessary, because today, the anniversary of the two hundred years of independence and the revolution of Genus' freedom, we must prove that we understand that the nation must... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.) Ladies and gentlemen... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection.)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u178	Mrs. Brysidou, if you can do a little louder and close to the microphone to sound clearer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u179	Yes, Mr. President. ...of the whole number of Members, I invite you to ensure the historical union of the Greeks who live in all the countries of the earth, because this law will give a dynamic and another perspective for our Greece and for the unscrupulous Greeks, who are our voices around the world, defenders of our truth and our country's rights, the voice of our history and our culture, the bridge for the development and return of many of our compatriots, who will participate and contribute in the formation of their country's conditions of life and opportunities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. If Mr Lappas is here to tell us, or we will go to Mr Anastasiades. Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a subject which is well-known and much-discussed, an issue which is a timeless and almost universal request from the Greeks abroad and which has been analysed by all its aspects. There are no signs that need to be further clarified except in the fear of SYRIZA, which continues to insist and stumble. So it excludes a large percentage from the Greeks abroad, who have a right to exercise it from their homes and do not have to go to the trouble of traveling to Greece, those who want, on the day of the election to exercise their right to the place where they are registered on the electoral lists. If we look back on the past, we will see that the New Democracy has taken legislative initiatives to enable the Greeks abroad, who have the right to vote, to exercise this right from their homes. This was in 2007 with the government of Kostas Karamanlis, but the bill did not receive the required majority at the time, became in 2014 with the Samara government and in 2016 New Democracy, as opposition now, submitted such a bill, but then the SYRIZA government never brought it up for discussion and in 2019 as a government brought a bill that was passed by a large majority. In order to vote for the SYRIZA, KKE and Mer25 have laid down conditions and restrictions that exclude a large part of the voters from the possibility of exercising their right from home. The New Democracy was forced to accept the restrictions, to compromise in order to secure the required majority and thus to take the first step, which was ultimately not complete. It will be wondered why I am saying all this, since it is a milestone and a well-known one. I am saying this because, in the debate before us, both in the committees and yesterday in plenary, the SYRIZA is making an effort to distort the Government's initiative, to justify or analyse this initiative, an initiative that is clear. What are we asking? Removal of restrictions on the exercise of the right of non-Greek voters. It's very simple. They described it as "communication movement", "critical" because we supposedly do not want to make it easier for the Greeks abroad, but to mock them, a "feelability move", "vote" and so on. So if it is all that SYRIZA believes, then let us come to the vote on the bill, to expose us. Why does he insist on the restrictions and why does he insist on carrying the burden of responsibility towards our homosexual compatriots, who as a whole want to abolish restrictions? When Mrs. Jackson's interview was known in a newspaper abroad, I thought that SYRIZA indirectly asked the government to bring the matter to a discussion to get rid of this burden. It seems that I was wrong, because it continues to insist without taking into account the desire of the Greeks abroad, and I wonder what he will tell them if he does not vote today. It appears that SYRIZA wanted to mislead them, but it seems to say abroad and other things to do internally. The conclusion from SYRIZA's debate and refusal to support the lifting of restrictions is that it does not want Greeks to participate abroad in the national elections. The reason they know him, we can imagine him. But a great opportunity has been given by the government, a second opportunity, to get rid of this burden. They didn't value her. They're responsible. All the others that he puts forward proposals or concerns are pretextary and paradoxical, which is why they do not convince anyone and expose him to SYRIZA, who insists on maintaining anti-democratic restrictions. If that is not the case, it is an opportunity today to vote on the bill to remove restrictions and to prove otherwise. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u182	Thank you too, Mr Anastasiades. Mr Ioannis Amanatidis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u183	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister - the distance does not give us a good picture, since we cannot see who the Minister is - all the arguments I see have been heard in the thorough debate. So my position will be limited to the issues that I consider critical and important, as will those which may not have been heard. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by addressing and knowing that this speech will really be historic - and the speeches are historic - I would like to address this issue as follows. I think it is a very serious issue that needs cross-party consultation and is undermining its importance when treated by the government in such a way as to be communication. Mr Anastasiades said the absolute truth in my view. Why is it now brought by the government? To let off her weight, to show that it's not her fault, it's the others' fault. That's the reality. It is torpedoes in this way - not to say that it is definite - the parliamentary procedure, in which with trouble and with many compromises and consents it has managed to reach the country's political system in a law and in a constitutional revision. And because the issues are political, as Mr Vorides said, and not emotionally, I would like a political answer: What has changed since 2019, which has been voted by a large majority - two hundred ninety Members, if I am not mistaken - the bill brought by Mr Theodorikos politically so that the government can come for a law that it did not try to implement, did not bring us the results, to propose changes? If you listened to the Members' speeches and were able to compare them, Mr President, 2019 with the speeches now, it is the intersection of how white is made black. So, did the law apply? Oh, no. I want to ask some questions. In 2019, were the positions of the homogenous organisations not the same? Something changed? So, then you had other recruits from the Homos? I would also like to stress the hypocritical attitude of the New Democracy. Two issues. There is no question of the right or of the right to vote by Greek residents abroad, which, because of the law of blood, have the right to be registered on the electoral lists. We're not voting for this. We're talking about facilitation. So the right is not called into question. The Act of 2019 itself gives the right - and you are wrong to say that it is forbidden and will not be able to vote in the place of residence - to vote at the place of residence. Enforce this law. But, in essence, what is there, Mr President? There are two different concepts. And I'm looking into the eyes right now, the relatives. One concept is what SYRIZA says, with the single ballot, which will not be counted - I have no reason to hide it or anyone has it from SYRIZA - in the overall result. However, it enables all of the relatives, who have the family of blood to any generation - what Mr Ragus mentioned earlier - to vote and have their representatives. We don't want to break up with the expatriates. We want to unite them. The New Democracy wants to play micropolitical games. We want everyone to express themselves. Because I have heard a lot about the nation, the people and the state, and now we are not taking political education lessons, schematically and very simply - and perhaps I am mistaken about this, and I am on the occasion of criticism - that is, you want the nation to vote for a government that exercises its power in the state in which the people live. Because we don't talk about both restrictions. The two restrictions that go under the law - we did not want them to be, we wanted all the expatriates to vote, but their own representatives - are to be two years over the last thirty-five years. Excuse me, the two years in thirty-five years are about 5%. If it is someone who has a blood bond and has not come in the last thirty-five years, or 5% of these years in Greece, I beg your pardon, what links are we talking about? The second point I would like to make is that I am sad, because I have actually heard places for union between the two Greeces by voting. So, love for homeland depends on the vote of the homosexuals? I think you underestimate them with this thing. The introduction of this event underestimates the homosexuals themselves. The ties that Greeks have in the world, which are the ambassadors of Greece, are not just blood bonds. They are links of language, religion, culture, perception that is maintained. What did you do to keep her? How did you strengthen Greek-language education? How did you strengthen consulates? How did you strengthen the General Secretariat of Hellenism, which you have degraded? There are real policies. And finally, because you're cut. SYRIZA ruled four and a half years. You have had the opportunity, for so many years you have been ruling, with a hundred and fifty MPs bringing in a bill and to solve all that I now hear in places. Why didn't you? We have to understand this and I close with that, Mr President. The question of the Greek Diaspora - and this is the greatest evil Mr.Voridis has done - has been torpedoing a possibility that political parties have understood to be able to show a cross-party consensus and unite the Hellenism of the Diaspora for the benefit of both ourselves and our country. That thing was torpedoed by Mr. Voridis. At the moment I think that the law needs to be implemented. It is up to the government, by our consensus, to implement the Council from the Presidential Hellenism. In all these efforts, there is a need for cross-party consensus. If we return to the reds, the blues, the pinks, the blacks, etc., then no one is serving what our country currently needs, the unity based on the problems. That is my position, Mr President. And maybe I'm inconsistent. The last one is this. It bothers me very much when they speak specifically from the New Democracy about the parity of voting. Is there an equivalency of the Greeks' vote in the interior? The majority voting systems, which you have developed for so many years, allowed the vote to be equal? Aren't you just analog fighters? Here you have no equivalent among the Greek residents of the interior. It's all hypocritical. And the other thing I want to say is which Greek MP can look into the eyes of Greeks who live and have policies inside and tell them that someone who has nothing to do with the blood bond will come to determine what will do in his life? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Amanatidis. Mr. Jason Fotillas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by congratulating Mr Voridis on the top nationally important bill that comes to correct past injustices in relation to rights that are the cornerstone of the democratic culture, such as the right to vote and to stand as a candidate. The draft law before us represents a historic opportunity to strengthen our national bond throughout the globe and, at the same time, a flagrant legislative initiative for reunification of the Greeks. This bill is addressed to the Greeks and to all Greeks of the diaspora, most of whom were forced to leave our country for biopolitic reasons both before and during the economic crisis. It concerns all Greeks who, although they may not have an economic or social relationship with their homeland, have the most powerful and unselfish bond of love with Greece, the country they always nostalgic, because their desire and pain for returning Greeks abroad are known to us, since these people, though living and working abroad, always beats their hearts for their homeland. Because they may not meet the criterion of continuous residence in the country. It is, however, those who care for their children to learn the Greek language, to be indignant in the Greek culture and traditions of our country, those who maintain Greek customs and customs outside the territory, and to ensure that they are translated into the next generations of Greeks. They are all those who have always helped and contributed to their emblems in Greece. And they all have one in common, they vote in the interests of the country and perhaps some of them in the hope of returning to it in the future. Therefore, against all of them, we have a duty and duty to strengthen their participation in the political process, to ensure and, above all, to facilitate the exercise of their right to vote. For this reason, we have today to vote in favour of this bill and pay homage to the need and desire of the demigrant voters for free, unrestricted and unrestricted exercise of their voting rights. Law 4648/2019 provides for and makes up the voting rights of non-national Greeks on non-formal conditions. We talked about it, it was a first step, it was not what we wanted, it places excessive constraints, so most voters are discouraged from voting. The provision of law that we are trying to amend through the lifting of unfair restrictions reflects Greek bureaucracy and off-territoriality. This is because the Greek citizen is called upon to prove through a series of bureaucratic procedures that he is Greek. To put it simply, the law makes election right, a right under a cult, a right with an impediment. Is that unfair? Clearly, it is enough to think - and I will say this once again - that the voter himself, if he has the financial capacity or the time to go to Greece on election day, would simply vote by showing his police identity. So this leads to the creation of two-speed voters, with those who cannot travel to vote in Greece feeling second-class voters. Greeks within or outside the territory must exercise the right to vote, with their own status as a Greek citizen and only the sole condition of his previous entry in the special electoral lists abroad, without stumbling, without disproportionate limitations and "cutters" and that is precisely what the draft law provides for. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis simplifies, facilitates, encourages and supports the vote of the relatives. On the basis of equality and equality of vote, it removes the limitations which make the right to vote difficult and short-lived. Mrs. Jackie was unfair yesterday, not so bad, tomorrow who knows? After all, both SYRIZA and his executives have become accustomed to such "cocks" and refluxes. However, your self-destructive study, Mrs.Jakris, for the abolition of the restrictions on the voting of the relatives, is the one that also exposes your resignation, as Greek foreign voters will see and see who is now clearly responsible for their offending, because SYRIZA fears - and that is one truth, it has been said again, I say again - the migrants. And yet, he fears the vote of this Greek and Greek woman who do not expect in a customer relationship or in a party rushphetti. Why is she afraid of them? For his own reasons. Perhaps, because the Greek who lives and works in Canada, London or Berlin knows there would not support a serial killer and terrorist or perhaps because SYRIZA does not want voters who have experience of an American university, but voters who welcome the occupation of universities and legalise any act of immunity in the name of university asylum. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote on the motions for resolutions should not be divided. It's unfair for my compatriots to be Greek and in Greece to be foreign. So let us take this historic step in the right direction today, the real deepening of the centre's links with the homogeneity. It is time to make it easier for Greeks abroad to exercise their electoral right from their place, without conditions and conditions. It is time to listen to them, to implement their vindication of their desire to vote freely, unreservedly and equally with all other Greeks. The vote of the results should be the most consensual and supra-party bill, with the ultimate aim of national unity and unity. The draft law of the Ministry of Interior is a stand of responsibility towards the non-Greek voters and the achievement of the broad consensus is a major step towards upgrading our political culture. Greeks who are outside the territory deserve to vote, without any restrictions, to have a say in the formation of the election result and in what they will live if they return. It is our obligation and indiscriminate constitutional right. We owe them that! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u186	Thank you too, Mr. Lightla. Mrs Chabika Iatridis has the floor now. Here, Mrs. Iatridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u187	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in December 2019 with No468/2019 we had made a broad consensus on the necessary arrangements for the vote of the deceased Greeks. It was an important and essential step, it was a special day for all the emigrant Greeks, for all the emigrant Greeks. As a Dodecanese Member I had spoken in plenary in December about this bill, a bill that was also one of the New Democracy's main election commitments. I would like to stress here that for us islanders, the vote of the offenders is very important. And it's important, because, as you know, the Dodecanese are scattered across all continents of this planet. They are the Greeks and Greek women who live and live abroad in many areas. I would like to make a reference here, Mr President, to the Federation of America and Canada and to all the organisations of our islands, Patmos, Leros, Symi, Nisyros, Rhodes, North America, the Dodecanese communities in Australia, Europe and Africa. To the Calimnius who have been in Florida, the United States of America, and indeed, has been elected for the second time, and the Mayor of Tarpon Springs, Mr. Chris Alahuzos, has been elected for the last time. Allow me another historic reference to the Dodecanese youth of America, which had a decisive role in informing the American Delegation in the negotiations in July 1946 in Paris for the concession of the Dodecanese in Greece. I mention these in order to highlight and stress that with the remote Greeks our bonds are blood bonds, they are family bonds, they are national bonds and it is our duty to do everything possible to form a living part of Hellenism. Ladies and gentlemen, because SYRIZA continues to eat and contradict, but it must tell the migrants abroad and others say here inside, I would just like to point out this. And in the debate of the bill in December 2019, the New Democracy and Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis spoke of an important step, an important step, which, of course, required the composition of opinions and some compromises to achieve the broad majority. But, ever since then, the New Democracy's position has been that the bill could have been much more bold and made it easier for the migrant Greeks to exercise their right to vote without preconditions. In order to do this and in order to do this, it is necessary to remove the restrictions set out in Law 4648/2019. The Government of New Democracy comes with Minister Vorides, who is honest and unequivocally doing so by amending Articles 2 and 4 of this law. And it must also be politically clear. It is clear and clear to us in the past. No limitations and an equitable assessment of the vote on the overall election result. This is the act of the essence, that is the act of democracy. Because the Greek President-in-Office who wants to vote must be given the opportunity to do so. After all, we have also heard this clearly at the meetings of the Committee on Civil Liberties and Internal Affairs by our relatives who want the restrictions to be lifted and, in general, the greatest possible facility for their vote. Because those who decide to vote are given interest in our country, want their voice to be heard, and they very clearly want to express their opinion on which of the political groups they want to take our country forward. This is the clear position, without hypocrisy, with respect for democracy and an electoral system whose main role is to ensure representation, but also to elect the government, so a party is chosen. I am sorry to say this, but it is clear that for SYRIZA the vote on the payroll will raise a question. Clearly, the SYRIZA doesn't want the vote on the results. Perhaps because they know or believe that the Greeks, politically and ideologically, are not close to SYRIZA's views on a number of issues. And that's what's really concerned with his MPs. On the contrary, at the time we are in, our great, liberal democratic party considers the vote of the deceased Greeks to be important and even to measure the election result. That is the essence, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Good rhetoric shapes, good verbal acrobatics you do to justify your position, but things are very simple. Whether you want the people to vote or you do not want the people to vote. The current improvements to the articles of Law 4648/2019 are another important opportunity. Both Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and Minister Makis Voridis in the committee have called on you to decide honestly on the substance of the vote and from there, technical details can be agreed. I believe that we owe the migrant Greeks the opportunity to vote. Their love for Greece, for homeland, is for granted. Their dynamics are important especially in a context of international relations that each group of power of Hellenism is necessary. I believe that especially the Civic Opposition has an important opportunity to prove that it is close to the emigrants, it is close to the Hellenism of the Diaspora and to support this proposed changes as well. This is an opportunity for us all to show our cohesion, national unity and determination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u188	Thank you very much, Mrs. Iatridis. Now Mr. Liutas Athanasios has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 2019 the New Democracy Government on its initiative proceeded and acted on a request that had been pending for many decades. We proceeded with the legislative process and settled the procedure for participation in the elections of the Greeks of the Diaspora that are registered on the electoral lists of the territory, but on the day of the election they are abroad. Our proclaimed goal was to facilitate the vote of Greeks abroad. Today, then, we are taking a step further and removing the bureaucratic obstacles and impurities that have discouraged and removed our compatriots who live abroad from the electoral process. The process is now becoming very simple. The removal of the obstacles we are discussing today in this bill demonstrates the maximum extent to which we respond as government to a just and deeply democratic demand from our Dispersion. Both the continued support of the Greeks inside and the continued support of the Greeks abroad, wherever they live, is a major national debt. On this basis we are moving and we are legislating on this basis. The unity of all Greeks is a vehicle to strengthen the nation. Bridges with the country must be solid and strong and no bureaucratic barrier to standing against our strong links and to the detriment of the constant need to strengthen them. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is a country with a great dispersion. An important part of it, an important part of our nation is out of borders. We all know that there have been moments in our history that our Greek compatriots cannot live and live in the country, they have taken the difficult decision of seeking a new life, of better life abroad. I personally come from a place, from Trikalon Prefecture, where we are very well aware of these moments, moments that as experiences are accounted for to us by those who were forced to leave, from acquaintances known, friends and relatives, moments described at the difficult time when our compatriots were separated from their family, to seek a better life abroad, but also to help the family who was staying behind. In my place, here in Trikala, throughout the communities and villages of our beautiful countryside, immigration was a historic ticket to a better and more comfortable life. I know the deep love of the Greeks of the Diaspora for our country and our country as a whole. I know their concern and misery for a better homeland. I am very well aware of their great offer to the place and to their families. I know that they are people of predicament, of work, who always have the homeland of all of us very high and always in their hearts. They were the ones who, by taking the difficult and painful decision to leave home, actually saved their family, supporting it in very difficult years. How many Greeks along with their parents have not been found all these years abroad, experiencing the difficult conditions of immigration and have they finally succeeded? Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of New Democracy, looking into the Greeks of the Dispersion, and knowing their deep need to participate in things in our country, is not to be dispersed and institutionally excluded from it, proceeded and moves towards facilitating those voting process. They will no longer be forced to travel home to exercise their electoral right, a journey which many times translated into a great exit. The country now meets them in the foreign country, in the country where they live and work. Through the changes introduced, the process will be simple, which is translates into the need for no obstacles and delays on the road of the Greeks abroad registered on the electoral lists towards the polls. We want and we succeed in making the process easy, accessible and not discouraged. This is a moment, ladies and gentlemen, which is deeply political and at the same time deeply patriotistic. With this bill, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis continues to fire and build bridges, which strengthen Greece's inextricable relations with the Greeks abroad. The democratic Hellenism sees with relief its time-consuming request to be implemented decisively by the Government of New Democracy and by our own Prime Minister. In the hearing of the representatives of the family, in the debate in the committee responsible for this bill, we have all heard the great need for the Greeks to participate and participate easily in the electoral processes of our country. The homeland, through the bill of what we are discussing, proves that it is practically next to them. He listens to them and respects them. The vote of the Greeks, the vote of the deceased Greeks from their homes has been called for decades, so that the Greeks of foreigners will also become active citizens and give the "residents" to the electoral process of our country, which is also the quintousity of democracy. With our decisions, the Greeks of Diaspora are now allowed to express their political interest in our country, for their own country, the political interest in Greece, which each Greek of which is, wherever they live, wherever they live, as far as they are from the mother country. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, I would like to stress that this year, when we are completing the Greek Revolution, today that we seem to be dating through our vaccination and discipline measures in the protection measures of the pandemic, today that with courage, determination and strategy we are driving Greece and the Greeks in the era of production, work and prosperity, our main objective must be the unity of the nation. Our goals are the self-consciousness and enthusiasm of all Greeks in the great struggle for a better life for all. And a prerequisite for this, for the country's progress, is the unity of the nation. We all want to contribute to this, and we all have to contribute. Our homeland is a home of all Greeks. The Greeks on the inside, all of us, and the Greeks on the Greek side, are one and we will continue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u190	Thank you. Mr Yiannis Callianos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u191	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the lifting of the restrictions on the vote on the results that are being held here in the Greek Parliament, in other words the leading democratic institution, through which the nation, namely the people, is represented, is a debate which unfolds in a way that reveals how each party understands the concept of the nation, the people and the whole of Hellenism. For us in the New Democracy it is quite clear from our founding declaration that nation and people are almost identical, while at the same time giving Hellenism the element of ecumenism that is also time-consuming it. On the other hand, I think it is absolutely clear and distinct which political forces and groups see the people as something completely foreign and cut off from the nation and want the Hellenism contained and suffocatingly limited, deviating its universal character and its print. In fact, some of the arguments that have been made in this Chamber and also during the drafting of the bill in committee are essentially splitting and I think a little disgraceful about the Greeks of the Diaspora, whom we very often call on them to be with us and to support us, to support the mother country and have proved it in practice all these years. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I have the impression that you are trying to put yourself on such a crucial issue with arguments that take us back, far behind, in fact a hundred and seventy years back, about the 1844 National Assembly and the division between indigenouss and heterogenes. We must not honour you to treat the deportees as 'young people'. Googlare at once, get on the Internet to understand who these SYRIZA colleagues were. So they called the heterogenesis despair at that time, depriving them of the right to participate actively in shaping the future of the country. This is not the way you honor the history or the political path of the space you represent. I would remind you that in 1975 in the Revision House, when for the first time the question of the vote of Greeks abroad was raised on the initiative of the New Democracy party, the Left Party parties had a much more positive approach to the issue. What has changed since then, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA? I think you should answer that, not to us, but to your voters and to the migrant Greeks. I have the feeling, however, that you are trying to justify your current position by disorientating the debate on all they can do is deceive the Greeks abroad, on a subject which you yourself have reopened in the public debate. It has been heard many times, and I will say it, and I will be allowed to speak. I am not used to expressing myself like this, but it is a bit politically inappropriate or touching the limits of the ridiculousness of Mrs Jack, who is not an accidental SYRIZA parliamentarian, who, incidentally, is your responsible department, rather than a mere executive, who then opened the debate, saying in an interview with "National Karykas" that the restrictions on the vote of the deceased are unfair and disgraceful, while in favour of saying that if SYRIZA returns to governance, it will abolish them. And now you are going out - I say that it is politically inappropriate or touching the limits of ridiculousness, of political ridicule - ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, and you say that in the end you cannot vote in favour of the New Democracy's proposal, because 'yes, but' and you are trying to put some other restrictions and others. At least as a young man, that makes me sad to see it in this House. So why are you leaving the government now? We have made it clear from the outset that we are against restrictions. The restrictions that entered were part of the compromise rather than our own position. So since you are now saying that you do not want restrictions, you have nothing but to vote in favour of their lifting. This would be an honest political position by you if you thought that you were in practice standing next to the Greeks abroad. What you are not saying directly, however, is that you do not want the vote of the deceased Greeks on the electoral lists to be counted against the final result. What you are talking about here is that you do not wish to participate in shaping the election result. What you are asking for is the two-speed vote and two-class citizens. How racist can that be when you say you are against racism? Absolutely racist for the Greek citizens themselves, for the citizens themselves who left for abroad. We are not going to follow you on this, of course. The JRC also fully disagrees with its proposal, but its positions are perfectly understandable. It needs limitations, which we naturally disagree with, but does not raise a question of not counting on the final result. You, colleagues of the SYRIZA, hide behind your finger, saying that you do not want restrictions, and at the same time you ask that they do not have an equal vote. There are many contradictions, however. We have heard some SYRIZA Members say that the New Democracy is trying to alter the outcome of the elections in its favour with this legislation. Use the word ‘change’. On the other hand, you say that we are struggling the migrants and will punish us for this attitude, by voting SYRIZA, you say. Eventually, what is it? You have to decide. But are you saying that the election result will be altered because Greeks from abroad will vote? But is it possible to hear such extremes and racists? Will the Greeks themselves change Greece? If ever possible, please too! Seriously, but now, even more seriously, what is definitely true and you can't hide it is the fear that you show to the Greeks abroad. You're afraid you can't talk to people who know how the rest of the world works. You are blocking the embrace of Greek women and Greeks who have left abroad, while setting class criteria for the prosperous, effectively denying them the right to vote from their place of residence. More than that, you show fear of the universal dimension of Hellenism itself, and that is extremely sad. We will not consent to your reduced version of Greece. The vote on this bill is a vote on universal Hellenism. That is why I am extremely proud to be voting in favour of it. Mr Vorides, dear colleague, dear Minister, congratulations on your work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr. Calliano. The last speaker is Mr Manos Konsolas. Here, Mr. Consola, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, because once again, very topical to the needs of the time, it is tabling a bill that we expect the National Representation to support something that some of its members have expressed in public. And I would like to wish Mr Vlasis a good power, because if this effort is successful, we still have a long way to go on with the excellent work of the migrants who are Greece itself, a very great part of Hellenism, with whom I think we can join forces for the benefit of the nation and the country. The denial of the right, Mr President, to vote in the demigrant Greeks is a denial of the universal nature of Hellenism. The universality of Hellenism is much more important as a size, meaning and meaning than the horrific partners that some develop against the idea of the right to vote by the Greeks. Our country until two years ago was one of the last to deny Greeks the right to exercise the electoral right. The government has shaped a framework of convergence, made concessions to establish, even slowly, even with restrictions, this self-evident right for the citizens of the world. Thus, the resolution of the relevant law linking the exercise of the right to vote for Greeks abroad also emerged on conditions. In particular, the voter should have a proven presence in Greece for two years over the last thirty-five years and submit a tax declaration to the Greek authorities. These restrictions were set as a condition on the part, of course, of the SYRIZA Officer, in order to vote for the bill, because otherwise they would not have the right to vote, even those Greeks abroad who meet these criteria. I would like to pass on my experience, Mr President, from my participation in the Committee on the Election of Hellenism, there are testimonies and colleagues from all the wings of this Parliament and also from our fellow citizens, from our patriots in Greece and abroad to this need. Now, then, it's an opportunity and it's an opportunity, because even the voices of counterpopulation are in this direction and on this side. Allow me to abuse the opportunity given by today's debate and again mention the position of the former Minister and my colleague Mrs Jakri, even as SYRIZA Head of State, when, at the beginning of April, she voted in favour of the vote on no conditions and restrictions in an interview with the Greek newspaper 'NATIONAL KERYKA'. It is a report which gives the floor and colleagues from Opposition to override the watertight and move forward. In fact, this complete overthrow of SYRIZA's position is an indication of what really happens to Greek society. Once again, however, the inconsistencies and the identity crisis that characterizes SYRIZA were confirmed, that is, two years ago it voted for it, and now it seems that some have not listened to this need. Obviously, in the climate of Officerial Opposition, as shown by their subsequent attitude, they did not mean it. They did not expect the direct legislative initiative of the government which, of course, does not aim to expose them politically and make them inconsistent? The aim was to reach a broad political consensus - the Minister said so, our rapporteur, said so - and the parliamentary representative said so that the bill could be voted for by two-thirds of the Members in order to guarantee the electoral rights of the Greeks abroad without conditions and conditions. In fact, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Vorides, during the debate on the bill in committee, proceeded with another move of understanding, and his intention and will to discuss without pretexts and without appropriateness. SYRIZA therefore put forward the proposal to create constituencies representing areas of the homogeneity and to which they can also be elected national MPs. The Minister for the Interior once again confirmed the Government's intention to reach the highest possible consensus and consensus. He told the committee that he was prepared to go ahead with the adoption of this proposal and that there should be cooperation and consultation on the implementation of this proposal. It has been agreed to codecision on the boundaries of the constituencies, but also on the number of members of parliament elected in them. It has laid down a single condition based on the principle of democracy, the principle of equality of vote. Who was that? To count on the election result, the vote of the homosexuals, that is, the self-evident thing that the whole world, all the citizens of the world, adopt as a practice and there is also a reflection of the outcome. Unfortunately, SYRIZA refuses to apply equality of vote. Do you realise, Mr President, that Greek homosexuals seem to be claiming to be citizens who do not have the same features as voters, have reduced power and characteristics? We cannot let that be understood today in this House! At the moment, three parties of the Greek Parliament have taken a clear and crystal clear position and are in favour of the right to vote on Greeks abroad. The position of the New Democracy is stable and stable. So too, the Prime Minister and the government as a whole. Right of entry in the special electoral lists abroad must have those who are registered on the electoral lists, without any other restriction. There is already a strong parliamentary majority of ninety Members from three parties who voted in favour of the draft law. The other parties are also responsible for extending this majority. We are co-responsible for all and are also co-responsible for other colleagues in the other parties who have so far not clarified their position. Through the positions of the representatives of the JRC and Mera25, I can see that there is room for this majority to be extended. It is demonstrated by the willingness of the Minister for the Interior to reach agreement in practice. Allow me to support what we are discussing, to mention the example of Italy, where Italians who are permanently living abroad or who are outside Italy for health or work or studies, have the right to vote and are represented by a fixed number of seats. In particular, the Italians elect twelve MPs in a total of six hundred thirty and six senators in a total of thirty - twenty - one. So the insistence of SYRIZA on demanding that these people do not count on the election result is a violation of the principle of equality of vote, and at the moment we are all accountable to the Greeks of the Diaspora and we will be judged by our attitude. The state must shape the conditions, bring together all the forces of Hellenism to give all Greeks the right to vote, in democratic terms and rules, in terms of equitableness of voting, which is very important for my country, the Dodecanese, which in the world is everywhere Dodecanese. Again, I welcome and congratulate the Minister for the Interior and continue with the same strong will to move on with this very important reform. I also wish the Minister with responsibility for Greeks to continue this course. Mr President, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr. Consola. The speaker circle was completed at this point. Is there any of the rapporteurs who want to take the floor for the rest of the year, summed up in the speeches you have made, to finish as soon as we can?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u196	I'll give the floor to everyone for three minutes. Here, Mrs Bakadima, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u197	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Mera25 has had, and will have a clear position on this issue from the outset. All Greeks should vote from their home place, they should vote for it because it makes no sense to discuss the vote on income if we continue to regard them as citizens of the second category, but elections should be created abroad. We have already developed our position and I will not repeat it. I will close - I will not even use all the time - by saying that today could really be an excellent opportunity to show Greeks and abroad that on such an important issue we can go a step further, give the migrants the right to vote, but also to vote. In fact, I would expect, you know, Minister, today you say that you are stopping the debate. And I'd expect it for a simple reason. First of all, it is your standing position - that is what you say you are interested in - and you say that you want to vote by the Democrats. I would, however, expect you to do so for another reason, so that now, if we were to say that we are starting the debate on the electoral regions abroad, that we can see which of the representatives of the Greeks really want to have the right to vote, who want the debate on the electoral regions abroad - Mer25 wants the elections abroad, as it is the only way that the Greeks have the right to vote and to vote - or who is trying to hide behind his finger. He is no different from the SYRIZA who seems to want the debate, but everything shows from his attitude so far that he is really afraid of her. So, as we have said from the outset, given that your bill only includes the first part of our proposal, we cannot give you a white cheque, so we will stick to our initial attitude to vote against the bill. I hope that even now in your speech you can stop it and we can really start a debate. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mrs. Bakadima. Mr. Konstantinos Hetas, special speaker from the Greek Solution, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. I think we've been through everything. It is very difficult for me to understand and I have not yet understood why some people are voting against. I understand why the JRC is voting against. I really do. I also participated as a speaker in the Revision of the Constitution. I get it. Now I don't understand why Mera25 won't vote. I really don't understand. I don't understand. Also, I don't understand why SYRIZA doesn't vote. But what I understand, Minister, to close this marathon meeting yesterday and today is the following and we will say some truths. Truly the first: we discussed a bill of Greek Solution for two days in plenary and the previous days in committees. Clearly! Our position was crystal clear. I think that as many political differences as we have between the parties, you will have to give credit to us. We've been clear and talked about it since December 2019, even now that we're here. All Greeks have the right to vote. It's over! Not all Greeks have the right to vote and we start 'But...', this one, the other and finally the fairy tale and politics. Clear things! We said so, we supported it, we tried to give you a mind then, but we didn't make it. We have shown consensus and voted in favour of that bill and, of course, with all our hearts, we are also voting for this to support our Greek counterparts at all the lengths and backs of the planet. We were absolute. We were clear. It is also clear, Minister, that it has proved to us that our values, our principles, our beliefs are abundant! It's bettoned. It's no butt card, today blowing northerly, I'm going from there, tomorrow it's south, I'm going from there, the conditions are imposing and looking at something else, I'm going to do something else. We're clear. Second truth. You reasonably enjoyed seeing SYRIZA in the backyard for so many days down and you smoke your cigar and enjoy it. You probably enjoyed it. It's a truth. To tell you truths. You had them down and you hit them, politically, I always mean. It's a truth. What can I say? Say it's not? It was a political debacle of SYRIZA, because no one has yet understood what you're after. What are you after? What do you want? What's the target? Let's focus a little, what's the target? You don't have a clear view of it and the empty benches, Mr. Katrugale. You know how I respect you and appreciate you as a political opponent, but I would expect here there to be air defense, push and hold defense, not be alone. Where are the partners, where are the MPs, where are they all? Where is he? Nobody. Three of the JRC, one of you. Third truth, why are you laughing, Mr. Voridis? The truth is, you're specializing in stirring and fucking. This is your privilege, your Government and the New Democracy, the constant folding. I will not open the box again now to say your achievements, 'No Prespes', 'no cannabis'. We've all said that. They're gone, we're tired of the pan-Hellenic. But now to the emigrants, new ass. We were shouting and saying, "Hey, we can't, put some restrictions, some brakes, some limits," we can't. Now you're using them clearly for the pins. In any case, you have admitted that you are doing so. 'Even so we do it', you say, 'we do this now'. Yes, sir. At least it is honorable that you are using them for the pins. And I close with a fourth truth, Mr President, because he is also the Minister responsible and has been discussed today. Your choices - it is not about the faces that I say, I say again, and I believe that my Greeks may not be very well, but they are simple and understandable - smell political mamarila. And I'm going to S.H.I.E.L.D. What lisverish is what you opened with PASOK all of a sudden, what love, what love, what a journey in the past! You got into the time machine and suddenly discovered people! Be careful, exceptionally, may be too good, but is it not up to the New Democracy not to be worthy and capable, your big party to make two choices from the six of the ADP? Two, boy! Go on, the Greek Solution is a small party yet, in time. Take one from SYRIZA, take one of the KKE, all these years of party with offer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u200	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u201	I'm done. So, Mr Vorides, you see that you have changed, you have mutated. You're not a virus. You're the New Democracy mutation. Now you're making buttons with KINAL, keep it alive. People see them and judge them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, too. Mr. Giokas Ioannis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u203	I think it has been confirmed that these days the debate has been provoked by the government and now some time ago in the committees for voter reasons, for reasons of communication and to set up a two-party fight, a controversy on the backs of the payroll. Why has the basic question changed since December 2019 when the well-known law on the vote of revenues was passed by a large majority, the law which you are denounced today? One thing has changed. The parliamentary connection from the point of view has not changed. Something else didn't change. One thing has changed. They were the statements made by Ms. Jack to New York's "NATIONAL KINGDOM", which attacked the logic of the criteria she and her party voted on. And you took it from Mrs. Jackris to set up this two-party fight on the back of the emigrants. And who did you come here to play with offender friends? You parties who, as governments, are responsible for the problems of these people from their education, which you have reduced the funds to 80% to other issues and of course you are responsible for the major migration itself. You have persecuted you, your policies and your system, these people from the country. How else has the communication character of this debate been confirmed? From the systematic and unambiguous distortion primarily carried out by the Members of the New Democracy - not all - in relation to the existing law which they themselves voted on. If you listened to Members of the New Democracy these two days to analyse the law that they voted on, you would say that either they are completely irrelevant, they have no smell - to use a word - from the law or they are conscious liars with what we have heard two days, not all of them, I repeat: From you are removing the right to vote in electoral rolls and to the right to vote, up to those who have left the country in recent years, they have no access, when the law with its predictions, especially for those under thirty, does not impose particular criteria for participation in the electoral lists abroad. Of course, this disorientation took place and the SYRIZA MPs who were begging behind Mrs Jack and the SYRIZA's initial position, which, of course, Mrs Jacquez took to the United States today, were a little bit of averted, because if you listened yesterday to Mr Ragosi and listened to Mr Ragosi, the Parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, they were two different positions. Yesterday's position was to defend the original position of SYRIZA on a single ballot and when they saw that this position because it is perforated gives many arguments to the opposing side were turned today and joined the position - which the Greek people understand - the criteria that must exist to exercise the electoral right from the place of residence. They were two different positions of Mr Ragosi yesterday with today, who saw them. We are now going - and I am ending - to the basic argument of the Members of the New Democracy and the Government. They are shaped - it says - by the existence of two speed criteria and two categories of citizens. The exact opposite happens. In your proposal, two speeds and two categories of citizens are being created: those citizens who have rights and who have obligations, in terms of taxation, the army, of other kinds of obligations, because they live in that country and there is also the category of citizens who have only rights, but who have no obligation and have no possible consequence of any political choice. These are the two speeds and the two categories of citizens that the proposal of the New Democracy, the Change Movement, the Greek Solution and the Mera25. The Greek people understand that and you know that the Greek people understand that. You know very well that it is understood and that is why you have resorted to distortion and silence, hiding that what we are proposing is true in many countries, and even the greater the migration, Mr Kumucako, is, the stricter criteria, and some of the funny arguments that we have heard these days. I conclude in seconds with the two issues that have been raised and we cannot leave them unanswered: SAAP and shipowners. Take note, on two issues where you disagree that you also have a common line there, SYRIZA and New Democracy. On the issue of ASEAN, which, of course, existed between New Democracy and PASOK, you voted together with SYRIZA for the establishment of the independent authorities to become 3/5. And he comes here and complains about this agreement, when his vote also opened the way for it to be achieved. And in the matter of course of shipowners, when the JRC proposed that this "birded" article 107 of the privileges of the Constitution that safeguards the shipowners' privileges, there again SYRIZA and New Democracy and the rest of the group rejected the JRC's proposal. That's all for the story.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Gioka. Mrs. Evangelia Likoules, the Special Rapporteur of the Change Movement, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u205	Thank you very much, Mr President. Much has been said these days, very useful I will say, other commons, other predictable, other interests, other originals. But we'll say everything was useful. When you come to open public dialogue, even the expected ones are useful. Some of them, however, were really memorable and others were also shocking. First of all, you will allow me to mention - because it has been mentioned today, it is a fresh thing - as far as the procedures of the SAAP and the SAAP as a whole are concerned. We are the democratic area, the progressive space that has been inspired and implemented by this law and now a system of merit, the only one that still exists in Greece. They tremble their foundations often densely. It's no accident. Nobody likes it. But because it is the real blockage of protection of procedures and impartiality, our good morning for the AACC! We will continue to defend the role of regulation that PASOK and the Change Movement as his follower will always guard against. The worthy and capable executives present in all the political areas, as we see them, must proceed independently of their stamp. And who do you talk to, anyway? Who do you move the finger from here to there, to us, to the PASOK and the Change Movement? You, who make the narrow mark and the flirt of the century, as called by a press portion, to get executives because of their training, because of their experience, because of their ideological burden and the DNA you lack to make you the same? On the contrary, then, you ask our officers and you want to take them within your parties, and you wonder why there might be first line officials worthy and capable of serving the independent authorities? Of course there are, because that's who we are. That's our DNA. I heard something that is probably going out of the debate today, Minister. I thought you'd answer that. I reserve you to respond to the end. I have heard Mr Velopoulos - and I have stretched my ears, if I have not listened well - say what he said about the vaccination, saying 'promote illegal immigrants'. And we are the Greek Parliament, the Greek Parliament and the pandemic are scanning and relaxing the world outside and the death is not stopping. We are also listening to this in Parliament, and we are also listening to illegal immigrants in Parliament. He meant refugees, and I imagine structures, because other illegal immigrants, I don't know how to be packed somewhere and vaccinate them. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] These things must be officially answered by your Government. As far as we are concerned, our position is quite clear and we believe that there is no room for such a racist speech within Parliament. Now to ours. Look, things are crystal clear. After a two-day conversation, what else does the poet have to say? And how can he interpret all that he has heard? What can we say? To cyberneticize and reconstruct Officer Opposition? I also found what I forgot yesterday to say and I will give it to Parliament to have it in its minutes. In June 2009 at the 19th Conference of the Federation of Greek Communities of Sweden attended by Mr. Tsipras invited, he said in favour of the letter vote, ladies and gentlemen, in favour of the letter vote! It was recorded in the relevant minutes as well as in the magazine "Greek Greekism of the North", June 2009, Publisher: Federation of Greek Communities of Sweden, page 23-24, so that you don't suffer, my dear Mr Katrugale, when you look for it. Our net position of the Change Movement is equal to all Greek citizens, whether they stay inside or abroad. We do not share the view of the Communist Party of Greece, which is stable, but we said so yesterday. It is from the outset what you are saying, namely that I will not be defined by those who live abroad. Your thoughts, your thinking, the basis of your thoughts, we are not in agreement. We believe that we need to proceed fully and directly to the introduction of the letter of vote, with regions with five to seven Members from the State vote, by counting the vote on the national outcome, as is the position of Mera25, to recognise this. Madam President, you have said so clearly today with a narrow voice. But come where he was hiding...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u206	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u207	Yes, Mr. President. Don't I have the same time as the KKE's colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u208	I told you to finish it. That doesn't mean I'm interrupting you to God.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u209	No, Mr President, you are always kind and always tolerated. And while these were said by the other parties and they took down the amendment, you have also downloaded it. You want to hide and joy leaves you and you have taken an amendment to which you say what? Four seats of Members of Parliament in Europe, in North, Central and South America, in the Oceanian and Far East countries, and you have put a fourth of the others we are talking about. And he'll get a MP out of every area. I'm asking myself this. I'll say one thing, I won't say the other thing, because I can't make it. With the same population, no matter what population, if it's a million and a hundred thousand, it's taking out a MP? Do you see that logical? What about the rest? What are the other things you say to us and how do you do these regions and who are voting for them? The nice thing is on the second page, where you say 'autonomously'. In other words, in simple words, in order for the world to understand us, you are supposed to bring this here, ashes in the eyes once again and you say not to include the Greeks' vote in the national result. This is your position very clear, despite the fact that in Sweden in 2009 your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, said more. I imagine that's why he didn't come here today to talk to us, explain, tell us, ask him our way. He had no reason to come. Mr President, I am ending with one final sentence. Mr Minister, this is what the Greek colleague said. And so you seemed to me, that your cigar was enjoying where you sat up, seeing from below that whole thing happen. But I'll tell you something. In my places they say that 'the deprivations honor the first'. That also matters in politics, because tomorrow, Minister, and after you have finished your cigar, you will have to lift your sleeves and build a inter-group committee where we will begin to discuss this again. Without an epitome vote, we are not discussing the modern data that apply to Greeks from the Greek Parliament. The Change Movement will be putting down a law proposal. We told you. We're gonna put this proposal down. We're waiting for the intergroup. We cannot and do not want to be alone, we want all the political forces of the country to contribute to this dialogue, with their positions, with their opposing positions, with the objections. But we should all be together. This is not the end of the issue of fraud today, at this meeting. He's always big. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u210	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u211	Here you go, Mr. Heta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u212	In order not to create false impressions, I would like to inform my colleague of the Change Movement and to land it in Greece, because he is probably living somewhere else, that we have no immigration problem in Greece. There are thousands of people - you know that, Mr President, you are from such a region - who are illegally entering our country, so they are illegal. Also, because they are particularly humanists, did we ask what? Get them inoculated! Because racist, ma'am, it's Greek that they're locked up in his house, and they're running free in Athens, in the center uninvasive and have viral mutations. That's racist, not what you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much. Mr. Catrugale, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Minister, during the discussions and after you asked us to accept your terms, you told us that you would also accept our 'orders'. Obviously, you know that 'orders' to other institutions and not to the people's delegation are being given. But you wanted to be consistent from the beginning to the end in the spirit and style of an effort from the remote windows that it had never intended to end up in a state law. A "blue" impression you want to make to the impression of those who have not followed the parties' positions in the first place. I, because I want to take the procedure seriously, despite your lack of seriousness, will reply to questions raised to us during the procedure, first of all, whether our view, which is consistent and consistent, is contrary to constitutional arrangements and, in particular, to the principle of equality of vote. I will read to you and then submit to the Minutes what he said - scientifically, not politically, then he did not have a political report - Mr Gerapetti as plus - rapporteur of the National Committee on Human Rights. It shows there as an alternative, it says: 'The vote of the revenues will only count for three seats in the prevailing ballot and will not be counted for the export of the electoral measure to the ground level'. In other words, it will not be taken into account in the national internal result. And it continues: "This interim alternative is a reasonable restriction on the principle of equal voting in the established case-law of the EES, as it prevents concern that an extensive enlargement of the electorate will not overlap with the election result." This logic has been accepted by the New Democracy too, including in the explanatory memorandum to the law that the criteria set are set out precisely in order not to alter the election result. This in response to colleagues from the New Democracy who have been shocked by this phrase. In this same report Mr Gerapetti is also opposed to our proposal. This report by the ECHR was given in the run-up to the Legislative Committee that we set up at the time. It refers to the model of Italy, France and Portugal, which is the model that we proposed in the revision, and says: "The introduction of representation in States with a large number of non-national voters is an optimal practice, which detracts the consequences of the mass involvement of non-nationals in the national elections, recognising the latter's right to representation through a predetermined number of MPs - Senators". I refer to the proposal of 23-7-2009 by the Council of Democrat Hellenism, which proposes three specific regions abroad: America, Europe and Australia. We did add a fourth, because we also wanted the Greeks to have representation outside of these regions. I should like to add to the constitutional requirements, which are not essential, but which must be answered - the political ones are essential - in order to show the unfounded criticism of the New Democracy, that what Mr Gerapetititi quite rightly said about not taking account of the same terms as the vote of the deportees and the vote of the electorate in the interior now has a very specific place in the revision of Article 54. You of the New Democracy and of the Change Movement and other parties have added restrictions, but you have also accepted our own proposal, which we voted on alone in the revision, a proposal without restrictions, an explicit provision for one or more constituencies from democratic Hellenism - take note - by way of derogation from what is set out in paragraph 2 of that article for the legitimate population. These foreign territories are therefore recommended without taking into account the provision of the Constitution that where different seats are set up, they should be proportional to the population, as the proposal of Mera25 provides. I conclude by saying that the essence of course is not that you seem to be aware of the Constitution, that you want to continue trying to mislead the migrants, whom your responsible official, the Secretary of State, called - at least those who are a third generation - 'Portugals' and 'Gods from Chicago', terminology that you or the Prime Minister do not use. And of course, to sum up the fact that what we are proposing in relation to the regions to a very large extent is what their own organisations themselves are proposing through the Council of Independent Hellenism. I shall also mention the opinion of Mr Georgiadis, who has also been put on the question of the equivalence of vote and proportionality. In 2009, of course, which was, like you, at LAOS, it correctly linked the equivalence of voting with the anti-constitutional and illegal bonus the election bonus, which is one of the reasons that should not be counted in the same way and without weight, with the votes of the Greeks in the interior, in accordance with the arguments developed by the Communist Party of Greece and with which we agreed, acceding as a compromise in its own view of criteria and restrictions. So I read what Mr Georgiadis said at the RIE summit of 1-4-2009, page 7667. I do not present it in the Minutes because it is from the Minutes: 'As far as the hypocrisy of unconstitutionalism is concerned, because it affects the proportionality of voting, you will allow me to say to you, ladies and gentlemen, that you have created an electoral law that gives forty additional seats' - now it is fifty - 'in the first party. Didn't the judgement of the proportionality of the vote not hurt you here?' So all this shows your consistency. Our consequence is that the same proposal that we tabled in the 2018 Review has been tabled here as well. I did not want to ask the question now, because he cannot answer me. Nevertheless, I imagine the rapporteur of KINAL will answer us in an articulation or otherwise, what is different from the proposal of the New Democracy, which you are so fascinatingly supporting today from the one which he denounced in 2009, which was the same, Mr Venizelos as a patriot, a scoundrel and a rapist. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] Finally - and I thank you for the tolerance, I am really finishing with this - I put in the Minutes a current 'Kathemerini' post, which says that from the hundreds of thousands, which Mr Theodorikos rightly said, they have the right to be included in the existing provisions of the law on the facilitation of voting, only a hundred and twenty have completed the process. I think this shows, beyond the disposition of your communication, the main reasons why you have come. You are looking for the submission of this proposal, which you knew in advance has no luck in Parliament, the exit from your responsibilities to implement the law. I have repeatedly asked you - and you have committed yourself to answering, but you have not done so, I hope you will now - how does the implementation of the law go ahead, if it is true what is being said and what you are prepared to do next. Why have you refused to convene the intergroup committee monitoring the implementation of the law? And this is where you're going to make fun of the relatives and the migrants? Won't you apply an existing law in view of your hopes to improve it? I hope that your final position, Mr Minister, has the seriousness of the former. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u215	Thank you too, Mr. Catrugale. Now let's go to Mr. Georgios Kumucako from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr President. It is the last day of a parliamentary debate today on a very critical issue, the unrestricted possibility for Greeks abroad to participate in the electoral process, namely the highest function of the state. It is the last day, Mr. Katrugale, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, but it is your last chance to respond to this challenge, to hear and react positively to the desire of the Greeks abroad. You're gonna lose her? I ask, not because I care exactly what you will suffer from this position, but because your attitude, due to the constitutional provisions and the specific welfare of the increased majority required by the law, your attitude, your refusal, your historical refusal will also draw the opportunity that the country has to give this opportunity to Greeks abroad. And that's your responsibility. It is precisely in the face of this responsibility that the government, the Minister of the Interior, Mr Voridis, comes and makes a move of consensus and consensus. Did he surprise you? What's he saying? It says that we should agree to the two minimum and fundamental: the balance of vote, all the votes to have the same weight and all the registered to vote. From there on, we're ready to discuss everything else. And deny it. In other words, deny the hard core of logic and constitutional welfare. That's why I'm telling you you're taking responsibility. And unfortunately, you are also assembling the Greek state not to do its duty, not to do what the constitutional provision has imposed on it since 1975. However, the fact that you do not accept reveals your true will. The statement you made, the thoughts, are not real suggestions. These are pretexts not to vote. And that proves the fact that you cannot react to the positive proposal made by the government. On two issues you have raised several times. You're telling us that we're opportunists, that we did it for communication reasons, that it was the subject of Mrs. Jack. No, no. It's none of that. It's none of that. The government's position was the same since the 2019 compromise, that it was a necessary compromise but not satisfactory and that our ambition had been adapted to the political realism of the juncture. So the reason, as a position, existed. In order not to go back to our ideological reports where our founding declaration says that New Democracy is a party that identifies the people with the nation. So we have an ideological basis to make these proposals. And then, there are the statements by Jack, the statements by your official, the responsible dealing with the issues of democrat Hellenism, Ms. Jack, to the "NATIONAL KYRYKA" of New York. Did we have to take them seriously or take them into the finest? You blame us for taking her seriously. You should go out and say that we had to take it to the "little", that it is not serious, that we should not listen to it. We should not have seen that the officer of the Officership comes and says that all the terms and conditions of the previous law should be abolished. Ignore her? Is that what you're telling us? Should we take her to the "speak"? We took it seriously, and found it to be the cause of the existing cause of tabling the law which, unfortunately, seems to be going against and missing a great opportunity. The last thing I'm going to say and I'm going to go down is that you blame us - and Mr. Katrugalos said so - that we are misleading and we want to protect the support of the Greeks abroad. I read to you: "We are sure that today's proposal of the Ministry of the Interior to remove restrictions expresses all Greeks who live outside Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, it is addressed to us - 'I assure you that all representatives of political parties share this view. We Greeks of Diaspora find that the Greek Parliament is becoming a sterile opposition and you do not want to recognize the right and the right." And the final paragraph of a letter, which I will tell you immediately who has signed it: "Be sure that if the removal of these restrictions is voted on, it will be a great victory for democracy and not just for a party. You will all have contributed to the fair return of the right that we all have of the election and the election." She is the President of the Hellenic Community of Paris making this letter. It is not just the Paris community but it has this letter, which I submit to the Minutes and which I have the electronic link, and the support of a hundred and fourteen thousand signatures. [[At this point Mr Georgios Koumoutsaskos presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So are we the ones that are misleading or you who do not listen to their voice and desire? It is obvious that once again this fact, our Government, is on the right side of both history and society. You make a mistake and you'll be left alone, with an opposition alone under the circumstances! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, too. We'll hang up with the minister. Mr Mavroudis Voridis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u218	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to thank my colleagues very much. A significant number intervened in this process, fifty colleagues of the New Democracy, in denouncing another claim by Mr Katrugalos that there was allegedly no interest on the part of the New Democracy in supporting this bill. I think it is one of the bills that brought together one of the largest number of interveners, especially in the present phase of pandemic. I consider this to be quite reasonable, I consider it normal and important, precisely because of the value of this intervention, despite all the enormous attempt to underestimate that has been made on the part, first and foremost, of the Officerial Representation. It is understandable and the effort to underestimate. Because when you have already been defeated since the start of the debate, obviously the only strategy is to underestimate the value of the debate, not to pay attention, to think that ultimately it is something - how you said it - communication without added value. I responded yesterday to the whole debate of the incentives given to me, which we were given, and to the fact that in the end this debate on incentives is worthless. I shall just repeat, to close yesterday's argument on this part, that whether or not something is communication, whether or not something has humbly motives or not, whether something is voter or not, does not change the political dilemma that puts a legal action before Parliament. Why, in the end, the debate as it starts and as it has been done, has a key question: Will the Left once again prevent the Greeks from voting? That's the question. And here you have to answer. Will you tell me, is this just on the left? Why am I saying it? Because the crucial thing would be a change in your attitude. Everyone else is in favour. Even Mera25, who votes against, votes against a footnote: That he would like to vote under different conditions, which I said to be prepared to discuss these conditions if I hear you a yes So the title of my speech is this: The Left once again will prevent the abstaining Greeks from voting? This is the debate today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u219	It's not SYRIZA left or SYRIZA alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u220	Listen, Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm on ID issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u221	It's supposed to be Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u222	I, as far as I am concerned, accept their allegations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u223	Please don't interrupt him. He hasn't interrupted anyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u224	They tell me it's the Radical Left coalition. I accept that. I don't want to decay them. I don't want to say what it is. If they say they're left, I accept it. I must say that this debate has been accompanied by personal attacks and designations. I will insist on avoiding them because, in fact, I believe in the value of the arguments. My aim is not to personally demolish Mr. Katrugalo. After all, it doesn't matter. It doesn't matter if Mr. Katrugalos says good or doesn't say good, if I like his style or I don't like his style, if he's a good person or he's a bad person. These things don't matter. What matters is his argument. The arguments are worthy. Political positions are worthy. Of course, when a person has no arguments, personal assault and an endurance effort at a personal level, he replaces - there is an attempt to replace - the lack of arguments. And that's understandable, just vulgar. But understandable. But we come to the debate, 'what are those which have been heard?', why do you have to tell us why, in the end, you do not withdraw, because you do not consent, because you do not agree and what we have heard as arguments? We have heard the argument, which basically comes from the JRC's side. Afterwards, unfortunately, I have not even understood whether or not you share it, whether SYRIZA shares it or not, because you are still trying to step on all boats. What did the JRC tell us? The JRC said: No, I don't want the restrictions lifted. Why don't I want the restrictions removed? Because I want it to be proved for these migrated that there is an economic and social link. How will the economic bond prove? With the tax statement. How, yet, could it prove? A parameter could be a two-year stay if it is linked to work. So there's a financial bond. What's the social bond? The social bond is the two-year stay over the last thirty-five years. How will he prove himself? Did he go to the Army? Is it over school? Did he go to college? Here, then, are some criteria - the JRC says - to prove this economic and social relationship. The question here is this: and I stress it, I do not have to listen again to the argument of constitutionality. We're talking politically. We are discussing whether it is appropriate to discuss whether it is politically correct, not whether it is constitutional. Yes, it is a constitution. I did. We are therefore discussing something different. So the question is this: is this approach correct? Is that right? Two things: imagine now where this argument leads. Firstly, we are supposed to be someone, who, let us say, is fifty years old, has migrated to twenty-fifths. He was, however, studying - there are twenty-five years away - this man, so he can prove that, in the final analysis, he has a right to facilitate. But for twenty-five years it has been completely alienated. He hasn't read Greek newspaper, he hasn't got a phone back, he's been rehabilitated professionally. He'll make it easier. Let's go to another example. One who is sixty, has migrated twenty, he cannot prove that the last thirty-five years of the forty are two years in Greece. But he has his ninety-year-old mother in Greece and every day he calls. He speaks with her, is an active member of the Greek community, participates in all the processes of the community. He won't be easy. Why do I bring you these examples? To say that this concept we require to facilitate both Greek citizens, leads us to such kinds of contradictions. And you will allow me to say this: SYRIZA is critical, because he considered it to be too strict that I set up, in order to prove the economic and social integration of a foreigner who asks him to be granted the status of Greek citizen, to be naturalized, an economic criterion: to prove the last five years of his stay in Greece that he has an income equal to the minimum wage. So SYRIZA wouldn't want me to have the alien asking for his naturalisation, that criterion. To remove it. A foreigner with a seven-year stay will be a Greek citizen and will vote without any proof of his economic integration, but the national Greek citizen, who is registered on the electoral lists, but the one who has not made a tax statement in Greece, cannot be facilitated to vote. So, in fact, we are seeing here the deep controversy, not to say prejudices, not to say hard ideological distortions that this type of approach creates. But take note of something else: you have, let us say, put the shipowner's argument. One Greek citizen, a shipowner, who, in fact, spoke a lot about the previous Prime Minister, but I will say about the institution of the Prime Minister...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u225	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u226	The truth is that. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] The truth is that. But don't pay attention to that, Mr. Zachariadis. It's not the big one. I understand that you have an anguish to defend Mr. Tsipras. But it's not the big one. I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u227	Mrs. Pelloni said more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u228	I didn't say that. But listen to this: this particular person who has spoken so badly, indeed, and who, in any case, is characterised by his position and we assess it - we have no problem in putting all of us together, I think, for that reason - what he said. I am a Greek citizen, I will vote, but in the end - I do not care what is going to happen here, because my interests with alpha, beta, the fucking way is elsewhere. Isn't that what he said? Mr. Gioka, isn't that what he said? But he will vote. Why do I put this on you? Because here we have the major task - and we must be very careful - is the status of the Greek citizen. In the capacity of the Greek citizen, we should not lay conditions for the exercise of his or her electoral right or - I will say - to facilitate his or her electoral right. But Mr. Katrugalos will tell me, the Constitution has provided for such a possibility. True. Obviously, she predicted it because the parties' positions had already been established in order to have such a solution and wanted to give a flexibility so that we could achieve a result, which, in fact, arrived at the previous law. But not that this is the right and the best. That's because the Left wants to set these conditions. And here is the following question: Well, Mr. Voridis, and how did you come now, all of a sudden, this terrible idea, since there was this law, and we are now having this debate? Samaris, don't you know the parties' seats? Mr. Katrugalos says: But Mr. Mitsotakis had come out and announced it. I think in Argentina he said that, right. He said it beforehand. Yes, sir. Why had Mr. Mitsotakis announced this beforehand? What did he react to? He reacted to a complaint, he reacted to a request from Greek citizens, who said to him: "You voted for it, but we do not vote for it, we do not facilitate it." But because we punished Mrs. Jackie this weekend, but also all this time, Mrs. Jackie, what did she react to? Why has he termed 'insulting', 'democratic', 'democratic' - and I do not remember what else - the restrictions we are now saying to abolish? What did Mrs. Jackrey react to? Suddenly he went to "NATIONAL KINGDOM" and said "Start me to tell you how I think about the restrictions." He reacted to a question put to her by a reporter in a homogeneous newspaper. What was the question? "But what about the restrictions? We cannot vote.’ That is what created the basis for this debate, that - and I will go down to it and tell you another non-existence that exists - may say the CSK or say today that the conditions set are satisfactory, but that is what SYRIZA and the CSK say, the people are not saying so. The democrats say that the conditions are unsatisfactory, the public aggregations say that. How now suddenly all the communities of impoverishment, if they are so nice, and balanced, and balanced, all this, because suddenly people come and protest? In other words, at the end of the day, if everyone is able to vote, they are coming and asking for the abolition of restrictions without object? Obviously, there is a widespread belief that people who would like to exercise and make it easier to exercise their electoral right at home cannot do so. This was the purpose of Mrs Jackri's reaction, and Mr Mitsotakis has consistently reacted. I say "opportunisticly" because Mrs Jackres changed her position as soon as they pulled her party ear from the party and Mr Mitsotakis implements his commitment to this initiative today. That's the difference. Mr Mitsotakis has promised that he will do what the New Democracy's position over time is serving it on this legislative initiative, Mrs Jackson went and said it and until she returned on Monday she took it back. But the problem is there. Let's go to the next conversation. He says Mr. Giokas, but also others: but he will vote for a sufficient number. To finish with a few or a lot, because I don't understand your position here, you want them to be few, you want there to be many, I don't understand. On the one hand, you worry that if there are many, we will have a change of the electorate. On the other hand, you say that if they are few, the government will have failed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u229	We didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Katrugalos said so. Isn't that right? Or I didn't get it right. If I misinterpret you, correct me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, because he asked me, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u232	If I misinterpreted him, I'd be corrected by Mr. Katrugalos. Because that's how I figured it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u233	Yes, of course.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u234	I said, of course, that we have a law that, although it was a compromise, was the only possible regulatory text and you have an obligation to implement it and you must not escape from it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u235	That's right. But let's go to a few or a lot of them. You haven't heard me speak with numbers, have you? I have not said whether it will be eight hundred thousand, which I read in a newspaper, whether it will be three hundred thousand, which I hear estimates, whether it will be eleven thousand, who voted in the European elections. You haven't heard me say a number. Why? The answer is: “Because I have no evidence to make such a prediction. What do I undertake to do? I am committed to fully fulfilling the requirements of the law that Parliament has passed. What has Parliament said? That there will be an information campaign, this campaign will take place. This campaign, its content and its plan, will be presented to you, Mr Zachariadis - I say it because you have issued communications on this subject, Mr Zachariadis - not only in the intergroup committee. And in order to finish this, the intergroup committee, according to the law, has competence over objections, judge the objections and check the lists of frauds that will be registered. That is what the Intergroup will do, but it is not the Intergroup. However, because I want there to be a clear landscape in this, I will come to Parliament, to the Committee on the Interior, to present the company and its plan for the campaign, and the way in which it will organise the mediation, and of course the content, as it will have determined. This is to inform the parliamentary committee and not just a intergroup committee, but Parliament, most importantly. You asked me for a intergroup, I tell you that Parliament will be informed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u236	Finally! Three months we've been asking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u237	Did you see where the answers are coming? I've answered your question. Watch out. Therefore, this will all be done in full, as will every effort to make the most of digital technology, in order to make it easier for the public to access data. There's gonna be every effort like this. And because you are asking me for applications, Mr Katrugale, today's applications are thirty-six, two hundred twelve - and here's something to worry about - a hundred and a half were rejected. I do not think that it is indicative, because the figures are too small, and so we will have an image after the information campaign has run to a second level, when the elections are getting closer, which, as you can see, is far too far now. So no one is speeding up. So I do not think we have a picture right now. I would just say that this is a pilot run, now that the platform has been opened, but it is important that you have a little place too. Because if what you are actually saying is that a large number will lead to an alteration of the election result, as I imagine it is what has been said, then I do not know and what you wish, to be a large number or to be a small number. In order not to worry, because we are clear and want the number to be as large as possible, we will do our utmost to ensure that the number is as large as possible. From there on, the result of this effort, I think, will be put into discussion, because there will be an assessment of the provisions of the law, that is, what will ultimately bring these forecasts that are already in place, and for which the sense of fault, the position of the deceased, the placement of the deportees is that they are restrictive. So I answered that as well. Why, though, do you deny? I have heard the argument that Mr Ragus has adopted today, as Mr Giokas has rightly pointed out, with a spectacular shift in position, that you know that we are concerned about the question of blood law. What is the law of blood that is concerned? For allegedly an exaggerated spread, a repetition of the special electoral lists and of the people involved in the process. So what is it that concerns the Left? That someone who is the master of a Greek, fourth generation, while his grandfather had not dealt with becoming a Greek citizen, had not dealt with his father becoming a Greek citizen, he will suddenly rise on a nice day and will say: "I start the process of naturalisation of my grandfather and then my father, so that I can become a Greek citizen, so that I can come to vote." Now, Mr. Gioka, seriously, how many do you think can be found?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u238	I don't know.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u239	Because I do know there, even ten won't be there. Because at the end of the day, someone who had taken such a distance from things will in fact not enter this process to come to vote in a country from which it has been cut off all this time. To rise, in other words, a third-generation or fourth-generation person, without any relationship until now, and will suddenly say: "Now I decided to vote, to participate in Greek things, to shape the Greek political process." So the danger you are referring to is in fact, as we all understand, pretextful. It is a risk which does not exist and you say so, to have something to say, to deny the vote. We shall now go to the last, which has been raised on the issues of the regions and representation. Listen. The SYRIZA today bears, in my opinion, a huge responsibility, because - beware - it does not even have any argument about what he is doing. It benefits from the migrants, from Greek citizens who live abroad, the possibility of being facilitated without even having an argument. It is regrettable what is happening with the responsibility of the Left today. I sign up to decisions, ladies and gentlemen, with which the Minister for the Interior is authorised to hold elections in consular stores in Greece, to vote for their citizens in elections. I signed Portugal's request. I signed Bulgaria's request. I signed Peru's request. I signed Norway's request. I signed Finland's request. I signed Moldova's request. [[At this point, the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The residents of all these countries are privileged over Greek residents abroad. They can vote. You deprive us of it. And all these questions will be asked: Why? What's the cause? And the JRC says what it says. I've answered them. I have shown the deadlock of these restrictions, their inconsistency, their anti-corruption, the deep sense of injustice they create, but at least the JRC says: "I want to make it easier for them, to others, I do not want to make it easier." SYRIZA comes along and says: "Oh, no, I want to make it easier for everyone. I do not want restrictions.’ Yes, sir. ‘But I do not vote for the lifting of restrictions’. But why, while you want, don't you vote for lifting the restrictions? "A, I do not vote for the removal of the restrictions, because I want them to be electoral regions." I would like to ask you: are you getting upset by the word 'orders'? You didn't consider it enough. Okay. So let us keep the accountability here. So let's go from now on. For words, not words, I'm telling you a simple thing. I'll do it to you. I'll take it. You want elections? Election regions. What else do you want? You want it to be four? It's gonna be four. And what else does he want, though? He wants no parties to vote. I ask: why? Why not vote for parties? Mr Katrugalos says: 'To avoid disrupting national unity, because the depopulation must be united and not divided into parties'. But are they not going to participate in the parliamentary elections? Are we not going to make it easier for them to exercise their right to vote in parliamentary elections? The Members selected by the Greek people do not belong to parties? Aren't the parties anticipated by the Constitution? Isn't the parties a basic institution of parliamentary democracy? How suddenly did you exclude them? How suddenly can democrats participate, without limitations on SYRIZA, but will they not vote for a party? Will you explain it to us? The disorder of national unity? I'll be sorry. You know, this is an argument for classical totalitarian regimes. Anti-party arguments are always developed by right-wing regimes, but they want the abolition of parliamentary democracy. The main argument is national unity. How do you use this? This is the foundation for this type of rhetoric. How does this argument by a party on the left sound, namely, that if the referendum vote for New Democracy, SYRIZA, KKE or whatever it wants, that creates a break in the Greeks from the Democratic Republic? Incomprehensible! That's why I'm telling you. In fact, what is it you want to avoid with this proposal? To count his vote by the Greek Prime Minister in shaping the internal election result. There I come and ask: Why avoid it, since you say you do not want restrictions? Because otherwise, if you want restrictions, you're going with the JRC. You say that 'yes, I want restrictions and I do not vote, Mr Vorides, not because I do not want restrictions, but because I want restrictions, because I think they should not affect the result'. So here, it's where you're in deep conflict...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u240	That is why I read the opinion of Mr Gerapetti.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u241	Yes, sir. I shall reply to Mr Gerapetti's opinion, although it is not of particular value not to the opinion of Mr Gerapetti, but to the addition of a name to what we are discussing now. What is worth is the argument. So here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u242	The argument is obviously the alteration of the will of the national electorate. That's where Mr. Gerapetritis refers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u243	So you're going back to JRC position. That's what I'm saying. So you're going back to the JV position that in fact...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u244	It refers to the explanatory statement, Mr Voridis, in the explanatory statement you signed and voted on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u245	There are two arguments, therefore, which Mr Katrugalos says to bring back to our memory. The first is that Mr Gerapetritis, not, of course, as a member of the New Democracy, not as a minister of the New Democracy, not as a party, but as a scientist in a committee, expressed a scientific opinion. Obviously, you will ask him to clarify his scientific view. This is a scientific debate - I am sure you will do it among yourselves and will be very interesting - but the political view of the New Democracy, which Mr Gerapetti obviously supports, is what I am presenting to you. So, now, with regard to the argument - to leave what Mr Gerapetritis said in a different context - the argument what is here? Whether, in the final analysis, the Greeks should or should not be counted against the national result. And what does SYRIZA say? Oh, no. Why don't you tell people to hear it, make your position clear? No, you're telling them. Don't tell me about the lifting of restrictions. You say that you do not want to vote and count their vote in the national result. But where would they vote then? To vote to make four MPs. So the vote on all the results would affect 1.2% of the composition of the electorate. This is the four Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u246	But with the law...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u247	And not to affect - let me - 98.8% of the composition of the parliamentary body.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u248	But, Minister, with today's law two of the Democrats will be elected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u249	But the influence of the impoverished, Mr Katrugale - and now you are unfair to yourself - is obviously not the election of the two Members of Parliament, it is precisely the formation of the election result, at which party he is going to govern.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u250	So, you're talking about the bonus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u251	I am talking about the entire reading of the vote, like all votes. When one vote is taken, yours, Mr. Catrugale, does it not affect the whole of the election result? Answer: yes. So to the parliament, you tell him, I will make it easier for you, but you will not have any influence on the vote on the election result, but on the one hand, the four Members you can elect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u252	That could...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u253	But not having dialogue, Mr Katrugale. That is why I have allowed you to do so once, and I have allowed you to do so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u254	So the picture is clear. And be careful, here's the hypocrisy of SYRIZA, here's the fact that she doesn't take a clear place, and here's where she doesn't dare look into the eyes not only the proven, but the Greek citizens. Because this case is not just a case of fraud, it is a case of all Greek citizens. Because they are listening to SYRIZA today that there will be weighted votes, first-speed votes and second-speed votes, which, I would say, does not. The JRC's position imposes restrictions, says they will only be facilitated, but for those who normally facilitate their vote as a whole, it does not make two categories. To avoid obvious, to avoid telling the truth, to present your political position, you made this construction. Watch out. So here we go to the value of today's debate. It is double, because, with today's debate, we have made clear positions that have been hidden all this time, so now we all know what everyone thinks about this issue, and in a clean and detailed manner and, secondly, why? Why, in the end, will you answer the basic question: the Left will once again block the Greeks' vote? That is the crucial question of this debate, and you will reply in a moment with your vote.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is tabling its reports on the draft laws: a. the Ministry of Development and Investment: (a) the Agreement on Science and Technology Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America; and (b) the Amending Protocol to the Agreement on Economic, Scientific and Technological Cooperation and Education Cooperation between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the United States of America; and b) the Ministry of Tourism: 'Following Annex XVIII to the International Convention on the Privileges and Immunities of Specialized Organisations with regard to the World Tourism Organisation'. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior is closed. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. According to the third subparagraph of Rule 72(a) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, a roll-call vote will take place on the basis of Article 1 on the nominee, as well as on the entire bill on account of the qualified majority required by Article 51(4) of the Constitution. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u256	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. The roll-call vote on the principle of the law of the Ministry of the Interior will be taken on this point, on Article 1, on the nominee article and on the draft law of the Ministry of Interior. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u257	I would like to inform you that letters and fax (fax) colleagues have been sent to the Bureau pursuant to Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u258	Once you have finished, please close the electronic voting system.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u259	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. In the light of the foregoing, the Court A total of 213 Members voted. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAI', 190 Members voted. They voted against the principle, i.e. 'OH', 23. "PARON" voted no one. In view of the increased majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members required by Article 51(4) of the Constitution, namely 200 Members, the draft law was not accepted in principle. The first paragraph of Article 1 A total of 213 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 190 Members. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 23 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. In view of the increased majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members required by Article 51(4) of the Constitution, that is to say 200 Members, one of the draft law was not accepted. He proposed that the Court should reply as follows: A total of 213 Members voted. In favour of the article, i.e. 'NAH', they voted 190 Members. Against the article, i.e. 'Notice', 23 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. In view of the increased majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members required by Article 51(4) of the Constitution, namely 200 Members, the Chamber was not accepted. Total: A total of 213 Members voted. In favour of the whole, i.e. 'NA', 190 Members voted. Against the whole, i.e. 'NOV', 23 Members voted. "PARON" voted no one. In view of the increased majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members required by Article 51(4) of the Constitution, namely 200 Members, the draft law was not accepted on the whole. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u260	After the conclusion of the vote with the electronic system, the draft law of the Ministry of the Interior: ‘Restrictions on the inclusion in the special electoral lists of foreign voters’ were not accepted in principle, on Article 1, on the nominee article and on the whole, because it did not collect the majority required by Article 51(4) of the Constitution by a majority of 2/3 of the total number of Members. I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to be responsible for the ratification of the Minutes relating to this unresolved bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u261	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-26-S1-commons.u262	With the consent of the House at 17.05 p.m. the meeting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, May 27, 2021, at 11.00, on the subject of Parliament's legislative work: only debate and vote at the outset, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: "Statement of the contract for the transfer of royalties due to a contribution in kind against an increase in share capital between one of the State's Private Property Resurance Fund. and on the other hand Greek - Real Estate Management and Management Company of Hellenic Airport S.A., according to the additional agenda.
