ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 10-32021 authorisation, the minutes of its meeting, of Wednesday 10-2-2021, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: "Greece in motion: Sustainable Urban Mobility - Micromobility - Arrangements for modernising, simplifying and digitising the procedures of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport". ‘National Accessibility Authority, National Commission for Human Rights and National Committee for Bioethics and Technical Affairs’.]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union’s own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and other provisions. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 4 March 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. With regard to the organisation of the debate, it is naturally proposed that the rapporteurs, the special speakers and the parliamentary representatives should be involved, a first cycle involving one speaker from each parliamentary group and two twelve-faced speakers with the following proportion: five from New Democracy, three from SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the JRC, one from the Greek Solution and one from Mera25. With teleconferencing service - webex platform - there are also two dozen-speaking speakers with the same ratio as yesterday. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. I think that there is no objection to the basic principle of the procedure. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. We are starting with Mr Konstantinos Karagkounis, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, as you will understand from my suggestion, this bill is one of what I would call compulsory consensus bills, because it is a bill that is part of the government's policy and strategy, but also the need for Greece in general to move ahead with its economic reconstruction, let alone now that the economic wounds of the past have been added to the unprecedented burdens of the pandemic. This requirement for consensus is not only a matter of economic feasibility but also a matter of political maturity, because at this extremely critical juncture, I would say that we need unity and not division, political worries and introverts. Sadly, however, - although I have a hope that the debate in plenary will take place in a more creative context than the debate in the committee, as shown by the positions of the Officerial Opposition and part of the Eleonne - even in such a bill of compulsory consensus, as I described, instead of consent to economic and political self-evidently, there was once a sterile opposition paradox, but also a exploitation of what is currently happening in the country. So, first of all, let me say that I hope in this bill that there will be a debate on the essential issues that concern and not the economic past, nor - let me say - the police violence, which has been mentioned yesterday by colleagues in the counter-population. I understand that some do not have much to say about the substance, but it is not a solution to link this particular annoying situation to the painful problems of everyday life. And I am not saying this because I want to avoid this debate, ladies and gentlemen, because police violence, where there is - and its storms unfortunately exist in all the countries of the world - is self-evident that we, too, are determined to do so. No tolerance to such incidents. However, this government - which no one can blame for not defending individual rights - will not learn lessons from those who permanently swear to infraction. Because all of you who found the opportunity to speak, regardless of police violence, in fact, you don't care about police violence, but your goal is the police, law and order, the rule of law itself. Because in reality you see with sympathy - unfortunately - some of you with these unacceptable images, twice and three times unacceptable at a time of pandemic, hundreds of people conspiring in various cities in Greece to threaten, exalt and eventually destroy the rule of law. Let me remind you of the phrase not ours but of the phrase of one of your own MPs: 'Know that we are not terrorized by terrorists'. Likewise, I hope we can hear you about the substance of the bill, because we have been in detail - from you we have not heard anything - and not to rewrite the economic history of the recent past in the country, because this story has been written in many of the last elections. Therefore, in this sense, this is not the right time - as some of the Mera25 were attempted in committee - to scratch wounds in 2015. Because, here you can see that we are going to talk about strengthening the banking system and financial stability, and not remembering the days when the banks were closed in here, and people were trying to get some euros out of their misery, which was almost broken up by the negotiation of amateurism and the logic of the "land fire" by some. At least the tails made in the pandemic era are due to a state of emergency and an unforeseen dramatic event. It was - to use our term of legal - force majeure. But the 2015 tails to the banks were, unfortunately, dome tails and were due to the irresponsible activity - fortunately - of a small part of the Greek policy and it would be extremely useful for you not to hear lessons about all of this today, because it is good to remember the wise saying that "the house of the hanged man is not talking about rope". SYRIZA, who of course does not want to remember in 2015 and in a sense does well, implements his doctrine "after removal from the fund in no way recognized". Indeed, because I listened to Mr Tsakalotos yesterday in committee to tell us that he will make reference to misdemeanorism about who was to blame, who was not to blame for the memorials, who has a greater or less responsibility for everything that went wrong in the economy of this place, I would say that if there is any doubt about who was responsible for the memorials and for the implementation of genuinely cruel austerity in the SYRIZA era, you do not have, my dear fellow Member, rather than read the statements from time to time of a prominent personality of the European Left, Mr Melanson, who made specific reference to both Mr Tsipras and your policy. For all in Europe, even for your fellow citizens, you have been the hardest supporters of a political deadlocked austerity. That's what Mr. Chakaloto told you, Mr. Melanson then, and that's what he says. As I have said before, the current government at the difficult time of the pandemic has unprecedentedly and drastically strengthened active demand. I have heard today, like everyone, the Prime Minister's position and what he has announced: further support, support for businesses and workers with repayable advances, suspension of redundancies, with rent subsidies, with constant deferral of tax obligations. I think that such an opposition demagogy, which you have done in the committees, and also reproduce in the public debate, goes beyond groundlessness in a sense and a comic and I think you are honestly exposed when you want to make such an opposition speech. So I repeat what I said at the beginning. In particular, the decision we are debating today, namely the decision on EURATOM, is a decision of forced consensus, because we are talking here about something self-evident that has been achieved at the European Council and with which they are actually unlocking EUR 72 billion for our country. I would once again ask the SYRIZA rapporteur to explain to us why he has so far reserved for this decision. This draft law, ladies and gentlemen, serves two complementary aims. I would call them catalytics for the next day of the Greek economy. On the one hand, it validates the decision - the European Union's key decision that makes it possible to disburse these amounts, namely the Recovery Fund and, on the other hand, amends the law governing the operation of the CFS, which is necessary for the strong recapitalisation of the Greek banking system with private capital. So this bill confuses the context in which we are going to go to the post- pandemic era to lay the foundations for strong economic bases and growth. The key to this impetus is the creative use of the recovery fund and the attraction of private capital. I really am going beyond this short-sighted political logic of some opposition parties who refuse to support the coming of resources from the Recovery Fund, because, as I said before, this is what you are doing, bearing in mind the first ratification of the first part, but also helping to create an attractive institutional framework for attracting private capital in the country. And I feel that this refusal is condensed and in the position I have heard from Mr Tsakalotos yesterday in the committee. He said, of course, that he would explain to us today that the country was not attracting investment funds in 2014, he said that the climate was not back in 2014, there were already no signs of growth and recovery and above all - and that, of course, the former Minister will answer us later - the then government did not hand over the assets of the CFD to about 20 billion euros, so that after the proud negotiation of SYRIZA it could take over these 20 billion euros and remain with closed banks and capital controls at 500 million euros. It criticises the draft law in the section on rationalising the operation of the fund, accusing us that we have no strategy for the fund. I think, Mr Chakaloto, that we have been a little confused by meanings and concepts. What do we do with this bill? Just the opposite. It empowers the fund to participate in future recapitalisations and also to have the shares directly distributed to third parties. As you well know, the fund has all the know-how to decide the best solution for itself and it will, as you know, be assisted, as provided for by the provisions, by two independent international consultants to take the critical decisions. Are we going to intervene in decisions concerning it, when it enjoys full repressive autonomy, and even in accordance with Union law? Is that what you mean? Is that what you mean? We are doing what is in the public interest, that is to say we are trying to give a Ventalia of choices to the fund so that, on the one hand, it has participated in the upcoming stock exchange profits that all banks hope to enjoy, along with the implementation of the government strategy for the resolution of the banking system and, on the other, we will set a two-year horizon, as foreseen by law, deinvestment. Because we are now leaving behind - and this must be done and it must at least agree on the Civic Opposition - in the dark times of forced recapitalisations. We are going on a lighter day, if you want, where the emergency support of the banking sector will not be necessary. That is why, gradually, the reason for the fund has to be omitted. We must stop playing with taxpayers' money. Private funds, so the financial system works everywhere, and we finally get away from this terrible situation. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, I told you to the committees. I see no good reason, at least from what I have heard from the rapporteur, but also from Mr Tsakalotos, not to vote for the provisions of the second part. You reminded us of the government's duty, you made a statement, and the Minister told you to participate in the HFSF in future increases in the share capital of systemic banks. We have implemented this, and even by absolved the law - we told you - that you voted in 2015, which you did not allow the CFSF to do so, and which will certainly lose the value of its investment. You did, of course, the other part of your criticism, and you say why you reserve the bill. I hope that you will see this differently then of the conversation and change your mind. So you made a monotonous criticism and opposed the protection of CSF officials. It was, of course, explained to the committees, but let the Greek people and colleagues listen to us. Let's explain it one more time. Criminal immunity is a consequent adjustment of the provision you voted on in 2015 with L.4346, where you explicitly predicted the lowest price of acquisition or disposal. So, what did you do with this arrangement? You recognised that the fund could lose value, suffer damage and legislate. The question is simple. Did you do it to apply the CFSM officials the law and then send them defendants for infidelity? It's politically crazy what you're saying. I, as I understand it and as I can assess it, believe that this is pretenses in sin to find something to say. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Since, Mr President, I have been abusing your time, I would like to close by saying that it is very important in a bill that all of us really need to agree on it, to vote in favour of these provisions so that the banking system can be changed to the best, which is, in fact, afflicted enough over the last ten years and, above all, to give real hope to the citizens who are also waiting to receive for their work, for their prospect, for what they have unfortunately been deprived of in the last ten years of the financial system. I therefore urge everyone to vote in favour of these provisions. Mr President, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u4	The rapporteur-general from SYRIZA, Mr Nikolaos Srmalenes, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr President. We are discussing today the draft law on the European Union's own resources, in which we insist that a second draft law on the changes to the Financial Stability Fund has been attached, which also stole the presentation in the debate at the meetings of the committees, and which was expressed from reservations to serious objections from almost all of the parties to the Opposition Movement other than the rapporteur of the Change Movement, who accused us of saying that we have finally made a reservation in opposition to the Visual Opposition. So today this bill is coming without consultation, it is coming last night in three hundred-page amendments, meaningless amendments with the Ministry of Finance and with the bill under discussion, and finally we have today to discuss a bill that is 'two in one' within a climate of increasing intensity of pandemic, where the situation in the IGC has overcome the red, but also through increasing violence, police and repression used uncontrolled by Mr Chrysochide's mechanisms to intimidate and terrorize the people and youth in order to change the agenda from government failure to the pandemic and the economy, where the official figures of ELSTAT show that we have the third biggest recession in the Eurozone after Spain and Italy and where the organisations of small and small and medium-sized enterprises, trade unions and trade unions, are hitting the risk of closure of their third business. Obviously the government, in order to look elsewhere, has chosen the strategy of polarization and acidification to divide the people and to blame everyone but itself for the harsh consequences of its policy. But know, gentlemen of the government, that the strategy of directed violence, division and polarization will not pass. The people and youth will respond and respond with mass, peaceful, democratic and united struggles against arbitrary, authoritarian and repression. And, of course, away from us all forms of violence, and that is why we have clearly condemned the violence against the police. Violence, however, cannot continue uncontrollably. Last night we had the violent evacuation of the dean at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. Where are you going with this, gentlemen of the government? You're turning us into the post-multiple regime after the civil war in the '50s and '60s? Is that where you're taking it? I'm coming to the bill now. The first part of the decision of the Council of Europe of 14 December 2020 on the marginal increase in the European Union's own resources with an obvious aim of addressing the consequences of the pandemic is hereby ratified. This ratification becomes compulsory for all countries - members of the European Union, and this is to enable the European Union to borrow from markets in order to finance the projects and reforms of the Recovery Fund, as well as the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. We welcomed the European Union for the first time, which was unfortunately forced to do so because of a pandemic, where they understood that in difficult times, in major crises such as the pandemic crisis, as was the crisis of 2008, only major public economic support policies can work. At the same time, we cannot go on with the reasoning we had in previous years, the neoliberal logic of the rigid Stability Pact with the parameters only of the deficit and public debt. Among the European Union's own resources, the application of a uniform rate of 0.80 per kilogram to the weight of non-recyclable plastic waste produced in each country is also established. In other words, the annual flat-rate reduction of the corresponding contributions for Greece is 33 million a year. The question is, is the Greek and Greek Government, with its policy on waste management, the policy on the incineration of waste that it is promoting, can it catch the target? That is the question you need to answer. It also increases to 1.40% of the sum of 1.23%, the gross domestic income of all Member States of the European Union, to cover the annual payment appropriations and to 1.66% of the total gross domestic income of the Member States for the commitment appropriations described in the European Union budget. At this point we want to emphasise our differences in relation to the dominant neoliberalism policy in the European Union, expressed through the Stability Pact, which the European Commission was forced to suspend and implement strong state support policies to address the consequences of the pandemic. This is where the value of strong public intervention seems. We are also raising this issue, on the occasion of the crisis, of the expansion of own resources and, in particular, of the tax on financial transactions and digital giants, as well as of the changes to the rules of the Stability Pact. In recent years we have known that there has been an attempt on the part of the European Commission to review the criteria for own resources and a committee, a special committee under the former Prime Minister of Italy, Mario Monti, has been set up, and that it is addressing these issues. You said that you were following these concerns. The question is not if you're watching. The question is to what extent do you share the proposals on tax on financial transactions and digital giants and if you finally adopt such proposals. Also, another issue in the proposals is the Recovery Fund. How will you, gentlemen of the government, use the resources of the Recovery Fund? We have read - the proposal has not yet been formally tabled in the European Union - your intentions, we have read about a green transition, about a digital transition, about social cohesion, about privatisation, etc. Of course, under these neutral titles, there is always a social targeting, and social targeting is the service of strong business interests at the expense of the vast majority of society. Because so far everything you have voted on, from July 2019 until now, but also what you are going to vote for, serves such a type of growth, with contempt for the environment, with the dissolution of labour relations, with the continuous deterioration of the social state. Of course, all this is the case with the strong business interests, which you bear in mind in your policy, ideologically aligned with the Pissaridis report. With regard to Part Two and the provisions relating to the Financial Stability Fund, your objective has been clear from the debate in the committees. Mr. Zavvos said: "The bill is an important step towards the decommissioning of the public by the banks. The purpose of the draft is the Financial Stability Fund to act as a private investor and not to act as a State aid engineer.’ Of course, the ultimate goal of disinvestment. And of course, we do not disagree with the participation of the Financial Stability Fund in the increase in the share capital of credit institutions, but not with the failure to guarantee its role as shareholder, which is not guaranteed by its similar involvement in the administrations of the banks, nor, of course, by the gradual weakening of the participation of the public as shareholder of the banks. We are, of course, totally opposed to the extension of the immunity of bank managers to the staff of the administration of the CFS. The representative of the banks and the Bank of Greece and the President of the CFS called it the protection of executives rather than immunity. This immunity is proposed under the second subparagraph of Article 405(1) of the Criminal Code, No4619/2019, as amended by Article 12(3) of Law No4637/2019, with effect from 18-11-2019. It goes without saying: 'For the criminal prosecution of the offences referred to in Article 90(1)(b), if the infidelity is directed directly against a credit or financial institution or financial undertaking in the financial sector, i.e. not automatically prosecuted by the prosecutor'. So, where does this aim? It makes it absolutely possible for officials of the Financial Stability Fund to take decisions without being threatened by appeals, which may be brought against them for the acts or omissions that are contrary to the public interest. At a time when serious and major decisions are being made, both for the re-privateisation of Piraeus Bank and for the sale of the National Insurance, what you bring is obvious that the issue of immunity is related to this case. After all, all the indications show that this was the cause of the resignation of Mr Martin Tsurda, CEO of the CFS on 15-2-2021. Finally, since the debate in the committees, you seem to think about a wider change in the role of the CFSF, both for its involvement in the administrations of the banks and for its own prospects. We would therefore expect a more integrated intervention so that we too can have a clearer view, although there is no doubt where you are going with it. You are taking this to weaken public participation in credit institutions. The amendments will then be tabled. However, I would like to point out again that the legislative work, in the way you do it, is a legislative work unorthodox and ultimately undemocratic. We don't live in memorial times, where we had the coercion. We live in times of crisis, of course, of pandemic and of not involving the real plenary, but that does not mean that we can discuss amendments from other ministries. This is where the following question comes in. At a time when the number of MPs from each party is very specific, how will the parties' sectoral leaders be involved in the specific issues that you are bringing today, the Ministry of the Interior, the Ministry of Labour, etc.Huh? How will they participate when they have already declared who will be involved? Are we going to be here, in other words, in a continuous replacement of Members of Parliament so that we can discuss the amendments which you have brought to us at the last hour? These are unacceptable things. This cannot continue. It has also been put to the President of Parliament. The subject of the roll-call vote has also been raised, namely that it is a roll-call vote, because the secretaries of the parliamentary parties are deciding and there is no right for anyone to be differentiated either from the Plenaryism or from the Opposition. This thing can't go on no matter how much the pandemic exists. There are ways, if we want to have rules of a substantial roll-call vote, by rotating Members' turn and by a personal presence on the poll. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, too. Obviously, my dear colleague, you have not been informed of the participation of the sectoral authorities when amendments that are not directly related to the bill are tabled. This issue was resolved at the Conference of Presidents and by a unanimous decision we said that they could take part in exceptional circumstances if they wish and send them to their parties. So that's over, it's solved and there's no question. With regard to the other issue you raised, which you have raised in general, because you have said to all Members, you know that we can vote in letters not to give it through our parliamentary group's secretary. We can give it directly to the Special Secretary of Parliament. The reason is the special speaker from the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, because those who are sitting on the seats of this House are obviously not the same, and those who are obviously sitting on the chairs of the opposition are also not the same, on the subject they have been dealing with since last week, but on Sunday and so far, Greece, the phenomenon of violence - both of us have taken a stand and in the committee yesterday - I would like to make a very specific reference today to a subject which is difficult, because many 'employers' are involved in this debate. Firstly, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to mention that excessive, unjustified violence on the part of the state's organs is obviously not tolerated, but on the contrary they are condemned. The government, however, slowed to react to Sunday's events and, on the other hand, the Prime Minister disobeyed Sunday's events in his letter last Tuesday. It is also the responsibility of the state in all democratic states, through its competent bodies, to overcome this regulated violence, arbitrary violence, which particularly causes the democratic feelings of the citizens in Greece. But let's move on Tuesday to the attempted murder of a police officer and the injuries of two or three police officers. I hope it's all right with their health, as every man wishes that. Here, the terms are reversed. The Qualified Opposition, of course, condemned - it could not be otherwise - as the Government has lately condemned the events of Sunday. However, phrases such as 'violence leads to violence', which unequivocalizes acts of violence, are rejected, are unacceptable. We must also say that the rapture of the Greek citizen's feelings towards violence does not help anyone, it does not help the country in any way, but under no circumstances. I said yesterday in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs that no one wins any of these games. Finally, the attempt to exploit incidents of violence and, finally, to try to exploit as parties a fact of violence and then withdraw from this exploitation by speaking morally that we condemn violence and that violence is not good. We have been living in this unacceptable situation for years. It's time to put an end to it. Still, it's not over. As far as the draft law is concerned, ladies and gentlemen, because in this Chamber, not all of us, but some of us know, I must remind you that the position of PASOK since the 1980s, by Andreas Papandreou, was the increase in the European Union's own resources, the EEC at that time. This position of principle does not need to be explained. We are decades in the EEC, in the European Union today, well aware of what it means. So it's a start-up position. And today that this draft law is coming is a good thing, it is a good thing that it is a good thing for the European Union to decide to increase own resources. Therefore, with the first step of the draft law, which is an article, this article concerning the consent of the Hellenic Republic to the current increase in the European Union's own resources, we are positive. It's a clear position, it's a clear position. And today it is only politically won by anyone who speaks clearly. Anyone who speaks in a way that no one understands what he says, who speaks in a way that their debater, when withdraws from the debate, has not understood what he has heard, only has to lose in the Greek political scene, in the Greek political system. Secondly, with regard to the procedures laid down in Article 311 of the Treaty on the Functioning of the European Union, where an increase in own resources requires the assent of the Member States, so the parliaments of the Member States, since it is a draft law relating to finances, since there is such an obligation for the Hellenic Republic to the European Union on this very serious issue, one cannot be negative in the first part of the draft law, which is the first one, which condensates, in the opinion of our party, the principle of the draft law. I have to be a little more specific, not for the Members who are in the Chamber who have participated in the standing committee, and after a number of days of discussion we have had an opinion on exactly what the regulations of the draft law contain, but for the one who does not have an eye on it, who first listens to the matter. We must tell him that, with the increase in own resources decided by the European Union at last after years, these funds are increased for the purpose of finding the funds on the basis of which each country suffers from the pandemic, each Member State, will be financed by the Recovery Fund. That is the purpose. The purpose is specific. There are three ways in principle provided for by the decision of the Council of the European Union, which has been produced by the opinion of the European Parliament, and I only mention them with their titles. First of all, the ceilings on own resources are being increased, which we have sought - and I say again - as a party organisation since the '80s, and we are obviously positive about that. In fact, in my question to Mr Stavoura, it was his answer that the reason for every single euro given by the Hellenic Republic, the Greek citizen, in the European Union, as part of its own resources, while producing a profit of EUR 2.9, will now be a benefit of EUR 4.6. This reason demonstrates and underlines in concrete terms what the benefit to the Hellenic Republic, for the citizens of this policy, is. Second way of raising funds from the Union: the right granted to the European Commission to borrow from the very large funds to produce the transfers to be produced under the Recovery Fund. Thirdly, a new own resource of the European Union is the financial burden on non-recycled plastics produced by each country as a waste, where a comparative benefit will be produced, not a profit - it is not the influx of money in Greece of EUR 33 million. Here, then, the reasons why the Change Movement, the PASOK, says yes, because it traditionally believed it and because now it does, without making micropolitical policies back, that no one understands exactly what it says and what its choices mean. But here, I need to add. Mr President-in-Office, we ask, as a party, for your plan to absorb the resources of the Recovery Fund. Because the European Union has decided on the three areas, health, renewable energy, digital technology. It has set the limits of the commitment to specific programmes. It has set time limits by the end of 2026 to make its lending in order to finance the European Union's programmes. In addition to 2026, we are talking about refinancing, not new funding. But in addition to what we have, because they are decisions by the European Union, the country does not have, they do not have the parties, the government's plan to absorb resources. He has sent something to the European Commission that we do not know, do not know the parties, do not know about. So there is a serious problem here. As is the time for criticism - a serious problem exists in the way you legislate. And I don't generally talk. I'm talking about this draft law. We had a second reading yesterday. We didn't have what to say. All parties have said that. You do not really understand what the second reading means. Because PASOK has made this arrangement, second reading means that from dialogue, from what has come to mind in the government, it brings changes, it brings amendments and second reading has new material. That is why I remember over the last few years - I cannot say that I will be precise as far as I am concerned - we did not meet immediately after the debate has been concluded. We were going a few days away to study the material. Not only was there no material, but three or four amendments came today. Why wouldn't they have come yesterday? I don't understand that. This only proves sloppy, and of course, as usual we are right, the deterioration of Parliament. What conversation didn't happen? Mr. Karaguni, I did not understand you in your speech today. Maybe it's my fault I didn't notice exactly what you were saying. But they realized you're saying it's not time for us to look back. In the 2015 recapitalisation? Oh, no. Okay. Because I believe that this draft law gives an opportunity to discuss when we talk about the Financial Stability Fund, when we talk about the country's credit institutions. Now we need to see what happened in 2015. And no one has been mentioned. We as a party insist on this. You say it because your Chief is the Minister of Finance in the first half of 2015. You think he did well, we believe the opposite. And I say, my dear colleague, that for the 2015 recapitalisation, which is the derivative of the six-month period Tsipras - Varoufakis - I repeat the derivatives of Tsipras - Varoufakis - damage occurred. We, because we are serious, do not say as a loss the difference of 42 billion sums paid by the CFSF to recapitalise the banks. In this connection I asked Mr Verkykio on behalf of the CFSF what the own resources are now, what the funds that the CFSF has now and told me 5 billion. He bought 42 billion and has 5 billion. I am not a populist to say that 37 billion were lost by that recapitalisation. Oh, no. Because I also know the previous recapitalisation, I know how things went in the year 2013-2014. I also know that after 2016 you cannot calculate any loss of shares on the basis of recapitalisation. There are other facts involved. But we limit it in 2015 and 2016. And by limiting it there for the State, we say that the table of the Financial Stability Fund itself is embodied. In 2014, it had 11,622 billion, its own resources decreased by 2,384 billion from the shares it invested in 2015 and even below 1,753 billion in 2016. We lost 10 billion. The banks of the country lost 10 billion. And I just said that, asking the Bank of Greece, I think, and the CFI how much the private people have lost, I didn't get an answer. But there are people, private investors who have suffered huge damage in 2014 and 2015. And here I have to say the following to be recorded in the Minutes, to be present, to have heard at least about them, the damage of existing shares, before the recapitalisation for 2015. There was no need. The bodies that SYRIZA had placed in the bank control in June 2015 said everything was going well, that the course is not what eventually evolved and that resulted in us at the end, with referendums and inconvenience, elections and everything that happened unnecessarily. The loss of existing shareholders, therefore, when they abolished their right to preference - because their right to preference was abolished - stems from the increase in shares, many shares with a lower issue price. Anyone who had shares, who has lost the right to preference is put out, has damage. He's got huge damage. And the greater damage the existing shares have as much as they could correspond to the profit of those who go in after. Let's go to the people who came in later. What happened to those who came in later? They just got what happened to the public. Damaged. Cases are in the courts and, for formal reasons, those lost, i.e. the CFSF is not a state but a company, and its acts, its decisions are not enforceable administrative acts. Is that what we're concerned with? Have we appreciated them? Are we considering them? Do we understand who populism is finally hitting? It hits whoever wants to protect, it's supposed to be, the citizen, who he's supposed to speak for. The recapitalisation, in my eyes, is the best example to tell the citizens that whoever speaks very much for you, promising various things that can't be done, eventually hurts you. Behold! The State lost 10 billion, the loss of private investors has not been estimated. Self-proportional asset is the right to preference that has been deducted from private investors and their disasters are specific. The courts deal with them, the courts assess them, but I repeat the cases are lost for other reasons, not for the substance of this case, which is their damage. Now, to conclude, Mr President, with regard to the amendments I may be tabling later. I can't make it. I will speak on the second part of the draft law, which was the occasion of having with the SYRIZA rapporteur yesterday in committee a speech and a copy. I won't repeat it. I don't care. My positions are clear and do not accept the slightest doubt. One agrees, one disagrees, but one understands what I'm saying. For the second part concerning credit institutions and the CFS, I am neither a specialist nor any Member of Parliament must be a chemical, mathematical, banking officer. We all have a specialty in our science and from there on in our political experience. However, without accepting everything that the European Central Bank says, I read what it says to us. Because there is an opinion here on the draft law of the European Central Bank and we all have it in the material we are asking for. As we have the report from the Scientific Office of the Parliament. I would ask the Ministers' colleagues to see its remarks on Article 6, in which we shall vote'residents'. But to see the comments made by the Scientific Agency. Now, what does the Central Bank say? The Central Bank, in assessing this second part of the draft law, makes three key observations, in my humble opinion. Firstly, it states that the draft law has a positive sign to the extent that it allows the Financial Stability Fund to invest not in banks, in shares, in a capital increase, not in order to redeem the bank, not in order to support the national economy, but in order to invest itself. Therefore, the specific issue that regulates provisions of the draft law is positive. Secondly, it welcomes the flexibility - I replicate here, I do not convey in my own words the content of the opinion - provided to the fund to reduce its holdings through capital increases and, at the same time, enables him to participate in a distribution of unsettled shares or other ownership securities resulting therefrom. Finally, he considers that the draft law will help banks, by its regulations, to deal with problems and diseases that come from behind, from the time of the memorials, but also from the context of the dramatic pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, these are the thoughts of the Change Movement. With these thoughts we were critically placed, as far as we could, and we assessed the draft law, and with these thoughts I declare that we will vote, without prejudice to Article 6. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u8	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou will now take the floor from the Communist Party of Greece. In closing with the special speakers, Parliamentary spokesman from Mera25, Mr Gregoriadis, and from what I was informed by Mr Heta, the President of Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, as well as by the special speakers. Then we'll be on the speaker list. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u9	The government in its authoritarian charge has no end. The suppression continues with intensity. This is what he did this morning at the Aristotle University, creating a climate of police rule throughout Thessaloniki and, indeed, banning journalists from entering. Once again your response to problems is repression. What did the students ask for? For over a year, universities have been closed. So they're asking to be students again. And how do you answer? With violence and repression, at a time when the students had already announced from the previous days that this morning the occupation expires. So what did you do? Demonstration of force. But the climate of terrorism will not pass. We call for all measures to be taken to ensure the safe opening of universities and, at the same time, for all applicants to be released. As regards, now, the draft law, this refers to the European Union's own resources and to amendments to the Financial Stability Fund. And we have a clear article on the extension of special management. We don't know which companies it's about. Of course, it's an bankruptcy procedure. With own resources, new forms of indirect taxation are being created against people's incomes on the pretext of alleviating national contributions from state budgets so that there is more budgetary space left in the Member States to support capital and, at the same time, to increase the European Union's budget by bleeding people's incomes with indirect taxation, which, however, is not so obvious to the people. However, the debate between the Member States began with tension and opposition both to the establishment of the Recovery Fund and to the multiannual financial framework, triggering opposition within it. What, then, is institutionalized? Reductions in contributions from gross domestic income are being introduced in the multi-annuals of Austria, the Netherlands, Germany and Sweden - and this was the compromise between the Session - and the limit of own resources to 1.4% of GDP. A new own contribution from Member States to the quantities of non-recycled plastic packaging waste is introduced. A proportion of the income from auctions of the polluter trading system, as well as of digital transactions, from financial transactions and from cross-border carbon taxes, is also established by the application of the common consolidated corporate tax base in the European Union. What are you trying to do? Dress up this new tax on workers with a pro-environmental enclosure, as an incentive, that is, to reduce pollutants. You do not, however, explain why, since the Member States will pursue the environmental measures to reduce and zero these taxes, these taxes will remain after 2058, which will be the repayment of the loan, that is to say, forever. It is like Article 219 that you have passed, which tramples the protected areas of NATURA. The same resources are, therefore, essentially, the state's indirect taxes and the groups will charge them to the people, as was the case with the plastic bags. The interest in the common consolidated corporate tax base is linked to the competition of groups and, in particular, to the US and China, but also to the taxation of large European groups with subsidiaries in the various Member States. The own resources are anti-grassroots taxes which will be borne by the people's labour income and the repayment of 750 billion, which the European Union is lending for the Recovery Fund, which, of course, will unravel monopolistic groups. And the workers will pay the bill! Why are these measures taken? Because the need for Community support through strong state intervention in the economies of the Member States was intensified prior to the emergence of the pandemic under the slowing down pressure on growth in the Eurozone. They noted the size of over-capacitated capital that cannot be invested at a satisfactory rate of profit and identified forms of the problem, such as the large European banking group report to the debt-sharing countries and the'red' loans. There was pressure on these measures and, of course, there were objections for three reasons. Firstly, there was provision for the great depth of the crisis and the difficulty of rapid recovery in the European Union. Secondly, the competition and threats of sanctions in the European Union's economic war with the United States and China have increased, following the Brexit. Thirdly, because of the unequal manifestation of the crisis in the Member States and the requirement of highly indebted countries of the South to secure cheap lending with the direct support of the European Union's high prudential credit rating. Thus, for the first time, the European Union is moving towards joint lending to provide grants to Member States, which is a step in deepening the unification of the European Union, strengthening the single mechanisms for implementing uniform reactive guidelines to the detriment of the peoples, but also paying back the joint loan of the Recovery Fund. It will be accompanied by new single taxes and strict compliance with the budgetary policy framework. As far as supervision is concerned, and especially for Greece, it will be multiple. Next to the European Semester, in the Memorandum of Understandings and Dose Approvals by Eurogroup, in the Commission's supervision of the correct absorption of the new ESDP, a mechanism will be added to the continuous evaluation of the Reform Programme and the Government's commitments with the National Recovery Plan. He will decide whether to release or freeze the funds for the infamous subsidies. Enhanced Community supervision is a multi-support for the promotion of domestic capital objectives, as is available in the BSE plans, the Bank of Greece and the Government. There is full coverage and involvement of the European Union and of the bourgeoisie in promoting these unpopular restructurings and, of course, Community supervision helps each government to speak of external pressure for the implementation of anti-grassroots measures. Yet there is agreement between you and the camps of all the European Union's urban governments on what will finally be the 'victims' to implement the recovery plans for capital gains. New burdens will be added to employed and self-employed people, who are already suffering from the anti-popular policy of a duration and may be presented as a great opportunity for Greece and as a historic step towards a strong united Europe. The new coarse Community money is to regain the profitability of monopolies alone, and they must celebrate. The sacrifices of employees and self-employed will continue on the altar of restarting the capitalist economy. All the elements of the lupus alliance agree to attack workers under the heading ‘Promoting Reform’. That's why workers mustn't step on her. The repayment from the people of new loans will be added to Greece's already superfluous lending by demolition of the remaining insurance rights, by promoting private insurance and the purely capitalisation system, which converts supplementary pension into an individual investment product, by extending flexible working relationships, rotating labour and financing of employers, even by providing incentives to increase some viable companies that will increase the competitive pressure that will result in increased packages for thousands of small businesses and self-employed people. As far as the Financial Stability Fund is concerned, it becomes a privileged joint shareholder. This means that it will participate in increasing equity with private investors in order to ensure the sustainability of the financial system and to proceed with the disinvestment, i.e. further privatisation of the banks. In these games you've both played, New Democracy and SYRIZA, all these years. The HFSF was created in 2010 to support the domestic banking system and provided the capital support for recapitalisation purposes. However, from all the recapitalisations made, the state budget, i.e. the wild taxpayer people, lost. Why? For the purposes of the banks, you are interested, not in the needs of the working class and the people's classes, which fuel the budget. The government's strategy is to remove the public from the banks by financing them. The Fund will be able to operate as a private investor and not as a State mechanism, i.e. remove the obstacles that existed in order for the Fund to contribute to the disinvestment. This is a great step towards clearing the banks out of the weights, i.e. red loans, which reach 35.8% of the total bank financing, and this is expected to grow as long as there is a suspension regime of 21 billion. All of this in order to stimulate bank financing in business groups on a background basis and the procedures for banking union, setting up a carpet for accelerating auctions in people's homes and thousands of professionals, i.e. unpopular restructuring that marks Kaidas for tens of thousands of professionals and self-employed. Of course, the opening of the market for red loans with a greater involvement in funds and 'curtains'. This will achieve the objective of the one-digit number for red loans. Of course, the recapitalisation will issue new shares at a low price in order to attract investment interest. This means a great reduction in the rights of its former shareholders. Finally, deinvestment is detrimental to the Financial Stability Fund. It is almost certain that it will suffer damage, as in the case of Piraeus Bank. However, the exercise of criminal prosecution for infidelity is only by the approval of the Fund itself, i.e. immunity. These are, of course, the requirements of the European Semester Report on the Greek economy. They focus on excessive macroeconomic imbalances related to high public and external debt, the public reserve of non-performing loans. And all of this in conditions of high unemployment, low productivity growth and under-enthusiastic investment activity. In these circumstances you are promoting the stimulation of productivity. How? With new anti-government measures, i.e. new suffering and problems for the people's layers. Therefore, the measures and plans of the European Union and governments want through these changes to load new burdens on the back of the working class and the people's layers to ensure the profitability of monopolies in conditions of economic capitalist crisis. We say: no illusions! Workers must not be trapped once again in waiting for salvation from the billions of the European Union or in choosing the most competent manager between New Democracy and SYRIZA to exploit them. The Group of the European People's Party (Christian Democrats) has tabled a proposal for a law on the relief of the city and the countryside from the consequences of the crisis and the management of the pandemic. It contains provisions for their relief due to the sharp decrease in their incomes and the huge accumulation of debts in insurance funds, but also banks, providing for the drastic reduction in these debts. These measures are urgently necessary, since the vast majority of the self-employed have been severely affected by the economic capitalist crisis and by the restrictive measures taken by the Government to deal with the pandemic. Inhibitors of debt payments accumulate huge amounts that are converted into debts that cannot be repaid, leading thousands of self-employed and poor farmers and farmers literally despair. You're only single in government repression and fear. But it won't pass. In the face of your anti-popular policy, you will continue to find the reaction of the people and youth. We are also voting against your policy and this bill. We will talk about the amendments in secondary. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u10	The reason is the special speaker from the Greek Solution, Mr. Villardos Vassiliou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. History is written by the elections. We have some suggestions about what we will say in the past and a ban on petitions by the rapporteur of the New Democracy who started his speech colossally, applying exactly the opposite. What else are we gonna hear? On the other hand, we have new measures by the Prime Minister, with loans, which will make the deficit and debt even higher, which we consider to be an incredible populism, pre-electionist, probably. However, the 24 or 27 billion provided in 2020 was all with borrowers, while only the 2.7 billion of SURE came from the European Union and it is also a loan. Now, as we have said in committee, the government has tabled a bill with two parts that are completely inconsistent with each other. The first part concerns the ratification of the European Union's multi-advertised ‘rehabilitated recovery package’ contract with an insufficient amount, at least in the case of Greece, which has been immersed in one of the worst rises compared with the other European countries, despite the successive adjustments made by ELSTAT which reminds of creative accounting and the well-known ‘grek statistics’. In order to be specific, in the example of the first quarter of 2020, ELSTAT announced in June a recession of 0.09%, in September a recession of 0.06%, in December a growth of 0.4% and a recent lower growth of 0.1%. All this for the first quarter, while for the rest something similar. How, then, can one consider the figures reliable, such as the overall recession of 2000 at 8.2%, despite the Minister's forecasts at 10.5%? It can't be. The second part regulates the issues of the capital increase of the CFS which, as we know, along with the TSED and the EBRD, belongs to the supranationals, to which all our assets have been transferred, recalling that it can have been established by SYRIZA in 2016, but it was a prerequisite for the third memorandum signed by all three parties of the "terrorism troika". The Financial Stability Fund, the HFSF, controls the State’s shares in leftover banks that have cost Greek taxpayers more than EUR 60 billion together with the deferred tax, and will possibly cost even more than the two ‘HARAKLIS’ projects and the hive down that Alpha Bank has already started. The current regulation, however, is the answer to the refusal of the capital increase proposed by the major shareholder of Piraeus Bank, while it is presented as a state-run operation, but it is rather a question of expropriating it from the FSC of foreigners. In this regard, the Government has to explain why, as a defender of the private initiative, it has not chosen to increase capital on the part of a world-famous investor, how much less so far, since it has not affected the sale of so many other public companies, such as TRAINOSE to the Italians for 40m euros and with a premium of 750m - that is, they have given us 40m and the trains - of the fourteen airports to the Germans with the known scandalous contract, etc. However, we could never vote in favour of a law that supports the status of the supranational government especially in the banking sector. With regard to Part One, Directive 2020/2053 of the European Union, which lays down rules on the allocation of own resources in the Union to ensure the financing of its annual budget, is hereby ratified as one Article. As already mentioned in point 4, the European Union's finances have been problematic since 2017, which means that this package is, in fact, an opportunity to strengthen its revenues especially after the Brexit. In relation to point 14, our country's authorisation to the European Union is given to be able to borrow up to EUR 750 billion for all European Union countries at 2018 prices to finance the Recovery Fund. Of these 390 billion will be allocated to grants and 360 billion to loans, and it must be noted here that the 750 billion for all the countries of the European Union is lower than the package of nearly 1.2 trillion with which Germany has only supported its economy. Seven hundred and fifty billion for all the countries, from which it will take the same place, and only 1,200 billion for its own, almost double, which means that it will soon be able to buy everyone out, this time with economic weapons in Europe instead of military weapons, in simple words that it will win the economic war. To have a more comprehensive picture now, the total package announced for the rescue of Europe of EUR 2.8 trillion seems great until it is analysed in its individual components. Before that, however, we will be starting from the fact that Germany has managed to significantly reduce all the other European programmes to some extent to cover the funds of the Reconstruction Fund, and it has also made the reduction of subsidies of 390 billion from 500 billion previously with the corresponding increase in loans. In addition, it abolished certain financial instruments, including the proposed funding for third countries, while changing the allocation method between countries through its most important tool, the facilitation of RRF recovery and resilience. On the basis of the study we are going to present in the Minutes, only three countries will receive more subsidies from the RRF, Germany by 20.4 billion, France by 12.4 billion and Italy by 5 billion. All the other countries will get less. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] As far as the total package of 2.8 trillion is concerned, I would like to say: Firstly, the 1,074 trillion relate to the normal budget for the years 2021-2027, known as the ESDP, after the previous year of 2014-2020 has been completed. This amount is lower than the previous of the 1,346 trillion proposed in 2018, while Greece will receive about 20 billion. Secondly, 336,5 billion concerns the common agricultural policy, the CAP, too, for the years 2021-2027, which has been reduced by EUR 46 billion. This is where Greece will only get 20 billion. Thirdly, the 330 billion will be allocated to the financing of cohesion, the aim of which is to put the countries and regions of the European Union on a more equal footing with the additional coverage of EUR 47.5 billion in a new programme which is part of the Reconstruction Fund, REACT - EU. Fourthly, 30% of the full budget package will be allocated to climate change, and a new package will be funded to support polluting areas and their fair transition to cleaner industries, Just Translation - EU. Unfortunately, however, this amount has fallen significantly to 17.5 billion from 30 billion, while Greece will receive only 750 million from 1,7 billion previously considered, substantiating the government's mistake in promoting the end of lignite in 2022, when Germany for 2038, while with the 750 million it cannot support the areas it condemns the abolition of lignite. Fifthly, there will be less money available for health than in the past, just 8 billion, while another programme, the 'Rescue', which is used to store medical equipment and other primary supplies, will receive a total of 3 billion. The European Social Fund, the ERASMUS Programme, Horizon Europe research, the support of migration and the EU Investment Fund will also receive less money. Finally, since Next Generation EU's 750 billion, 360 billion are loans, as we have said, while subsidies have been reduced to 390 billion. The funds will only be disbursed when the States have reliably substantiated their progress in accordance with the objectives of the European Union. In any case, the money from the Reconstruction Fund, 750 billion, is subject to the so-called European semester, i.e. the Commission's financial policy control body. In particular, the European Semester called in the past for various Member States to implement extreme neoliberal reforms, such as pension cuts, the abolition of collective agreements, the privatisation of health, water, electricity, etc. Today, however, the North countries are insisting on even more reforms, having imposed, in exchange for subsidies, an emergency braking mechanism, that is to say, a brake when one country expresses concerns about the national reconstruction plan for another. In such a case, where Greece, for example, fails to convince the Netherlands of the success of its projects, the disbursements of subsidies are being stopped, in other words, as a memorandum, until the Council has reconvened it, and the majority decision is taken. In our question, however, how much money will be left in Greece from 19.4 billion subsidies, i.e. if Greece's increased participation in the repayment of 750 billion to be borrowed by the European Union, the Minister did not respond reasonably, since it will be about half. He tried to mislead the committee in some way, claiming that the overall new package for Greece is 71.9 billion, which is certainly not the case, since the 20 billion were the common NSRPs that existed before and another 20 billion were the CFP, which also existed. These two packages simply coincided with the Recovery Fund. It's a coincidence. The 12.5 billion are loans, which did not respond at the rate and on which terms they will be granted, while only 19.4 billion are subsidies. Furthermore, we did not answer many of our questions concerning the second part of the bill, such as why the Government did not choose the capital of Piraeus from its current private shareholders, how will the CFS cope with the increase of Piraeus's capital, when it produces losses, while it has little capital, as we put it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] How will the CFSF increase its capital and from whom, since it has only 5 billion and 2020 was injurious, as well as how will Greece recover its money when the CFSF leaves the banks, as the Minister said? The United States did something like this, stalled, i.e. banks in crisis in 2008, but then privatised them with profit, without literally burning their citizens' money, as in Greece. We have, however, assured the Government that our availability is well-qualified, while we are trying to be constructive for the benefit of our country, although we have different political perceptions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We, the Greek Solution, are in favour of the purely free market and not of the neoliberal one that promotes private monopolies, nor of the socialist, of course, which supports state monopolies. We are generally against both the monopolies and the oligopolises, in favour of the middle class and not the oligarchy. Because, now, in the committee, a debate was held on the PSI crime, we were impressed by the Minister's statement that 125 billion debts were cancelled at the time, recalling that Mr Venizelos then, in 2012, had reported 180 billion. The truth is that it was only about 51.3 billion euros, where to find it one doesn't need to know financially, but only arithmetic. Quite simply, it must remove from the public debt of 31 December 2012 the equivalent of 31 December 2011, where it will easily find out, by depositing the corresponding graph in the Minutes, as it seems here, that it was only about 51.3 billion, many of which were from our own banks, from our own insurance funds and from our own private bond holders. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The same is true of a study by two German teachers - there are many good Germans - in relation to the scandal of where the money of the three loan contracts was brought. It was, indeed, a scandal. It appears on pages 13, 14. We are also tabling it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Was it really worth EUR 51.3 billion to mortgage everything for a hundred years, to be imposed on us four memoranda, with the fifth before the gates, to be our bonds under English law, to plunder and not to participate since the QE of the European Central Bank, as well as to have been converted into a occupied country? This is a crime that our children will never forgive us, especially our five hundred thousand young people who left because they could not survive in their homeland. But even if we take the 180 billion or 125 billion jobs as a case, what is the point of deleting part of the debt of a banked country when what remains is bankrupt, looted and unable to develop? It is not only public debt but also the'red' private ones, as well as the general fate of our economy and our society. We, however, have proposed a committee of inquiry for the period 2010-2015 from Parliament, with which, unfortunately, no party has so far agreed. We have proposed, among other things, that we investigate the responsibilities of the European Central Bank in closing the banks in 2015. It was not just our responsibility, it was also the European Central Bank. It's impossible for a central bank to close the banks when there's nothing else.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u12	Mr. Villardo, close up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u13	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, I would like to say that what was most concerned with us were the Bank of Greece's responses at the hearing of the bodies, and especially with regard to our question, about what impact a financial crisis will have on banks and thus on the CFSF, with data on non-viable and growing debts, as well as the huge 2020 deficits and obviously 2021. We also asked whether it was right for the banks to be pressed at this time to reduce their'red' loans, burning funds that they do not have. We were generally told that we were right, but it is their last chance before the Treaties changed in Europe. That's very worrying. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of the other articles, we will only make a brief reference to two, because there is no time and so that we do not repeat what we have said to the Commission. By Article 6, the irresponsibleness of the CFSF, its organs and executives is essentially introduced, since the disposal of the shares of the credit institutions that it holds in particular investors or in a group of investors, even at degrading prices, i.e. even when it sells them, is considered by today's law...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u14	Come on, Mr. Villardo. You've exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u15	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u16	You've said that five times. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u17	In a minute. In addition, the criminal prosecution of the crimes provided for will require approval. I mean, it won't be possible for the prosecutor to intervene on his own initiative. This is a provocatively privileged treatment, which we consider to be totally unacceptable. More generally, however, the impression of "washing" of the old or other bank's shareholders and shareholders, such as known oligarchs, is given how much more so when crimes have been committed with the Cypriot banks, with the Agricultural Bank, etc. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u18	We're finishing the cycle of special speakers with Mr. Kritonas Arsenis from Mera25. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Members and MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the government, are today discussing a bill which legalises the bill against the public, the damage to the public, as long as public property is reduced. Deinvestment is the highest term in the bill. Immunity is also given to those who decide and sign decisions leading to the damage of the public. But it is also a hypocrisy bill, which increases our contributions to the European Union when we do not recycle. However, through the policies of this government to privatise waste, for guaranteed quantities, with over-accounted, over-burdened private works, through PPPs, through the legalisation of town-based illegal wastewater stations and the PPAs, and in particular through the burning of waste, the Government guarantees that we will not recycle. The deinvestment, to which I have referred, puts the reduction of public property as a top objective within the framework of the Financial Stability Fund. In other words, we can do damage to public finances, as long as the property is reduced. To understand it, this is the target of lenders. This is precisely the proof that the memorials continue, the proof that you are preparing for the most important fifth memorial. But to understand, the lenders want to repay their loan, pay off the debt as unsustainable as it is, or reduce the public's assets? Because you have so far told us that the reduction in public property is being done to repay the loans. Now we see that the reduction of public property is a primary, self-evident purpose regardless of whether it leads to public revenue or damage. That's what your bill says. And all this started in October 2015 with the signature SYRIZA, when the SYRIZA government gave EUR 2 billion to Piraeus, committing itself to three conditions. The interest rate would be forbidden to repay from Piraeus, 8%, so that Piraeus could never repay them. Since it did not pay them off, the public would buy shares at a certain price, EUR 6, when today they are bought at EUR 1. At a price of six times the actual price, these shares were purchased, it is six times the damage to the public and, of course, it should in no way be possible for the administration of Piraeus to take over the State. Thus, although today it has reached over 61% of Piraeus shares, these shares are not represented, they are not converted into votes at the general meeting. The public at this rate does not have the administration of Piraeus. What is being voted today gives immunity to the members of the Financial Stability Fund, immunity to those decisions that cause harm to the public. You are giving immunity together with something else: the official legitimacy of the fact that it is possible for the public to strengthen, subsidise businesses. This subsidy may be intact, but under no circumstances should this subsidy lead to an increase in public property, and there is no problem, as you are saying, that the consideration it will receive will be of less economic value, that is, there will be damage to the public. To make such decisions you are giving them immunity, and even this immunity is unconstitutional. You know that it is contrary to the articles of the Constitution. But you put something too much - you will allow me to say - funny. There is no real immunity you say, because it can be self-cleared by the Board of Directors of the Financial Stability Fund, with the retired Europeans appointed there. He'll be able to self-clean this fund. There's no problem! We have him full, blind trust, so far beyond the trust we have in justice. Going to recycling, the government is going through today with this bill to make a contribution to the European Union's budget with what we are doing, and it even costs a cost to Greece around EUR 33 million. Extremely underestimated cost. And why is this extreme underestimation so easily going through this measure? Because if we were to discuss this measure seriously, you would have to change a policy on waste. You should stop privatising waste. You should stop burning waste. You should stop all these charismatic decisions you make in companies. So we are obviously underestimating this cost for the budget so that you do not take the impact on your policy. Let's be clear. This is a measure that has passed in Europe for your own government. We are the only country in Europe with such tragic waste management. The only country in Europe that, while not doing well in recycling, makes decisions and locks us in a future without recycling. How else can we explain the privatisation of waste? For example, the Peloponnese PPP signed by SYRIZA made it your flag. The European Commission has refused to finance it and you have withdrawn your request for funding by yourself after all, talking about a over-coordinated, over-dimensional project, in fact about State aid to a private company. This work, instead of embarrassing and getting it back, to end the contract, to sign it, and thereby damage to the public, carbon the way you handle recycling and waste everywhere. In other words, the National Waste Management Plan, the ECHR, has been implemented. At the same time, you are legitimate about the waste transhipment stations which are compressing waste in a way that is impossible after the sorting plants - what you want to fund within the PPPs - to make elementary recycling. Let's remind you these sorting factories are already not recycled. Already, we know that few percentages of recycled plastics are recycled, few percentages of the recycled articles are recycled, recovered at these factories on the basis of TERNA data for the continent that have been announced in relevant conferences and have been brought to the House several times. You bring the combustion without recycling. It locks us in a future without recycling. With guaranteed quantities you create a triple dystopia. When we do more recycling, we'll pay clauses to the individuals you give them waste management. When we do not make recycling, we will pay fines to the European Commission for breaching the recycling targets, and now we will also pay extra clauses through our contribution to the budget. This is the dystopia to which you lead us. You are locking us in every decision you make. Let's go to the big debate on the recession. Here, in fact, we have a government that becomes a Horseman 2, a government that does not hesitate to revise the GDP figures of the last decade, through the controlled ELSTAT, in order to demonstrate that it is just below 10% of the public deficit, even if this makes non-viable public debt even less sustainable, even though falling by 4 billion GDP, the GDP and debt ratio is increasing. You don't care anything. And to be clear, to reach these numbers, you also use negative deflation. As if no citizen experienced a reduction in the price of basic goods. Depression was only related to luxury goods and reduced costs in pockets very few. But the impressive thing is not only that you have reduced GDP. The representative of the Bank of Greece told us at the hearing that GDP figures and statistics are related to the image of the truth, not to what is convenient. And if debt increases, what to do, the debt increases. Let us see, really, what numbers you have reduced to the 2018 GDP. You had some improved numbers for 2018. Let's say you had for 2017, for 2016, in 2015, in 2014. You also had for 2013? Did you have one for 2012? Did you have any new numbers now in 2021? Did you have 2021 new figures for 2011? Did you have 2021 new figures for 2010? Repeat your story when Mr. Horsescoufs could have room for bigger deficits in his own governance, he revised GDP and proved throughout Europe on his own invention that we entered with fraud. You repeat your story. But let us go to Mr Mitsotakis' announcements today for the first three repayable advances. Excellent measure. We asked you every time. I wish you hadn't had to see your popular curse by violence against families who came out in the park of Nea Smyrna with masks, distances and all the measures at the right time to take a breath. You work police violence and society has reached the limit. He's got you now. But go ahead with payment suspensions. Do you think that people will be able to cope with tax obligations and insurance contributions once the quarantine is finished? Where will they find the money to cover these contributions? Obviously, you need to delete them. We also resurrect - and we will submit every day for as long as necessary, in every bill - our view on the deletion of the bankruptcy code that you are putting into effect. You have legislated the poverty in the midst of this economic situation of Greek households, the poverty and bankruptcy of every family, every one who owes 30,000 euros, who has guaranteed a loan of 30,000 euros, which has inherited or inherited a borrower with a debt of 30,000 euros, by confiscation of the property. When someone enters the auction and is fruitless for three consecutive times, you build the property without giving a single euro in his pocket, without losing a single euro. And all this, to force people to settle with the lenders on a platform where they will provide up-to-date information, they will ask for a compromise with a proposal. You have decided that lenders do not need to come on a counter-proposal or even respond, but lenders unilaterally can start bankrupt as if they were companies. These are the laws you put into effect now and all the others are crocodile tears. You want business to be closed, you want business to be concentrated in a few. You've announced it before and again. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] I'm closing up with a question to KINAL. Referred to in an exam only for 2015. Was it not so long since Karamanlis ruled that it was the one that led to the debt crisis? What changed and gave New Democracy forgiveness? What has changed and does not agree with the proposal made by Mera25 to open the debt file from the relocation to the present day? Ladies and gentlemen, Members of Parliament and Members of Parliament, it is clear that we are voting against this bill. It's a bill that legalises the bracelet, it's a bill that legalizes extreme hypocrisy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. I see the President of the Greek Solution. Mr President, you should normally take the floor. Mr Gregoriadis, the Parliamentary spokesperson of Mera25, has asked, however, to propose, if you agree, because he wants to go to the Conference of Presidents. If you agree, we give him the floor and then you have the floor. Otherwise, you have every right to take the floor first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u21	Mr President, I agree that my colleague will be the lead one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u22	You agree. Good. Thank you very much. Mr. Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. After thanking, as I owe, of course, the dear President of the Greek Solution, Mr Velopoulos, I must also publicly observe that I wonder which other political leader would do that. Thank you, Mr. Velopoulos. Ladies and gentlemen, have you noticed that our Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, has been running for almost a year with proclamations? Have you noticed? He's running with proclamations. It is not customary to remind everyone of this in parliamentary democracies. It's more a hegemony, you'd say, trend. And be careful, I want to be specific. Recently, evil has been done. Mr. Mitsotakis almost every week takes a lecture on everything. It is thus addressed to the Greek citizens as a rule. In parliamentary democracy, the Prime Minister of a country is addressed to the representatives of the people, not every week to the people, and only sends proclamations to specialists, in so-called exceptional cases. And, of course, the extra cases, the experts aren't nearly every week. Yesterday, the last prime minister's order was announced immediately after the special guard was injured. There is no doubt at all that we all represent the Greek people in this Chamber are against all kinds of violence from so much to the absolute state of our country over a year ago to anyone who has been in the opposite political position from this point of view. We are therefore opposed to the violence that he found yesterday in this unfortunate special guard, such as, of course, in the same way and in the violence that he found yesterday, the student who was screaming, pain, and with a personal inspiration and the purchase of a helmet of iron, folding him by the other special guard. We're against all violence from wherever it comes. I would remind you, however, that yesterday our Prime Minister's letter was announced immediately after the special guard's injury. If at the end of the day the way your Prime Minister governs, the Prime Minister of historian history is that of the proclamations, why did he not issue a complaint three days ago for the two and a half minutes of torture of this new child in the square of Nea Smyrna? And finally let Mr. Mitsotakis answer, is he a Prime Minister of all the Greeks or is he a Prime Minister of only the Greek police? Because that's how it turns out. Look, everything we've been following over the past week, not to tell you over the last two weeks, is nothing but the result of our Prime Minister's decision to unnecessarily work on Dimitris Koufantina's hunger strike, which I remind you is the hunger strike and thirst of a barbecue over six and a half years and not a terrorist, ex-terrorist. You'll tell me unrepentant. Of course unrepentant, but once he is in prison for sixteen and a half years, and I would remind you in three months that he is entitled, based on our legal culture, to claim his exit from this prison, it means that this terrorist is not a terrorist, he is a barbecue prisoner, and he will soon be able to demand thanks to Greece's legal framework. So, Mr Mitsotakis, if you can hear me from somewhere, from the outset, he knows very well that you are personally responsible for the injury of all protesters in recent days and, of course, for the unacceptable injury of the Greek special guard. All the videos with the men of the group "DRANS" reveal in the clearest way that in reality men who are the "DRANS" group in their overwhelming majority are nothing but an asterisk - and apologise for the expression - of the para-state fascist criminals of the common criminal law and hooligan, which is why they are disputed with other hooligans. And only the language and phrases they use in these videos are just fabulous altars, no Greek word at all, it's indicative of who they are. Also, an indication of who they are is that all the other police forces in the country, according to their written announcements, do not consider the special guard colleagues, or even if you prefer police officers. The police unions themselves have been denouncing us for a year and a half that the special guards, the "DRANS" team and the "WHO" team are essentially without any education and training. Ladies and gentlemen, if Kyriakos Mitsotakis had not made Greece a police democracy, but she still had to remain a parliamentary democracy, then I would perhaps have told you today about the Finance Ministry's bill, I would have told you about the ratification of the Council's decision of 14 December 2020, which redefined the European Union's own resources, increased in the context of the lending made by the Community for the 750 billion of the Recovery Fund. And I would remind you that as our Secretary of Mera25 has repeatedly pointed out, the Recovery Fund is too much to make the few who are already too rich, while at the same time macroeconomicly, budgetaryly and socially, it is insignificant, recommending the worst combination of efficiency with a common debt without fiscal union. A lot of money, but for a few parasitics, a lot of money, but unfortunately, it's not important. The Recovery Fund will prove - here we are - your next major scandal. The Recovery Fund is for us the previa with which the wolf of the new austerity of your fifth memorandum is wrapped. I would tell you about the Financial Stability Fund and its ability to involve the public through it in increases in the share capital of our banks that have been bankrupt since years, which in practice only concerns Piraeus Bank, see Salas, and even deeper the rampage of the public fund with the gift of two hot billion at Piraeus Bank, from the delay, do not forget, of the Greek people. As a parliamentary representative, as you know, I could escape a little from our point of view and refer to Maria. Do you know which Maria or did you all even forget her in here? Yes, yes, it is the Maria of the summer high school that all the students on her face, the thousands of high school students on the ground. I would talk to you about the small and medium-sized traders of clothing and footwear who are still trying to understand how my child is so harmless that the sardineing of hundreds of thousands of our fellow citizens in public transport and in factories and multinationals, but one customer of their own, one at a time, alone in their shop to get a dress or a pair of shoes is terribly dangerous and will surely perpetuate the spread. They're wondering. Tell them something. I'd say you haven't even hired a single sample to show him to a ERC doctor test tube, permanently I mean. I would tell you what I have been telling you for months now that, as regards the second and third waves of pandemic, you are the first in all of Europe to relics. You don't know when you lock us in, when you open us and why. You don't know which branches you're closing, who you're leaving open and why. I would tell you that you have abandoned the national economy for over a year. I would say to you that the vast majority of Greek workers and among them, of course, and my fellow workers in all arts, are absolutely invisible to you or simply pretend that you do not see them in order to avoid your self-evident debt to support them when. I would tell you that as long as the pandemic holds, it is your duty to support all these invisible people who blame them for working in black and that's why they're invisible. I would tell you, I would tell you, I would tell you, and what I would not tell you about your individual policies, which in our opinion are simply criminal about the future of the Greek people. I would say to you, above all, about the hundred cleaners and cleaners of the services of the Ministry of Finance throughout Greece that have been employed for years in these positions, and that at the end of this month the government intends to throw them on the road like lemon beans, and the majority of them - and you know that - are close to the pension after their contracts expire. Sixty people are, in particular, women, how to find work in a country that doesn't find a job or a man with five degrees of nuclear physics and cosmology? How do they find them? But all this doesn't matter to you. You'll give it to people who will get half of their salary to the new people, because you don't want to reduce the cost, you'll get cleaners, you'll just get cleaners that are in contractors of people who trade human work. They'll take half the payroll and let the young workers who will make these cleaners out to get three hundred. That's who you are. But all this, ladies and gentlemen, I would have the luxury of telling you if we still lived in a normal Greece with a normal parliamentary democracy. In Greece, which you have created, Mr Mitsotakis, I only have one thing to say today, as a Member of the Greek people, to stop the national division immediately. Now stop the incredible police violence and repression. Stop the violence of unnecessarily fines. Stop at last ticking the world, either because it has another political view from you or just because he wants to walk with his children and drink coffee in his neighborhood square. Let me remind you, ladies and gentlemen, how we have reached this point. I'll remind you of it by just hoping that it doesn't end up. The Mitsotakis Government has now been clearly revealed for what two main reasons it was elected twenty months ago, the preparation of the privatisations, whether you prefer privatizations to all public sector outlets and, on the other hand, as quickly as possible, the fulfilment of all the robbery contracts that had pre-election signed both with our country's "institutional" parasitic oligocratics and our outer prisoners, see troika, who are now blocking our economy to recover and to share as its graves the valuables and investment fillets of this desert by young people and scientists. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, well aware of the fact that he would gradually meet the growing popular resistance, took care before he even began selling, to start his administration by integrating the repression, initially in Athens and slowly throughout the country. Let me remind you that he sent thousands of men of MATs who left the island after two days, to our islands to strike the islanders who resisted the creation of new detention camps and congregated people in their country. Let me remind you that she was tolerated beating police officers on benches in Volos. Let me remind you that he uses the forces of MATs, several months now, to systematically beat students, students and protesters in Thessaloniki, Patras and Crete, when of course they don't hit a photojournalist, MPs and journalists, MPs of Mera25 and the Communist Party - you know - Vice Presidents of Parliament in Athens. May I remind you he hasn't been able to arrest the fugitive yet - three months? - Lieutenant of the Golden Dawn Christo Poppa, not to talk about the Bunny, name and thing! [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell is ringing by the honourable Member.]] I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. It is the same Kyriakos Mitsotakis who used the pandemic as an opportunity to expand this crackdown, effectively prohibiting any form of popular reaction, with the completely irresistible scientific pretext of the COVID dispersal -19, which reminds me that, according to the Prime Minister, it does not stick to a thirty-square train wagon in which every 100 people are consuming every morning, it does not stick to the vans of the five people carrying every morning twenty-five in the factories but sticks to the streets when we go out to fight for our fairness. Let us see the course of increasing violence from the beginning of its governance. The first bill that he brought to Parliament abolished university asylum. Nearly immediately he started hitting those who he calls himself an asshole. Immediately afterward, he began to beat the inhabitants, but also those who just happened to go through coffee from Exarches. In a few months he extended this unnecessary violence, again unnecessarily directed against students and students. He then started hitting MPs of the Greek Parliament and trespassing their constitutional rights. In recent weeks, however, we have all been amazed to turn this unnecessary violence against journalists and photographers, precisely to prevent them from doing their job by making this same violence public. And now, a few days ago, the extremity of this extreme violence of the Mitsotakis - Chrysochide government has become openly against ordinary citizens and their children, who just happened to be in the square of Nea Smyrna. It is ridiculous to claim publicly that there is a political force in Greece that can gather over ten thousand people in Nea Smyrna, when the largest anti-population party, SYRIZA, has been unable in the past year to collect two thousand people at the center, and these are dragged by people from all over Lefkanopedi. I believe, with great conviction, that it is barbaric the targeting of the people in the neighborhood who, without any party marks and no political intentions, reacted spontaneously last Sunday to the blind and completely unreasonable violence that swept through their square, and thus treated a few hours later by the so-called 'DRAG' - violence groups - and MATs with even more violence. Mr. Mitsotakis, after all this, the Greek people know that you are personally responsible for the injury of both protesters and citizens and police officers. And also the Greek people know what you do not know, that this violence that has opened the anchor of Aeolos for a year will ultimately be the hub of the beginning of the most dangerous government that our country has known since the post-Migration process. It is clear that Mr Mitsotakis himself is completely unable to realize that he has completely overcome the troubles. He may ignore it himself, ignore these dignified unconscious limits, but the Greek people feel very deeply in his collective subconscious. That's what I have to say to Mr. Mitsotakis. And any ruler who, during our long history, violated them, always had the lawful end he deserved, political collapse and disappearance, but also the preservation of a permanent place in the timeframe of history. Stop, ladies and gentlemen, the Coupling Members - this is an appeal - to the downfall of the barbaric and extreme diversion which your government and your Prime Minister are trying to do. Because, as I told you a few months ago, from this Step back, there will be a gray breakfast that is amazed - as long as you can't imagine how surprised you will be - you will just be arrested with us. And that is because, as the patriotism of the Constitution depends on the patriotism of the Greeks, if you, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, do not immediately demonstrate the patriotism that is necessary for the patriots of the Constitution, I am very afraid that you will very soon have managed to rule our country illegally a new Golden Dawn with a less burdened name. Think about it and decide! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr. Gregoryde. The President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u25	Thank you very much, Mr President. Friends and friends, is it possible for a party such as New Democracy to break the Greek Constitution clearly? I ask you directly now. Is it possible for the New Democracy Members to accept an infringement of the country's constitution? Mr Mettarakis brought an amendment a moment ago. Aren't you embarrassed to sign this? Aren't you ashamed? You tell me, the neo-democratics. You're a few of them, of course. Are the New Democracy's good colleagues not ashamed? I know you're embarrassed. I know the sensitivity of many of you, but when will you violate the self-defense, the self-defense, the freedom of a Member of Parliament say no? Who is Metarakis - and is not here - who sends us an amendment which exempts hotels hosting illegal immigrants from VAT? Why just them, anyway? Other Greek businessmen who pay taxes, don't they have hotels? That's an impulse violation of the Constitution. It states that the amounts paid in accordance with the number of such a provision shall be unaccompanied, irresponsible in the hands of the public or third parties, by way of derogation from any general and special provision, not subject to any reservation, fee or levy and shall not be bound. Who's that? Who's Metarakis after all? And my confrontation is not personal, but what the hell is going on in the Greek Parliament? Explain to me a little. Tell me, Mr. Minister, will Mr. Metarakis be here to explain? So you're a man of business, a man of the private sector. You have a hotel on an island, in Kos, for example. You pay tax. You have it closed, because the government decided because of the pandemic, as you say, not to work. But the person who gives the hotel to the illegal immigrants, not paying VAT, not paying insurance contributions, not paying anything. What the hell? What state did you do? Withdraw her now. Now withdraw the amendment. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I repeat that this is an improper violation of the Constitution. And we also have a Minister of Finance, in the past, next to us. Let's tell us this. Is it possible for a citizen to pay VAT, excise, insurance contributions to his business and a press, because he is hosting illegal immigrants, not to pay? Are we all right? I don't get it. Aren't we ashamed? Let the Minister come here and explain why he brings this shameful amendment to the detriment of the Greek people and Greek entrepreneurs. Because there's unfair competition here, it's over! Do it generalized for all operations. I understand that. Say that all companies won't pay VAT, they won't pay insurance contributions, they won't pay anything. Is it possible for you in the New Democracy to vote for this thing? The rest of you? The rest of the parties? I see my friend, Clonah, who was in a hurry to leave, but he's here. Clonah, didn't you get that? Isn't that injustice, ladies, ladies, that thing? Why should Greek businessmen, who have hotels, VAT, insurance contributions, fees in the municipalities, etc., and these hotels hosting the illegal immigrants, the refugee - as you want to do - pay nothing? And one has a business risk, the businessman, Mr. Brutsi, because you're personally from an island, whether he has customers, if he's got a cigarette. But the other one is surely busy. His boats come in and he puts them in five and four hotels. What are we talking about? What Parliament are we in? In the Parliament of irrationality. In the Parliament of the blatant injustice of each Greek! Let the Greek people now see us, those who see us, that the Greek Government, the New Democracy, is avenged by the Greek hotelier, the Greek who has a small room and rents it, while giving them "irregularity", that is to say, permits not to pay insurance contributions and tax for illegal immigrants. I have another view of life, I have another view of good governance. I have another view of isology, isology, isopoliticalism. We have now reversed the terms. What did we do? Since you were all talking about racism against illegal immigrants, migrants, refugees, we have reached the point, in racism against all Greeks, whether businessmen or people who have no food and who are homeless. We are, however, giving the EUR 500 to the ETSTIA programme or to the HELIOS programme. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Mr. Mitarakis should come here to explain to us who gave the order and took this amendment, and tell us if the Prime Minister of the country knows it, if the Prime Minister of Greece knows it, who speaks with all the hotel owners of Greece, that he comes to him and unfairs all Greek hotel owners, who are closed, pay taxes, pay contributions, pay everything, but he gives the right to others not to pay anything. Honestly, I wonder. For the bill, Minister, you know well, you know the subject. I'll tell you this. You're talking about tax evasion, while you go to the port of Amsterdam - I imagine you've gone - there's some lockers, mailboxes. They're offshore companies. They don't have offices, they're just mailboxes. You put the paperwork in, the mail. In the Netherlands, who is a member of the European Union! If you don't go to Luxembourg, there's a party every night. No coronary, offshore party. Also, if you go to a bank in Germany tomorrow morning in a suitcase with a million euros - because I know Germany quite well, better than many in here - the bank gets it and doesn't ask you where you found it. But if you go 100,000 euros tomorrow morning to Piraeus or the National Bank or Alpha Bank, the AIA will "examine" you. How can the Greek state compete, how can Greek businesses compete with all this tax evasion party in Europe? Not to mention Malta. All betting companies in Malta have offices. It's just luck, too! Cyprus is also a peculiar situation in semi-offshore companies. So I say to you that you are legislating on a Greek people who is neither informed nor aware of what is happening. In fact, I will say it straight away: data are falsely recorded talking about European integration and a whole host of other fairy tales. About the Recovery Fund, just tell me, because you're a lot of economists in here, do you know how much the energy generation from the "forgers" you're setting up in Greece? It's 3%! You have devastated all the mountains and SYRIZA and New Democracy. Even in the Agrafia, which the Turks didn't step on, you put on wind turbines. And I say: do you know how much energy wind turbines produce? They produce 3% on needs. A month ago exactly in Texas, Professor, do you know what happened to them? Texas is an area that has the largest wind parks and photovoltaics, they produce a lot of energy. It's catching ice and snow, minus 5, minus 7. The wind generators were stuck with ice, the photovoltaics filled with snow and people had no current for ten days. Does anyone here think that Greece will stand on the wind parks and photovoltaics to confuse the Germans? I've said it a thousand times. We cannot take money from the Recovery Fund to buy wind turbines from the Germans, who produce them, bring them to Greece and subsidize the wind turbines to denouncing the local oligarch, but also buy them from the Germans. I would think that you have a vision of yourself having a weakness in wind parks and photovoltaics, if you said that we have a heavy industry, that we make wind turbines, export and bring foreign currencies. And the strange thing is - and it bothers me - that you go to the mother Greek land, the land that is fruitful, in the plain of Thessaly, and you put photovoltaics on me, you put iron on the earth that can fruit and give enormous added value. You made the philosopher of the photovoltaics. Each farmer puts 100MW, 10MW, 1MW. The farmer is a farmer, we help him produce wealth, earn money, be rich, and not become a microbiologist of German chauvinistic economic expansion policy. Let's get a little serious in here sometime. You can't run like this, you can't do it. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, tell me what this is all about. Code 3.4 of the Recovery Fund has LGBTQ costs. But how much love is the Prime Minister? I don't know how much he reports, I'm looking for the number and there isn't. Code 3.4 of the Recovery Fund has LGBTQ costs, costs for illegal immigrants. What Recovery Fund is it that we give money to illegal immigrants? How will the economy of Greece recover by giving the gay pride money? I'm not conservative in the sense of backwards. Conservative I'm in ideology. And we're making this clear. But some things don't seem reasonable. We're talking about economy now. If it was another bill, I'd accept it. The Prime Minister said here: "We look after the LGBTQs." You're right. We all take care of each other. We all have to look after everyone, any minority, particularities. But don't make a flag. The flag is one, ladies and gentlemen. I will tell you: the Greek blue flag! Nothing else. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So here I wonder who the New Democracy is. I was very pleased that you accelerated the procedures to corner Mr. Pappas. Good for you! You ran all together to sign - thirty signatures - to put the Kalogerica on the "cadro" and put the Pope under trial. You found thirty signatures for Kalogerica. Why are you giving him now? I could say to the poor man that you're giving him works to sign and say what he's saying. I repeat, if I was a bad option. But, because I'm well-qualified, I'm saying it's random and symptomical to encroach on the Greek people in a false scandal against Scandalology again. Why are you going to an election? Looks like we're going to elections. You need to find scandals. You want to find scandals? I'll tell you, ladies and gentlemen, how you find scandals. Give us twenty signatures to become an examination for Skopje for the assignment of the name Macedonia. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Give us twenty more signatures for the 100 billion lost, as you said, in the first half of SYRIZA. And it's 100 billion, not a few million, as they used to say about Mr. Kalogritsa. New Democracy said it was 100 billion wrongs of SYRIZA. Examination. Give us 20 signatures. Ten, we put it. Consider Skopje. And that's ten signatures we put in. Why don't you do it? Let me tell you why you don't. Because you're going to an election on the basis of Scandinavian and so-called argument about the police, about the incidents, about the occupations, about the Kalogerica thing. You will go with them in elections, and when you collide, you will forget the fat, the big ones: Skopje, The Hague, the 100 billion! I want the Greek people to hear it: 100 billion was said by the New Democracy that it was SYRIZA's crime in the first semester. They called it your ministers. I'm not saying he's standing, I'm saying he's called it. Let's find out if that's true. You do not, however, because if it is not the case, you will become a humiliation, you will have bridled the vote of the Greek people. If this is the case, your future co-pilots will necessarily lead them to the pre-examination. You think the Greek people and that the Greek Solution do not know. The Greek Solution entered because it knows and will remain and will rule, because it can and knows much more than, at least superficially, some know. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now let's go to the Prime Minister. The Prime Minister had electionally said that the New Democracy would cleanse the country from Exarchia. There is a pre-election commitment from the New Democracy. The truth is, the whole country became Exarch, the whole country. When Nea Smyrna, which is an urban area, becomes what has happened, it means that control has been effectively lost. I am not like the left-wing or the right-wing ones: 'Start, kill.' Who are you hitting? The Greek? Or the farewells? There is a greater problem that no one has said here, ladies and gentlemen. And I'll tell you now. When in gatherings of peaceful people who want to make a gathering, a demonstration, beautiful and calm - and have the right to make it - go through hooligans, rioters, malicious and criminal elements, things get confused and the provocachi can easily stand. I tell you this because at yesterday's gatherings hooligans were brought in: Albanians, Iraqi and Azerbaijan. They were arrested yesterday. Of the sixteen were foreign. That is the danger when two hundred - tragedies of peaceful citizens from the region of Nea Smyrna wanted to protest - their right - is, although I disagree, because we have the pandemic - and there are such criminal elements coming in. That's what we need to discuss seriously. Easily one of them can pull a knife out. Here we have this strange and paradoxical. I'm going to say, maybe some people will understand. We heard about a thirty-year-old Iraqi, who is said to be a Greek-Iraqian. I know Greek Americans, I know no Greek-German. Where did the Greek-Iraqinos come from? Or they say "Greek Afghan", they say "Greek Pakistani". I don't understand that. So here comes the complete bankruptcy of choices to give citizenship and asylum to anyone, without control of whether he is a criminal or not. It is this essential objection that the Greek Solution has. Also, because you're giving citizenship - I want to stay a little bit on it - you've created a society that's supposedly multicultural. But you made an explosive mixture. I'll tell you this. We build a society without values and without unity as a whole. A society exists when there is totality, when there are common values, common roots, common perceptions and especially common cultural and cultural content, not when you mix things that have nothing to do with anything specific, but I would say forces that gather with other morals and other customs, such as clitoritomy, bourgeois, chadors, etc. Do you know, in passing, that in Greece you can wear bourga and chadour freely, while in European countries it is forbidden? They are circulating in the Omonia with tsador, bourgeois bourges, Hijab, and in Europe it is forbidden. Austria is forbidden. It's forbidden in Germany. It's forbidden in France. Greece is allowed to move freely throughout Athens. So here's what our proposal is. For me it is important but also unexplained, Mr President. Albanian fan - says - group and - listen now - anarchist. You hear that, Mr. Comrade? Albanian, group fan, anarchist. He has the right to be a group fan. In Albania, Albanians are Soviet criminals, in Greece they become anarchists. Isn't this a little strange coincidence? And I don't call them criminals. The US Ambassador, Mrs Yuri Kim, told them that three politicians were declared persona non grata by the US, because they are involved with drugs. No Greek channel transmitted the news he also played in the United States that there are Albanian politicians who are narcotics. Nobody. And where's the drugs coming? They're coming to our country. So, a few days ago, on 4 March, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL in the European Parliament, allowed the Albanian narcocrat to enter the European Union and did not put a veto on the Greeks of Northern Epirus, and that is what concerns me. Why didn't you veto? European Parliament opinion, 4 March, no Member of your Parliament. So eleven people were arrested who are foreign. Are you going to take their citizenship back? It's criminal. It's infringing evidence. You gave them asylum or citizenship. I don't know, you might make them Greek. You give citizenship, which is unacceptable. Will you deport them tomorrow morning? The Greek Solution promises, promises and will do so. Any stranger who took illegally citizenship, naturalisation and citizenship will take it back. Illegally took her, illegally, we'll get her back! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Deportation of those arrested and members of criminal groups in the incidents. Separate the day from the wheat. There's no other way. Because we have a cocktail now that simmers. I want you to understand that. That is why I appealed to all of us to get to grips with the tone. I don't want to believe there's a Greek policeman who likes to beat people, bleed each other's nose. I can't believe there's a Greek citizen who wants to beat the cop, guys. It can't be done. It doesn't work. There's something we didn't do right. There's something we don't do right. Stop pouring oil into the fire and stop working the police against the Greeks. Police are the protector of the Greeks, not the governments, whatever they are. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You're not playing with the police! Unfortunately, you're working on it. You send it to the citizens, they beat the citizens, defend the citizens of the clubs, and mix them with barbaric para-state elements. It's overstated evidence, keep that. Since 1974, no concentration has been free because it invades the para-state elements and creates problems with molotovs, explosions and then becomes what we call a mess. If a state cannot collect unmistakables, if a government cannot enforce law and order, not the badly defined concept of 'law and order', but live in social peace, then, Mr Ministers, you should go to elections in June, as you want to go to elections, to leave, if the Greek people - I think it is appropriate - and choose the Greek solution and finally give a solution to this problem and to the many things that exist. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And to see that we're not just criticizing. The Prime Minister said he'd parade on March 25th. The experts of the Greek Solution - I will testify to the Minutes - prepared a whole study of experts, about how a parade can be made without problems and without fear of some getting stuck. On the other hand, - we don't have to do the study, it's twenty-five pages for how to make a provision, how to do all this - it doesn't stick the Leopard Krone in the jeep. He can't get stuck. Just parade with the planes. Just do with the armored ones. Put something to show that the parade is a parade, that we don't stop it. Here is the study and we deliver it. On the other hand, I appeal to the good colleagues on the left. Ladies and gentlemen, I have a shock - because I have a sense of foreign affairs, because that is where I was born and raised - seeing the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki Members of parties legalising an illegal act. Occupational dean is an illegal act clearly. To speak seriously at some point in the Greek Parliament. When you take a place illegally, it's an illegal act. The Members of the Greek Parliament cannot be outside the door of the illegal occupation and defend the illegal act. They're giving them the right to send the police and get them out as they did today by force. We're making mistakes. You're all making mistakes. But, frankly, I am surprised that you are only disagreeing with the small ones, the occupations, the university police. Let me tell you this. The mandate given by the dean to empty the University in Thessaloniki was by law yours, of SYRIZA. Use the case law, the law of yours. The dean didn't do anything strange. He said "the law says that and I implement it". Why did your parliamentarians, while voting for the law, go out of the U.S.H. and sit outside the door and say 'no, is it illegal for the police to enter'? The dean called and asked for it. The fact that it belongs to New Democracy is another matter. Let's talk about it seriously whenever you want. Because I have said so and have denounced that teachers are made on the basis of their ideological party criteria and are hostages of the parties. Weaning, yes, we agree and solve the problem, but you do not. I mean, you can't be with the officer and the ranger. It can't be done. You will either make laws and keep them or you will say "what to do to them the laws". Decide. Let's go a little bit to the economy, 'cause time is pressing. Because I have ministers who are pleasing, they may like them, come here and smile and think they're addressing people who don't understand, I'll say it straight away, Minister, you know economical. Barclays the other day classified Greece among the economies of countries without sustainable debt, along with South Africa, Brazil, Peru and Colombia. The last one, Colombia, I get it, you know. I understand that, we have a lot of such buds dealing with 'fresh'. But we are in a worse position than countries such as Russia, Mexico, Turkey, which, according to the British group, is in a marginal position. So the ghost of debt comes. It's coming back. Our debt, for the New Democracy Members to understand it, is a debt of 1897 to GDP. So, to understand it, we're in a situation of 250 percent, which means very simply that mathematics comes in a new memorandum. You'll bring in a new Memorandum! And you bring a new memorandum, because for two years you haven't done anything serious to the economy, and I will prove to you. According to a scientific study by HYPEK, 6 billion euros have been lost by private sector employees who no one is involved. Civil servants are paid anyway. 6 billion lost, Minister. Number six billion don't hear it cut. It's money that would fall into the market. It is money that the hirer would take and return it through purchasing consumption to products, VAT, tax and the market will have a movement. Also - because there are very important things that bother me that the other Members of Parliament do not - our own MEP, ladies and gentlemen, fought with the ECR Group and we were able to suspend the ban on 'Boeing' and 'Airbus' duties. Biden signed up with Mrs. Johanson after moving our team. A Member of the European Parliament has the Greek solution. What does that mean? I'll tell you what. It means that winemakers and those who export agricultural products will not be rated as Trump had suddenly decided a few months ago. This is the Greek solution. A Member of the European Parliament did what the New Democracy Eurogroup does not do. One! Imagine being more. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Now, my Minister, the tragedy called new - Greece. Romania, establishment of a company: Tax on turnover 1%. Establishment of an e-mail company, 1% of the turnover. Can I give it to the Minister to see them? I'll testify to the Minutes. That's why Romania was on the Tsaucescu, and now it's going to 270 billion GDP. She's over Greece. We're going for 140 billion and they're going for 260 billion, 270 billion, 280 billion. Tax on business. Give an incentive to invest, not your children, in Mrs Latsis, for example. I say give incentives to invest. You know what I mean. I mean, give all the motives. And, of course, we know what New Democracy and KINAL have been telling us for 50 years. SYRIZA, fortunately, didn't rule much, and he didn't have time to commit bigger crimes. We'd have the Aegean Sea lost now. They're delaying it a little bit longer. Listen a little. Marina, tourist ports in the European Union. Germany has two thousand seven hundred. The Netherlands has a thousand hundred and sixty. We have islands, we have seas, etc. Poland has a thousand three hundred, ladies and gentlemen. Sweden has a thousand five hundred, England has sixty-five and Greece twenty-two! European Marina, not cement. I'm going to testify about the Minutes. Fifty years you have ruled with a flag, "the heavy industry is our tourism", and you were not able to do marinas. Fifty years you haven't been able to make marinas in our country and you want to go back to rule and re-govern and re-govern! It can't be done. To close, to ask my friend Georgiadis, whom I very much like - an old friend - this: The Greek what happened? The Greek became Albanian to me, it looks like the ferry of Arta. What about the Greek? The bulldozers came in and left. Why? They didn't have gas, didn't they have oil? You are advertising the Greek as a great success. There's no food, there's no shovel in there. And now here's what's going on. The American casino company, MOHEGAN, is borrowed by Alpha Bank and NATIONAL and urges the Greek Government to borrow again, to give them money to make the investment. Nice investors. That's not an investment. In other words, the Greeks assume the future of the Greek banks, so that the Greeks can pay back the investment that the private individuals will make in order to dedicate themselves. This is an incredible situation! I'm telling you that. And I say it for banks that do not give 1 euros for the real economy, I say it for the banks that do not give a loan to the Greek businessman. Also, on 24 April 2020, a year ago - Mr Russopoulos was here, if I remember, because he is one of the diligent, he is always here in honour - I said: Prime Minister - he was here the Prime Minister - saving oil - he had gone oil to 25 dollars the barrel - because he has fallen down, he has been demolished - in fact, 20 dollars - take oil. The price's up 300%. If we had taken and stored last year, in a year now we would have a profit of 300%, i.e. about EUR 2.5 billion, money that could be paid tomorrow morning to pensioners, farmers, livestock farmers, the broad popular masses that are hungry. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I say this because you tell me that there are no solutions. There are solutions. In conclusion, I will say something because you are the European Union's followers. It's not me. I say this directly now and publicly. I am not a fan of this European Union. I am a supporter of a Europe that, in fact, will have a single tax system, a single economy, a single foreign policy, a single defence policy, with citizens who - I repeat - will have the same obligations and possibilities of resilience. I say this for the following reason: I read in the newspaper 'Kathimerini' on Sunday an interview by Mr Pitchou. The "PITSOS" refrigerators you remember? The man is a hundred three years old. Clear his mind. That's a big deal. It says, therefore, medium - edges: "What bothered me is the statement "I threw the Greeks in the deep waters and I hope they will learn to swim". This was made by the Nation ruler of New Democracy by the late Karamanlis at that time. And he says: "In our field we did not know what we had to do to survive after entering the EEC. He caused us a huge problem. The industry was destroyed with this option." But that's not what you're told in the New Democracy. And he says something else. It says that the Greek industry was destroyed by state leaders. It doesn't matter the names. Some have allowed trade unions to be invincible and trade unions to act incompatible with the tolerance of governments. And he says at one point that one of his two employees, trade unionists, at the "PITSOS" company, who produced refrigerators and continuously exported them - the best European fridge built "PITSOS" - who closed the company with constant strikes, one of them collated with the Olympics' board at PASOK and the other became a secretary or something. If, for fifty years, you have not been able to solve these self-evident things, it is difficult now, in difficult times - it was easy times to solve the difficult and difficult times. There's too much to say. I mean, the damage you're doing with Lockdown. Stop the lockdown. Please, stop the lockdown. Stop it. It's wrong. It's really wrong. There are also studies which I shall be presenting for the Minutes. The study of twenty distinguished scientists, which no channel has passed, says that the consequences of the general banning universalisation are disastrous. Androylicakis, Anetakis - doctors are all of them - Vantarakis, Guvas, Kutrophine, Kouvelas, Mavridis, Mavriaki, Nastulis - not Nastulis, the well-known - Athanasia Papa, Maria Petroulou, Aristides Akakis, Konstantinos Poulas. Twenty top scientists, doctors, talk to scientific evidence and say it's wrong Catholic lockdown. You're going to drive the world crazy. People will die out of madness. Depressions, psychological problems will arise. Also - and I must say this - listen to the insanity: now you say that because of the increase in cases after the universal closure of twenty days, we must impose another universal closure. In other words, for twenty days we have had a universal closure, but we have had an increase in cases and because we have an increase in cases, we will have another universal closure. Understand that it is a vicious circle, it is a death spiral, because with universal lockdown, universal closure does not end the problem. I have before me a huge study by HARVARD, DUKE, HOPKINS, of leading universities - I will present it in the Minutes - where teachers clearly say that universal closures will cause more than a million deaths in the United States. A million deaths from universal closures. It's called professors. And don't tell me now about Mr. Chiodra and Mrs. Pagony. We're talking about HARVARD, HOPKINS and DUKE. They're top universities. I'm not questioning their scientific authority. But I doubt the sequence of statements and conflicting perceptions as appropriate. Other study: WHO, World Health Organization: Exploration of psychological problems after pandemic. No channel says that. The psychological wounds will exceed every limit. World Health Organization: It will be even bigger than what the world experienced after World War II. The World Health Organization says it. I'm not talking about it. Get on the website and read them. Also mistakes of the New Democracy...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u26	Mr President, how much longer will it take?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u27	One and a half minutes and I'll be closed, Mr. President. Italy, Poland, Slovakia, Germany, Cyprus, Switzerland, the Netherlands, Spain: Open schools, shops, catering. Slovakia, the Netherlands, France: restrictions on circulation only. Greece: Free only SMS. Only SMS is free. Everything else is closed. For the mask I again have a study from the RIKEN & COV UNIVERSITY colossus. Researchers who used the Fugaku supercomputer, Japan. What's he saying? The use of two non-woven masks has not been shown to be useful. I'll give the study of the Minutes. Let me not even think that some are doing business with mask companies. I don't want to think about it, 'cause all the major universities come out and say the opposite. Don't think about it. I don't want to. Professor at the University of Copenhagen says the mask doesn't protect. I'll testify on the Minutes. It was published in a medical journal two days ago. I will close with a series of lecturers who have made a series of contradictory statements. Because time is pushing, I won't read it. I'll do it another day. Dermijakis: The pandemic has escaped because everything is closed. Two months ago Dermitzakis told SKAI that everything must be closed, because the pandemic has escaped. Now he says the pandemic's gone because everything's closed. We're not going to convince the Greek people like this. You can't convince him. You know what I think? I'll tell you. It says Mrs Linos that an hour of demonstration is less than an hour dangerous than an hour in the media. Here the Prime Minister was telling us that he has studies that he doesn't fit. You don't believe the Prime Minister, ladies and gentlemen, do you? He's got studies that he doesn't fit in the buses. He has regular studies. Is that how you're gonna convince the Greek people? Oh, no. Ladies and gentlemen, I fear that you have not understood one thing: with lies you can rule one year, with lies you can rule two years, with lies you can rule three years, but with lies you cannot really govern. You rule only for the chair and not for the Greek. We say rule first for the Greek and then for you. Unfortunately, however, the Prime Minister is closed around him and does not see far away. And away is June, when elections are coming. You'll get a message and it'll be so powerful, the breakdown will be so big, you understand and you'll say: unfortunately, we were wrong. Unfortunately, the mistake is not going to be paid for by you. The Greek people will pay for it and it will be very great: monuments, depression, psychological injuries and, above all, it can also lose national sovereignty unfortunately with The Hague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u28	We enter the first circle of speakers with a natural presence with the first speaker Mr Kalogiannis Stavros. The speech of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Koutsouba and then Mr Alexiadis and Mr Katrinis will be followed. Mr. Kalogannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will reintroduce the debate in the draft law we are debating, which includes two parts: the first concerns the ratification of a decision on the European Union's own resources system and the second deals with the Financial Stability Fund. Let us first see the arrangements for own resources. In July 2020, the leaders of the Member States of the European Union took a very important step out of the economic crisis and the deep recession caused by the coronary pandemic. They agreed at the disposal of EUR 750 billion for the recovery of national economies through the Recovery Fund with a mixture of grants and loans. At the same time, they also agreed on a package of 1 trillion EUR 74 billion for the Union budget for the period 2021-2027. On the basis of this agreement in Greece, they are expected to enter the next seven years through the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund the largest sums that the country has ever received since its accession to the European Union of EUR 72 billion. Of these, about EUR 40 billion relates to the multiannual financial framework and EUR 32 billion to the Recovery Fund. This is a historically important financial framework, which, with a rational utilization, will enable the recovery of the national economy and sustainable and inclusive growth to be achieved. A precondition for achieving this is for each Member State to ratify the decision on the new system of own resources of the Union which we are debating today and which will replace the 2014 corresponding system. This will trigger the Recovery Fund. More specifically, the new decision enables the European Commission to borrow funds from the markets in order to ensure financial capacity for the recovery measures of the European economy. There are strict timetables that are set. The legal commitments for any programme financed by the Recovery Fund should be made by 31 December 2023. I had the opportunity to discuss this new decision at a teleconferencing conference a few days ago in the context of European Parliament Week 2021 on European economic governance, in the presence of Commissioner Gendillon and President of the European Parliament, Mr Sasoli, who highlighted the need to ratify the decision. The decision establishes a permanent increase in own resources ceilings to 1.4% and 1.66% of the European Union's gross income to cover payment appropriations and commitments respectively. At the same time, there is a temporary increase in these own resources ceilings by 0.6 percentage points to ensure the necessary resources. At the same time, a new resource calculated on the basis of non-recycled plastic packaging waste is introduced in each Member State. The single payment coefficient shall be EUR 0,80 per kilogram. This is a resource that certainly has an ecological character, will accelerate recycling, will boost the cyclical economy. To sum up, the ratification of the decision on the European Union's own system of own resources by our Parliament combined with ratification by the parliaments of the Member States will enable us to reap the fruits achieved by the government at the July 2020 summit. The revenue obtained through the ratification decision will contribute to the promotion of a green and digital transition, to the promotion of research, to the strengthening of employment, to social cohesion, to the promotion of the private investment that the country so needs. The second part of the draft law amends Law 3864/2010, which governs the operation of the Financial Stability Fund, in order to enable the Fund to participate in capital increases, which are not of a capital aid nature, to cover capital deficits or resolution. The fund, set up in 2010 to support our banking system, provided capital support for recapitalisation or gradual resolution purposes and now has to leave, but by implementing an exit strategy that must be coordinate. Today the fund is not allowed to participate in an increase in capital of a credit institution to which it is a shareholder unless this increase is required for supervisory reasons. The draft law seeks to facilitate the attraction of investors to Greek banks and strengthen strategies to attract new capital on market terms. An important step in this direction is the decommissioning of the public by the banks. At a time when the banking system is changing, the Greek banks, based on a policy of reform and a reduction in the'red' loans followed by the government, and with a view to the activation of the Recovery Fund, can proceed by implementing, I repeat, each of its own strategy. In conclusion, the Government with the second part of the bill introduces a possibility for the fund so that it can respond to the investment conditions in the best way possible, as any citizen who wishes to maximise the benefit of his investment seeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u30	Now Mr Alexiadis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. We heard this morning that the New Democracy rapporteur hopes that the debate will not develop in a process of political cohort, and at some point I was happy and I said: there will finally be a serious discussion here. They have changed tactics and are in the mood to discuss issues such as the theme of the CFSF, the banking system, the economic crisis and not the terrible ones and - how did you say so? criminal mistakes? - SYRIZA's criminal acts and omissions and stuff like that. I said: 'There will be a serious discussion'. But then I remembered something. I saw your speech, Mr rapporteur of the New Democracy, in the committee. Another speaker made one speech and another one? You talked about political cohort today you invited us. If you look at what you said in the Committee on Economic Affairs, it is the depository of the political conflict. It is not wrong to have a different political view. The problem is not personal - I will tell you later where the personal problem is - it is not a personal dispute. The problem is the political one, that you are not discussing, that you are not having a dialogue. You come here with a political account that the country was in a paradise by January 2015 and came "the evil SYRIZA", as you say, and "by crimes and omissions led the country to destruction". A question is personal to you as legal: why do you not investigate criminal acts and omissions? You don't want to do it, and we understand why. Why don't we start a dialogue, not since 1945, from 2000 onwards, what happened to the financial system, what happened to the crisis, what happened to the PSI, what happened to the Exchange, what happened with the Olympic Games, with a whole lot of things, which we must of course discuss and we are ready, but you're afraid to discuss. You're afraid to discuss them. You choose this "snake" which you have and you keep saying the same thing and the same, while we have answered a number of arguments. You're afraid to have a dialogue. It is clear why you are afraid to have a dialogue because you will find yourself in front of the great responsibilities of PASOK - New Democracy, New Democracy - PASOK. One spokesman from KINAL said - not Mr Scandalides, he takes note of what he says - 'our government' and runs honey at that time, because he hopes that those days will come again. They might come for themselves, I don't know if they're coming for their parties. "Our government," the Samara - Venizelos government made it all perfect and SYRIZA bad came in and destroyed it! That's why you don't want to change your tactics so far and make dialogue. We as a party have also tabled a text publicly for the accountability of our government period, because of course we want to discuss it. Do you dare? You do not dare, because first of all you will face your enormous populism. One example I will say, I could say too much. One example I'm going to say, because there's also in the bill. You said that all of us shared the introduction of the new own resource for unrecycled plastic packaging. That's right. Let me ask you something, Mr. Karaguni, rapporteur of the New Democracy. Do you remember a story about the bad 20 unjust taxes of SYRIZA? Because some people who are now sitting at ministerial offices and who were then in opposition chairs blamed SYRIZA for putting an end to the plastic bag and this tax, not only did you not abolish it, but - quite rightly - you have increased it. I won't insist on that. A request to the Bureau, not personally to the President-in-Office, to the Bureau. The Bureau of Parliament must decide: Or it will claim for itself a time-sharing role for speakers and be ringing the bell that your time is 'finished and you are going to go down' or choose a role of Parliament's proper functioning. Parliament does not function properly. We have a huge bill a hundred and thirty-five pages of law that was filed on Friday afternoon and entered 10 a.m. on Monday morning in committee. That concludes yesterday the Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs. The scandals you wanted to hide - and I will come to them later - you did not bring them to the Committee on Economic Affairs to discuss them, and last afternoon you tabled another bill of four hundred and twenty-six pages. Yesterday the committee ended one bill, today we are in plenary. You tabled another bill of four hundred twenty pages for the Greek, which starts on Tuesday. Is this the function of Parliament? You also brought three ninety-five pages after the end of the Committee on Economic Affairs was supposed to be discussed. Someone would say that you have been caught with an agony in the face of political situations and you want to resolve a number of issues. It's like what we lived in December 2014, that you brought in different situations. Some benefited in particular from business interests, but you were not saved from it. You won't be saved either now. Well, someone would say that's it. I, for my part, have learned to read between the lines and to look a little bit further, I say this clearly and take political responsibility as Alexiadis for what I do: you do it to cover scandals. You do it because the government has made the political choice to cover scandals and serve specific business interests. I'd like to ask a question. I was happy to see Mr. Metarakis before, I guess he's not here right now. What business interests does Amendment 793/120 serve? Look what it says. If you have a company and you give hospital equipment or you clean a hospital or provide security services, what you will pay from the hospital will have to be offset with public debts etc. So there, where we need you do not give this opportunity to serve companies and help. Which companies hide from the back when for the beneficiaries of the “ESTIA” programme, what will be paid are unaccounted for, unreasonable, unreasonable, unreasonable and unreasonable with certain debts, etc.Huh? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I won't need any more. What interests do you serve? The names of certain companies are already available. I don't think you're serving a natural person who rents a house to serve an immigrant or something. So bring us the evidence. Also, because you are now commonly known as LEFT, not even your own newspapers and websites, I submit to the minutes, not to the LEFT, not to the LEFT, which is good to read. I am tabling a report from 4-32021 on the subject of the amendment brought by the Ministry of Finance to another bill, so that there is no debate. "In the case of the cancellation of a truly historic decision to break down arbitrary protagonists, they tell me, he played a Cretan role in the origin of the Minister, as well as the well-known interests of the Cretan hoteliers mainly from Elounda, some of which are tigas in the arbitrary", "CREDITION". You've even been taken by your people, like "Capital" in another post that he denounces and you need to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u32	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u33	I shall close with one phrase, Mr President. My mind today is to those who were released after the arrests at the University of Thessaloniki. I wish them good power and good courage, especially to Stephanos from Ioannina, a student who took his first experience of such situations. I hope these young people with peaceful social struggles will claim their rights, not to be afraid. Nor did the death of Kumi and Kanellopoulou in 1980 benefit the governments, nor did the death of Kalteza, unfortunately, by police officers in 1985. You have chosen tension and violence. Your government will not be saved from this. You will have the fate of governments who have invested in violence and stress. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u34	Good. We will now give the floor to the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u35	The draft law that is being discussed today is not a new philosophical section in the development of the European Union, it does not reflect a forward-looking compromise that can address the enormous problems that the capitalist development path has created in Greece and the whole world. What exactly does the government bring for approval? Basically, a decision on a joint lending by the European Commission of a few hundred billion euros. The common lending to which the European Union and its large package of state support are now moving does not change the reality. More generally, the Kanes-style policy does not change the fact that your system, in order to ensure profitability for the few, has no other way than escalation at the same time of attacking the people. The policy aimed at increasing the degree of exploitation of the working class will continue to ensure the profit of new investments and groups in general. That is why the measures you have brought, by grabbing the opportunity of pandemic, have come to stay, perhaps with a more characteristic example of teleworking that breaks down the workers, leaves them no more free time, but makes them more productive for capital. Any minimum measures you have taken for workers are temporary measures to contain the drop in people's income more to delay social unrest, but your ability to take measures of this type is now exhausted in the territory of all this heightened competition. The forecast package of 2021 is already considerably smaller than the 2020 one. You know very well that even this premium policy last year did not really respond to the unemployment of hundreds of thousands of workers, with accounts running, with unrecovered stores, with taxes and contributions growing. You just threw the ball a little further. And it is time for the regrettable for the workers to stop the measures of suspension and temporary aid. You cannot hide, however you are trying, that in this system - even though you excite it - there are no money trees. State lending, whether alone or together with the European Union, as well as the other solution proposed by economists, i.e. printing more money, is being reloaded to the backs of the people who will be asked to repay it the next day. In our country, the state debt has already evacuated over 200% of GDP. Who's gonna pay for this? It is a rhetorical question and the answer is well known. State taxation falls on the backs of workers and the current debts that are accumulated you want to charge them to the people the next day. After all, you are already expecting new fees in favour of the European Union that have been burdening workers for decades in the future. You cannot hide that the expansion plan, the expansion package and the Recovery Fund have as targets new profitable sectors for the large capital. Of course, you are trying to appear in a more romance way - so to speak - the bitter truth about our people. You say that 'we will not waste the package'. But what do you mean by that? You just tell the workers that the package is not for them and their needs, that the package is to fund the most famous 'green' investments, the digital transition to make productive restructuring of the economy. You don't say it accidentally. This is the core of the European Union's policy on the subject of the 'green' digital transition. That's what it takes to move the system forward the next day. Changes to the founding law of the Financial Stability Fund, which you also bring to the draft law, prove the truth. Your fears of the "red" loans of the banks and the needs to shield them capital light up that neither do you believe the popular strata will come out of the end of the crisis. The new changes are yet another link in the chain of bank state financing to facilitate capitalist growth. What will the workers receive? New even greater losses than the new holdings in the fund's share capital. The common lending of the European Union, the essence of today's debate, will not change the situation of the workers, will not relieve capitalism of the occurrence of the crises that have stirred him up in recent years. This is certainly not a practical demonstration of solidarity between the Member States of the European Union. Despite the temporary compromise within the European Union, the interests of urban classes within the Union deviate and competition is further exacerbated. This temporary compromise is an attempt to strengthen its cohesion, which is tested by the unequal manifestation of the crisis and its consequences, of course, between the Member States of the European Union. In any case, when our people hear steps to deepen unification, they must be kept in guard, because this means that the mechanisms for implementing decisions against them will strengthen the supervisory mechanisms that may now be called trophys, institutions, but they will be here all present and present against the Greek people in order to better control their undoubtedness. The attitude of each party towards the Recovery Fund is therefore not an individual, a secondary issue, it is a central political issue because we are talking about a new iron chain that the people of Europe will be dragging it down for many years. And here, things are very specific. All of you, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, have welcomed the establishment of the Recovery Fund, as other governments of the European Union have done both the so-called liberals and social democrats, hiding the unpleasant conditions for the workers, for the people that will accompany and any disbursement of the fund that will be directed at the recovery of capitalist profitability. We are not surprised, of course, by this attitude. As you voted together on the third memorandum and applied the other two, you are holding the same attitude in this new memorandum from the European Union. With your memorials, these useful tools with which you have all loaded the economic crisis on the backs of the people, so are you pursuing this new super memorandum. You know, however, that this will not eventually be accepted by the people, as you also know that no people can carry a iron chain for life, so you are taking your measures, so you are increasingly barbarically against the struggles of the people, which is why you are equipping the arsenal of repression, authoritarianism. But you do reason without the hotel owner. This was demonstrated by the grand gathering of unions, trade unions, other mass organizations and thousands of residents in Nea Smyrna against uncovered police violence. And just because this gathering was grand, they set up the known incidents with suspected mechanisms of the state and the parastate and the assistance of some pre-vocattered evidence. In New Smyrna, the anger and indignation against the unnecessarily police violence, the anger and indignation of a people who are struggling to stand up from the pandemic, knowing that you have left him in their fate, a people who know that the pandemic already rises the Golgotha of unemployment, poverty and will pay all the broken economic crisis. We tell you and we want you to listen well, you will not be able to close the mouth of the Greek people. The inappropriate police violence against residents, against families last Sunday in the square of Nea Smyrna, was not an isolated incident. On the same day, at the same time, other districts were like Halandri and elsewhere, which means that the attitude of police forces to provoke incidents and not just a few fascists and chrysayers who are unfortunately also in the police force. You're the ones who say it yourself. But even if that were the case, why don't you take them out? What are you holding them for? Nor were the police attacks on protesters, residents of New Smyrna following the gathering, and the raids were individual incidents. Where do you say that? The beatings, the attacks of police forces on residents, on young people even in women until the early hours of the morning, that is, many hours after the incidents in Nea Smyrna and the surrounding districts and municipalities of the South Sector, what was it? Individual incidents? Police and state terrorism is not an isolated incident. I guess you should look a little bit further. We say that you should look a little further for all those where no police uniforms are available, but you are giving them the duty to infiltrate - they are supposed to - within organisations, within the houlge groups of land, elsewhere. Is it true or not that in the demonstrations they carry these molotovs on them, and of course they use them against protesters, to start the hit and dismantle the concentrations? Otherwise we would not discuss every three and a little bit about the intensity of repression. A single incident was the prohibition of protests at the Polytechnic and the suppression of the KKE demonstration, the prohibition of memory events for Alex Gregopoulou, the invasion of MS at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki last week? Because today's evacuation, as we say, took place after a decision was taken yesterday, as we all know, that these segregations will end at noon today. And you've shut down all Egnatia, all of Thessaloniki until this time we're talking. Or is it an isolated event to dismantle other concentrations? All that we have lived in the middle of a pandemic are images from the past, but above all from the future. It's rehearsal for what's coming. The scenarios for these rehearsals have been written by you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, by the laws you have passed, of course, by pressing on the legislative arsenal that has maintained, extended and inherited you, and by SYRIZA, before this PASOK, who are now presenting your hard wars - to set up the two-party game - playing on the backs of the people. The rehearsals were also made by the law on limiting the protests and by the law on university police and by the law - and in two instalments, one was the government of SYRIZA - to limit the strike right. The writing continues with the further restriction of trade union rights. Ladies and gentlemen, all this demonstrates that the escalation of repression is not just a obsession with the Government of New Democracy, as SYRIZA, KINAL, other parties, but conscious choice we believe, has been put forward by every anti-popular bourgeois government. The intensity of repression and authoritarianism is the choice of all governments in the Member States of the Union where they also have a pandemic, where public health systems have also collapsed, and no protection measures have been taken in the workplace, in schools, schools and in public transport. Would you like to remind you of them? Within the pandemic in France, your friend McCrone, the universal security law was passed in the midst of great popular reactions, a measure of repression and censorship. In Spain, the social-democratic so-called progressive government of SYRIZA and KINAL friends were banned a few days ago even the demonstrations on International Women's Day. In Italy, we had a ban on strikes in the north, strikes which had called for the closure of any industry that had become an outbreak of coronary overtransmission. In many countries of the European Union, we have continuous extensions of the emergency situation to provide financial and other repressive measures under a wider restriction regime. What's all this? Perseverance or choice resulting from the European Union strategy to serve specific major economic and other interests? What's this? Individual cases in the European Union of the supposed well-being of the people or an element of the policy of managing the new economic crisis at the expense of the peoples? The intensity of repression and authoritarianism does not only have the signature of the Government of New Democracy, which can be halved as the genuine expression of dogma law and order. He also has the signature of the SYRIZA government, who cannot appear as innocent pigeon. You, SYRIZA gentlemen, were not the ones who not only abolished the MATs, as you announced, but did you take out the streets and auras, which follows faithfully from you New Democracy? Were you not the ones who not only abolished the 'terrorist', as you were saying by election, but instead enriched it, strengthened it by new provisions, with the terror on the Internet? Would you like to remind you of the Herianna case, which you have done the duck in the amendment that the JRC then tabled to change the relevant article of the Code of Civil Procedure regarding the judicial exploitation of DNA? Should we remind you of the conversion to proprietary popular protests against auctioning that it is your legislation, the new Criminal Code that increases penalties for offences that can be exploited against the people's movement? As you can see, as the Greek people see, you also have your nest dirty. The New Democracy has inherited from SYRIZA an already suffocating legal framework for popular rights, labour liberties. Now, law, it upgrades this legislative framework to the worst. That's why the New Democracy Government chooses SYRIZA as a convenient opponent. In fact, Mr. Mitsotakis chooses to reply tomorrow, from this step, to Mr. Tsipras on police violence against civilians in Nea Smyrna. We understand Mr. Mitsotakis. He chooses the easy guy, the convenient opponent. Why do you both say together many times even with the same words? "Folkness, social peace, not division, normality" and many others that are of course also slogans of law and order. No, there can't be unanimity with unfairness, we say. Because in the end, in this exploitation society, all of this is nothing but the subjection of many, the unjust, the oppressed. It's nothing but denying the struggle, the class struggle, which you don't want, it'll exist and it'll strengthen. Because when SYRIZA charges the escalation of repression to the right-wing and far-right payouts of the New Democracy, it leaves the substance unavoidable, i.e. the classic, anti-popular government policy that he himself has implemented and which is always imposed by authoritarian control, with repression. It suits both of you to controversy. The cockroaches - you see - always make sight for the public. But they don't stop being chickens. Every day, we see them, SYRIZA blames you for your extreme right-wing obsessions and you trying to present SYRIZA well as the organizer of all these mobilizations. Mercy! Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago you set up a whole debate in this House to open your mouth for sexual abuse, which, of course, must be opened. But when they open their mouths to denounce the repression, authoritarianism, to denounce your politics, do what you can to close them. We speak clearly. We tell you and put it-- if you want-- well in your mind. This sick, this dangerous climate of fear that you cultivate will not pass, no matter how much with everyday operations, even military groups of neighborhood police, you are trying to inspire the people that it is only because of the spread of pandemic. And because it's his fault, you're telling him that he's going to have to suffer from the police rule, like those who come out for a walk are those who, for example, had to shield the public health system and didn't do it, as if it were their job to find medical beds, ICUs, doctors, nurses, vaccines enough, more vaccinated centres, more drugs. As much as you're trying to take responsibility for launching the incidents to the people themselves and to their struggles, the mobilisations, the responsibility is yours and this liability is criminal. Instead of overseeing large private hospitals in Attica, you should enter them in the newspaper for covid and non-covid incidents, instead of running vaccination with access to all available vaccines, instead of imposing protection measures on the workplace, on the means of transport, instead of opening up schools, universities, which have put them on the table for a year now, instead of directly supporting seismic people in the villages of Thessaly, instead of supporting the unemployed, workers in suspension, workers working endless hours with reduced wages, instead of actually supporting small professionals and merchants with a debt write-off from tax and banks, with a subsidy of individual insurance contributions, with an exceptional monthly allowance to professionals, but also more long-term relief measures, such as the reintroactive tax relief and the abolition of the fee, you are already re-examined by three unstable measures. And all this to gold up the pill for your criminal responsibilities and bend the reactions and displeasure of the small businessmen and professionals that grow. You're making a manifestation of state force. This is not a question of competence and stability. It's just a sample of clean, your choice and responsibility. And that is why, of course, we are sure that you will both politically accountable for the government and deserved opposition. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr. Katsuba. Before moving on to the list of speakers, three Ministers have asked for the floor to develop the amendments they have tabled. If you do not disagree, I address the ministers, we will propose Mr Economou, who is pressing for an obligation he has at 14.00 p.m. Mr Economou, you have the floor to develop your amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed provision by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection provides for the cover of the travel costs of fire personnel of up to three persons for whom they are required to be seconded directly by way of secondment to the General Secretariat of Civil Protection, in cases of exceptional and unforeseen needs, for reasons of public security or public health and for as long as such disposal takes place. In this way, an essential issue that has arisen beyond the time limits set by the existing legal framework governing such procedures, which enables these officials to be employed without a time-limit. The payment of travel expenses is addressed to the urgent need to settle the living conditions of specialised officials of the Firehouse, without their request but at the initiative of the Service, and to contribute away from their place of permanent residence and their organic position to address crises and risks of responsibility of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. This regulation therefore appears necessary, as it limits the excessive financial burden of the above-mentioned executives, thereby demonstrating the responsibility of the administration and the State as a whole for the personnel deploying due to exceptional and unforeseen needs on its own initiative. For these reasons, I call on you ladies and gentlemen, to support this legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Metarakis has the floor, which will be placed for the second part of the same amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am speaking on the second article of Amendment No 793 and number 120, which defines the inappropriate, inappropriate and uncompromising amounts paid to the partners in the implementation of the 2021 ESTIA housing programme of the Ministry of Migration and Asylum. It's about the housing program this year. We are thus responding to a fair request from the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, as sent to us on 23 February by letter No 679 from the President of the CEDEFOP, which I shall submit in the Minutes. In particular, the President of the CEDEFOP asks us to take into account the request made by the municipalities, municipal companies and municipal agencies of the incompatibility with the implementation of the ESTIA 2021 programme, and asks that they should not be confiscated and not be subject to any kind of retention and that they should not be offset by any debts from the recipients, i.e. the municipalities, the municipal companies and the municipal authorities, to the Greek public and the insurance funds. I'm filing the letter in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum Mr.Notis Metarakis submits for the minutes the above letter, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The ESTIA programme, as you know, has been operating since 2015, initially under the command of the UN High Commissioner for Immigration and Asylum, with 100% funding from the European Commission, while the responsibility for overseeing compliance with the conditions for implementing the programme is now borne by the Ministry of Immigration and Asylum. Today, the programme has twenty-six providers, the majority of which are municipalities or municipal enterprises or organisations. The proposed regulation addresses a problem identified in the payments and in particular in the development companies of the municipalities participating in the programme. And while they have regulated debts to the public and the insurance funds and receive intangible tax and insurance information, they cannot collect all the funding, as this is offset by regulated debts. So they cannot pay salaries, rents and public utility bills for private homes, apartments and other buildings used for the housing of asylum seekers, with the risk of having asylum seekers' evictions, while the Greek State with 100% financing of the European Commission pays the rent. Is this the first time we've had this arrangement? Oh, no. Is this an arrangement made by this government only for asylum seekers' programmes? Oh, no. I would remind you that on 23 December 2020, a few months ago, under Law 4764/2020 and Article 131, exactly the same provision was introduced for the Greek hotels, which participate in the programme of the Ministry of Tourism "Tourism for All" and as far as I know there were no issues of the legality of the provision at that time. Therefore, I do not think there are such issues today. We are responding to a request from the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece, so that European funding can reach its destination. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u42	Mr President, I too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u43	I saw you. Wait a minute, don't rush. Listen to me. Mr. Petchas is missing. Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Hetas obviously want to put questions to Mr. Metarakis. I propose - and if you would like - that Mr Petsas be placed in his amendment and that the Council's action on the amendments should be closed. And, if necessary, any questions that exist for the Ministry of the Interior or the other Ministries, should be put together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Pecha, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Amendment No 794/121 concerns the 'ITIS II programme'. It is a programme of emblematics by the Ministry of Interior, worth 2.5 billion euros, which is capable of changing the view of local communities for the benefit of natural citizens, improving their everyday lives. It uses this money to finance actions from water and sewerage infrastructures with issues related to rural roads or intelligent cities. In order to make the implementation of this programme quicker and more effective - with this amendment in particular, paragraph 8 - we are providing for technical assistance to the special agency of the Ministry of the Interior which is implementing this programme. This is the basic change that this amendment makes in the existing context. Some legislative, in particular, improvements are being made to issues relating to legislative authorisations, in particular the signatures with the other co-legislative ministries. And I would draw your attention here to the fact that it is clear that here we are choosing this way to have better synergy with, for example, the Ministry of Digital Governance or with the General Secretariat of Civil Protection or with other competent ministries, such as Health, in order to have the best possible synergy when we have the Recovery Fund and funding coming from this source. As far as other amendments are concerned, we have the change in the evaluation committee where we choose the replacement of the members of the EBRD to date, because the EBRD can be the same implementing body and cannot therefore be an evaluator. I should like to draw your attention to three legislative changes. At the end of paragraph 3A, where 'the actions and interventions concerning areas of competence and other ministries' are referred to, the words 'the first subparagraph' shall be added to make it clear that we are talking about the Ministries referred to in paragraph 3A. Also, in paragraph 4, where the representatives referred to in the evaluation committee, the reference made to 'two representatives of the Minister of Home Affairs' becomes 'an official of the Ministry of Economic and Development Policy Directorate of the Ministry of Interior and a representative of the Minister of Interior' in case (b). While in paragraph 7, where the composition of the tripartite monitoring committee was mentioned, the "a representative of the Minister of Home Affairs" is converted into "an official of the Department of Economic and Development Policy of the Ministry of Interior". I'll testify it soon. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u46	Thank you, Mr. Minister. So now we're going to the questions. They have so far stated that they want to ask Mr. Loverdos and Mr. Hetas. We're starting with Mr. Loverdos. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u47	I think Mrs Manolakou had the same attitude yesterday in committee and today. I think that all of us in the Standing Committee on Economic and Monetary Affairs and Industrial Policy - and Mr Syrmalene - had asked Mr Stakoura if he would bring any amendments, because the second reading would in some way be meaningless. We've told all our arguments. And the second reading is the reading at which, Mr President, the government assesses what Parliament has said so that it can make changes or bring us amendments. So yesterday we asked whether you would bring any amendments. As the Minister said the government would bring in the day before yesterday, we expected that it would be a more correct way, of course, of bringing these three together, looking at them and not making the plenary committee in substance, because that is what we are doing. It is very wrong all the way the government is making its speeches with amendments and forcing us, Mr President, on the easy solution to say 'the present', because we do not know what has brought us. We doubt it, we ask. I would like to ask for Mr Metarakis' amendment. I read, Mr Mitaraki, the letter by Mr Papastergiou, President of the Central Association of Municipalities of Greece. You filed her, I got her, I read her. I therefore have a picture of what people say, because it says to you: "You, as you are expected not to be seized, should not be subject to any kind of retention and should not be offset by any public debts to the Greek public or the funds". Who? Issues related to financing for the Estia 2021 programme. Housing programme for applicants for international protection. That's what Mr. Papastergiou says. We read Article 2 of the amendment, which is more or less applicable to the application of this request, but Parliament must ask two questions. The first thing you need to ask is who are the beneficiaries? No, what's the matter, who are the beneficiaries? And the second thing that needs to be asked is whether there is exactly the same behavior for all the programmes concerning the implementation of immigration and asylum policy or exceptionally for 'Estia 2021' is this regulation? Here you should consider the question reasonable. Or has this been done in other cases which do not concern immigration or asylum issues? The legislator did so again on SYRIZA, as your dear argument is. We don't care if he did it again. He has done so with an exceptional exception many times on other issues. But for this matter that has a sensitivity, is behaviour universal to the beneficiaries of all your Ministry's programmes? I want clean answers both. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, Mr. Loverdo. Mr. Heta, you obviously want to ask, don't you? So, Minister, let's listen to Mr. Heta and answer the whole question. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u49	Mr Metarakis, the truth is that when I saw you, I said you came back to get your amendment. You guys probably came here with other moods. Because, Mr Mitarakis, that is not an amendment, it is a shameful one! And I'm not at all happy to say it. We're talking about being embarrassed by what you're bringing here. The President of the Greek Solution invited you to come here and get it back and the Greeks and Greeks know what is mentioned here, what provisions there are. What does it mean, Mr Mitarakis, is a special provision that it is not subject to any reservation, to the end of a contribution, to the extent that the guaranteed debts are not frozen, to the extent that they are not offset? In other words, those who take money, this freshly cut money that comes to Greece for illegal immigrants, that money comes here and those who trade with it will not be taxed. Awesome! Racism against all the other companies of Greek taxpayers, unfair competition. Incredible things! Can it be excluded? I mean, I have a hotel and it will give me customers ready, get the illegal immigrants to put them in and you will get the warm money of the European Union and the Greeks who pay, because the Greeks are involved in it and will not even be taxed. How is that possible, Mr. Metarakis? It's unbelievable. I wonder how you have the courage to bring this shame to the Greek Parliament in the midst of pandemic and in the midst of economic destruction and incarceration. It's unbelievable. How do you do that? You don't believe us? Mr Metarakis, ask the Members of the New Democracy if they did not have the party line - and I challenge them - how many of them would vote for this amendment?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u50	Have you finished asking questions, Mr. Heta?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u51	I have two - three more questions, Mr President, and I shall end. Your only premier, Mr. Mitaraki, is the risk of evicting asylum seekers? Are we serious? While we have earthquake bulbs who live in tents and while the auctions start and the world loses their homes, Greek citizens, your caring and cut is not to lose their homes the asylum seekers? Is that possible? Will you take the Greeks' houses? I will not say about the studies, studies that go directly with 6 million euros, direct assignments, I will not say about the money to the municipalities you will give with this program, which will be taken by the municipalities and proceed to recruitment, Mr Mitaraki, apart from ASP, get 50, get 100, get 150, do a job. That's what's gonna happen now. A million-dollar-dollar-dollar-dollar party for asylum-seekers. Get that embarrassment back! And if you don't believe us, ask your party MPs. Take the amendment back now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u52	Here, Mr. Mitarakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u53	First of all, I would like to say that I fully agree with Mr Loverdos on the question of the timing of tabling amendments. And I have sought in the four years that I have been in the government headquarters, always to testify to the committee. I apologise for not being possible for technical reasons today. Well, you're absolutely right. The right place to discuss the amendments, when they are needed and trying to do so by this government and tabling fewer than historically tabled, must be in the committee for the most part. That is what I agree with you as an older colleague you are right about. On the subject of the provision - the provision as I have told you in my position copied with Article 131 of Law 4764/20 - which concerns hotels in the 'Tourism for All' programme in order to have a stable framework for this special management at this difficult time that we are experiencing today. In total, the beneficiaries of the ESTIA programme are twenty-six. I'll testify, I don't have them ready, I'll testify within the day. There are fourteen municipalities...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u54	Will you testify?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u55	Of course, we're giving it up. All of this comes out at the "GENERAL". It is not something that does not come out of “TRAINING”.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u56	Have they come out in "GENERAL"?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u57	Sure. Every contract made comes under "TRAINING". All contracts subject to the financing shall be referred to as ‘TRAINING’. They are fourteen municipalities and twelve Greek non-profit companies. The problem has arisen only with the municipalities. The municipalities have the issue because of their development companies, which have historical debts, which have been regulated but have created a problem of retention which has prevented them from fulfilling their obligations under the programme, so that they have been able to come out of the programme and create a great deal of issues. So I'm going to testify to that. The 'ESSTIA' programme is the only programme we have in housing, which concerns external providers. So we testify for our only asylum seekers' hospitality program. The majority of asylum seekers are in hospitality structures, the thirty-nine hospitality structures that exist in our country. I reply to Mr Heta, who always has an intense look when he tries to present issues relating to the refugee issue, at some point I imagine also to create impressions. I understand that it disturbs you that this amendment concerns immigration, because I did not find myself in the Minutes of the House to have said the same when the order of December was tabled, which created exactly the same issue for the Greek hotels, which participated in the "Tourism For All". But here, the people receiving European funds are the municipalities, the municipal companies, who pay Greek landlords who provide housing services. Do you think it is not about the public interest to find people on the road while their temporary housing is paid by the European Commission? Furthermore, that provision does not change the tax treatment of providers or final beneficiaries, i.e. landlords pay a normal rent tax, hotel owners pay normal taxes. It refers to the payment by the European Commission without reservation. It is the same provision as for hotels from 2020 for the ‘Tourism For All’ programme. It does not concern final taxation, which is not affected. I say this because there is already a radio in Thessaloniki that says there is a special tax regime for NGOs. That's not true. The provision does not interfere with the substance of the tax treatment, which remains exactly the same. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the list of speakers. We invite Mr. Michael Katrin to the Step by the Change Movement. Mr Maraveyas from New Democracy will be followed by the Parliamentary Representative of SYRIZA Mr Tsakalotos, Ms Papanatsiou and then by the Parliamentary Representative of the Change Movement Mr Scandalidis. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, two days after the ruthless statements by the Government of Ministers for the Opening of the market on 22 March, the Prime Minister announced today a package of measures to support entrepreneurship. Obviously, Mr Mitsotakis realized that the trade in hope of his ministers for the forthcoming opening up of the market is not believed by the commercial world, also taking into account the objective, the rapid deterioration in the health situation. So let's see, the miserable opposition, as Mr Mitsotakis called us, what the Prime Minister has announced and which measures he has announced today are indeed new measures. To start with the 30% to 50% exemption of the first three cycles of the returnee. A sound measure that relieves a part of the business, as it concerns about a hundred and twenty thousand of the five hundred thousand in total that have received the aid. It's a good measure, though. We have already requested it in November and have requested that 50% of the amount should not be reimbursed from the first three cycles of the returnee. It is, of course, a good thing, as is the increase in repayment doses. It is an indirect injection of liquidity, which, of course, is not immediate, is projected in the future. Secondly, he announced a new circle of returnees in April, which Mr Stagioras specialised in EUR 1 billion. Ladies and gentlemen, the announcements on the enlargement of the circle of beneficiaries are certainly desirable in order to cover all those affected by the pandemic. We've heard it too many times to this day. The reality, however, shows something quite different. In the last two cycles of returning nearly six out of ten companies were rejected, since the accession criteria are announced after applications. So what's the government doing? It sets the accession criteria, obviously on the basis of the resources available - that is objective and understandable - but it changes the criteria. I mean, in the first three circles, he had a 10 percent tick drop. Then he decided to put 20% of the cigarette drop, excluding one of the companies that have a cigarette drop, but which do not have 20% cigarette drop and at the same time - and this is announced by the Prime Minister today - the coverage of the rental business that may have an increased turnover continues, but is part of the CIS affected. Two yards and two stations! We therefore insist that it be examined - we have asked for it many times in this Chamber - where the money of the first six cycles and in general the liquidity programmes and through the Greek Development Bank has gone. In addition, the ninth Commission monitoring report points out that large firms doubled credit flows, which most of which were deposited in bank accounts. It is right that the announcement of aid of EUR 100,000 per business in the seventh circle of returnees should be made, Mr Minister, and that aid per firm as a whole has been received to date, because there are companies that have reached 800,000 in aid and by your decision you are able to increase these amounts even more and of course per company category. The same concern concerns the aid measure through fixed costs, announced by the Prime Minister today. Of course, it has been passed by the House for almost a month. That is the amount of aid up to EUR 10 million per company, while the total amount available does not exceed EUR 500 million. Therefore, it is visible that the money or much of the money will end up in a few and large businesses. Indeed, if I understood correctly, Minister, will this aid not take the form of direct liquidity but of credit voucher to offset insurance and tax obligations that will be caused or which are already existing? Actually, what does the state do? It comes out of one pocket and gives businesses to pay back the state and the insurance funds. It comes out of one pocket and gives it to the other. And in order to put the real dimension of the sizes, there is a EUR 500 million programme, which will be allocated to offset tax and insurance obligations, which, as a whole, exceed EUR 145 billion. On this occasion, I would like to comment on the regulation of pandemic debts and their transfer to 1-1-2022. You carried the regulated debts in March there. But all in all, Minister, your arrangements relate to the 1.5 billion debts, debts created in the pandemic by the total of 145 billion owed by our fellow citizens to tax and insurance funds. We have made a proposal. We ask for a hundred and twenty instalments for all of the obligations in tax and insurance funds, with 30% haircuts for those who comply with the regulation. You insist on twenty-four, forty-eight more instalments, when you also have a delay of revenue and an increase in due time. For the GEOFERRA programme, it is very positive that red loans have been integrated and are rightly subsidised at a lower rate than the loans served. If, however, the criteria are not changed, the very strict criteria imposed by the banks for subjecting red companies to the programme, which at least the government tolerates, will be left out of the question. In addition, more than 90% of those receiving a grant were eligible for housing loans. And there are no few of those we are talking about. According to the Bank of Greece data, 55% of free professionals and micro-enterprises had a non-performing loan in September 2020. And we're talking about 55% of the bank loans. Because if we add to the business loans, which are in the services, you can understand that the percentage is much higher. Ladies and gentlemen, I think that the government should bring in a more comprehensive package of support, with two axes: one axe, it will be the real liquidity support for businesses, especially the smallest, who are most affected in this crisis. The second one must be a long-term debt arrangement so that businesses can respond to and strengthen public revenues and do not continue to increase dues. Because of the way private debt is managed over the next period, I think it will be decided whether or not we will have the entrepreneurship and whether and how many thousands of jobs will be lost on the market. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, I would like the floor to answer Mr Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u61	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u62	Mr President, because you have referred to all of you in this speech outside the draft law - there was no mention of the draft law, if I understood it correctly about other things - I would ask you to read the communications that we have made later on, because they give answers to all that you were wrong to say. There's nowhere for 10 million, we've announced 1.5 million. We have announced specific income criteria for GEOGRAPHY. We've announced eligibility. We've announced number of operations covered. Please read and then place. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u63	Mr Maraveyas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Council decision, with the active involvement of our country this time, taken last December in relation to the European Union's own resources system, marked a new beginning for the Community budget. This new beginning is coming today for Parliament to ratify, in order for Greece to join the new financial framework, which has specific characteristics. It will be an enlarged and increased European aid programme, of which the country has many positive things to expect, such as the Union's multiannual financial framework for the years 2021-2027 and the recent establishment of the European Recovery Fund, which has valuable resources totalling EUR 72 billion. In practice this means a new ESDP but also new financial instruments for farmers and productive enterprises. Above all, however, it involves creating the Recovery Fund, the tool that will reverse the financial consequences of the pandemic and enable Greece to follow the fourth industrial revolution. This is therefore a huge risk, for precisely this joint initiative of the twenty-seven Member States of the European Union will shape the future of the European people as a whole. Therefore, it will directly and indirectly define the economic prospects of all Greek citizens. Minister, it is true that the government has handled both the negotiation at European Union level and our national planning to make use of these new resources. I would remind the Pissaridis Commission, the special agency for the management of the Recovery Fund at the Ministry of Finance and, of course, the systematic work in all the European institutions. At this point one might consider what would have happened if instead of Mr. Mitsotakis it was Alexis Tsipras. And, of course, I am not only talking about the fiasco of the 'premier' 17-hour negotiation, nor even about the continuing deception of the Greek people. Above all, I am talking about the enormous lack of knowledge and administrative capacity that you have shown, colleagues of the SYRIZA, in the five years that you have been in power. Because the negative results of SYRIZA governance as well as the positive results of the New Democracy governance for the country only accidentally did not come and despite the great adversities that have arisen. It is abruptly the seriousness, professionalism and the sense of responsibility that the current government shows and the previous one has not shown. I would remind you that Mr Polakis, who also served as the Deputy Minister, who, after the agreement on the EUR 72 billion that the country has achieved, was posting and criticizing it. His reasoning was, if we can say so, that the government was showing false figures. Who systematically made wrong calculations, politicians and other kinds, the Greek people decided at the right time and to be sure that when the time comes, they will reappraise it. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that these new resources available to the Member States by the European Union must come from somewhere. And that is what this bill ensures, which brings about the revised way in which the Union budget is financed. From now on, the European Commission has been able to borrow funds from markets to support national budgets. So the Commission can now borrow up to EUR 750 billion from the markets, because of the pandemic crisis. Of these, up to 360 billion can be used to provide loans to enterprises, and the remaining 390 billion are intended for grants from the European Recovery and Resilience Fund. Accordingly, Greece will also be strengthened in a forward-looking way in many areas: research, innovation, economic and social cohesion, environmental protection, rational use of natural resources, migration and security. Another way of permanent financing the European Union budget is ensured through an increase in the ceilings on the Union's own resources to 1.40% of European gross domestic income, and by a temporary increase of 0.6% to cover the European Union's obligations to deal with the pandemic. Also, simplification with the 0.3% rate for all Member States on total VAT revenue leads to easier calculation by the European Union of this resource and, of course, the introduction of a new resource on unrecycled plastics, which is not only a measure to strengthen the Community budget but also encourages both the reduction of pollution from plastic waste and the cyclical economy. Mr President, the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the establishment of a direct financial intervention tool, such as the Recovery Fund, marks the Union's recognition of the exceptional circumstances affecting all Member States. This is not only about the economic consequences of the coronary pandemic, because it is, in fact, a series of internal security issues facing all twenty-seven countries and public health is only one of our common challenges for the future. Of course, the urgency in our case is to end the health crisis and its effects on the economy, and that is why the 32 billion new funding is intended for projects that should have started by 31 December 2023. They will, however, continue to be successful 2020 measures, such as non-refundable support, repayable advance, guarantees for new loans, interest payable from earlier loans to businesses. The government's efforts are, of course, not confined to them alone. Care for employment, support for green digital transition, the promotion of private investment, the real transformation of the Greek economy are strategic goals of the New Democracy and Prime Minister himself. They are part of a national recovery plan, which will lead us to overcome the current crisis, but also to something more important, to the creation of a different, more resilient and more productive Greece. A modern state, which will meet the demands of the new era. A society that feels security and optimism for the future. This very hopeful prospect is perhaps the best way to start the third century of the modern Greek state. At the same time, however, we commit that the two centuries that we celebrate from the National Palagheesia will be the headline of the best Greece in which our children want to live. Thank you for the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u65	I call on Mr Tsakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. In the first part of the draft European budget, we would vote 'in favour'. It's sad for us that you put it in an unrelated bill. Nevertheless, I have to tell you that Europe and the Eurozone in particular over the next ten years are in a very difficult position. Our view - and I would like you to - is that monetary union, the single currency, in other words, cannot function with economies that have a discrepancy. My prediction of this is that we will constantly have a divergence in European economies. And without a larger budget that works as an automatic stabilisation, it is very difficult to see how this situation will be reversed. And because you are the European People's Party and the European People's Party is against the great budget, you need to see what position you will have in these great debates that will be held. Because, with a divergence from European economies, Europe's policy will continue to be indifferent, as there will be more and more middle and popular strata that will be despaired. We see this hormoneization in Greece as well. Because orbanisation was when you voted for the police at the universities. This is what we saw last week. Orbanisation is to have the Ministry Pro. Poss. the penitentiary system, not the Ministry of Justice, has the education of prisons and not the Ministry of Education. It's not the right direction. The reaction won't come in a moment. He didn't even come to Hungary in a moment. With many small steps the authoritarianism of Orban has come and I think that only if Europe changes direction will we avoid it. I don't know if another party will come from you who will be genuine Orban or if you're slowly mutating in this direction. Now we're going to the second part of the bill for the HFSF. We have made clear our position that we are in favour of the participation of the CFSF in an increase in equity. Mr. Karagunis isn't right that it couldn't be done before that. There was a 'grey zone', and we discussed it with Mr Zavvos. So we have no problem specifying that. It is not right, of course, that what Mr Karagunis said was a lie, that we, our government, had the opportunity to sell less than the price of acquisition and the financial value. Look at L.4254/2014. We did not change that. So you're not right about that. After all, what argument is that? Because we did this, do you now immunize the CFS people so they can keep doing this? That doesn't make any sense. So we should not confront this issue. We're going to immunity. Again, Mr. Karragunis was not right to say that the Arena Ice had ruled for this thing. It's not true. You are talking about an errand, a court ruling on a specific criminal case. Contrary to what has been said, there are other cases, and you have not mentioned it. This issue will be judged by the Ice Bay plenary and has not been judged so far. So, in this part we are vertically against this immunity and it has nothing to do with the protection that we have given to people working in the bank, in the public sector, to be able when they follow a proper process of debt restructuring. Because there was a problem there, that people were afraid to sign a debt restructuring, because they were afraid of malicious sues. I am therefore returning to public participation in increasing the share capital. In my view, it lacks half the bill or at least it lacks the preparation of your strategy. You say that he can participate - well you do and you do - but you do not tell us what your strategy is. So, is there a floor? The government won't go under 30%? Won't he go under 60 percent? Is there a limit? You want some participation? Shouldn't we know how you see it, so we can vote for the bill? Mr Zavvos told us 'as soon as disinvestment is possible and the state cannot be a banker'. I will remind you, Mr Zabwe, with all my appreciation to your face and you know that the 2009 crisis has not been made by public banks. Isn't that right? Lehman Brothers was not a public bank, nor was it a public bank problem with the northern banks in Europe. So we say that the state needs to have a presence. We say that a bank must be a pillar of state involvement in the banking system, not with the old client policy, but so that we can influence policy in the good sense, how you help the economy, what development priorities are. That is why we believe that you are not responding to this and causing us many problems. That is why I made the suggestion when we discuss the bank's institutional role, see if it can. Why would you disagree about what I said about a public pillar, I imagine or hope you agree that it cannot be sold in the near future with the prices available? That would be disastrous. So we are not talking about selling in one, two, three years, I imagine, given the situation and the European economy and the Greek economy. To be able to take the HFSF to the Development Fund, the Supreme Court as it is called, is a proposal. Finally, we think you should have done more things faster for the CFS. I don't see why the CFS regime should not be changed to the banks' boards. It's unacceptable to have 60% and have a representative. I do not see why you cannot change something that has been imposed on us so that the bank boards are not pluralistic and only people from the financial sector. I don't think that you couldn't change it. Thirdly, as we have discussed in committee, there is a problem that we have identified in our four years, an administration of the CFS which you may have to look at. It wasn't functional. It is a costly institution and has functional problems. I would like to return, however, to the point Mr Karagunis has said today, that he does not want to raise the past. He raised it, of course, and was the big part of his speech in committee about who is to blame for these things, about the banking system and SYRIZA's responsibilities, and he goes by saying. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, if you have your Moses who solves everything, apparently, we have Adam, that is, we have Alexis Tsipras. And I say Adam, because it seems from all your speeches, there is no story of this state before Alexis Tsipras. There's no story! There was a paradise that you make all right and suddenly Alexis Tsipras came and got us out of heaven. There was no bankruptcy in 2009-2010. There was no first memorandum, which, as we talk about the banking system, saved the banks of the north and had nothing to do with saving the Greek economy. There was no 25% fall in GDP. There wasn't even the PSI that turned a public debt into debt and bank problem. There was no PSI, that didn't change. There was nothing at all - and the figures Mr Stakoras gives us - that in 2015, from some 49 billion in state participation until then, it fell to 26 billion. None of this was there. There was no informal departure, your departure in the summer of 2014, for you did not close the fifth rating cynically, for you left empty funds, for you left an unregulated debt, for we all know that no bank can have more credibility than the credibility of the state. And, of course, at our time, the value of public shares in banks has also been reduced. But with this prehistoric history. And like every Adam, there's a forefatheric sin. What is Mr. Tsipras' preparatory sin then as Head of SYRIZA and now as Head of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance? It was to question, as Mr Simitis would say, the legitimate owners of the country. That was what bothered you then and now, that SYRIZA then questioned the legitimate owners, that SYRIZA said ending with the client state, as you built it forty years with so much love and so much care, said end to these inequalities that existed before the memorandum and we have to deal with them, that this whole movement against the memorials and the status quo of Europe. I'll give you a parentheses, because I see you're looking at me, Mr. Scandalidis. I predict that the Greek social democracy cannot be recovered, yours, unless you review your relationship with the squares. There cannot be a social democratic party that cannot be heard - in its own way, whether critical or non-critical - of the inequalities that a society lives. You can't do it. That's what SYRIZA did. That is why you have such hatred for SYRIZA, because it is precisely because it called into question this regime that you have been building for for forty years, which has been failing us, which has reduced 25% of income. And since you're questioning it, you have to say other things. You have to say that SYRIZA is the one who directs the protests of the world, SYRIZA, who supports the protests, because it is the covid. It's not about covid that you did nothing for our hospitals after the first wave, it's not about what's going on in buses, it's not about what's going on in schools! It's because of SYRIZA supporting these demonstrations. What are you waiting for? Do you expect people to be beaten and not react? Is that what you expect after what happened on Sunday? SYRIZA was too clean for the cop, who we hope and think will go very well. Violence doesn't respond to violence, it's a source of violence. From that point on, however, you must look at your own responsibilities. This criticism you are making to SYRIZA, whether for covid or for the demonstrations, will not take you forward, because we are again at a time when the world is seeing deadlocks. And when people see dead ends, they go on the road. And when he goes on the road, there must be political forces - and that is why I am talking about the JRC, and I am talking about Mera25 - who do not forsake indifferently and say 'we have disagreements between us, we cannot participate', but they are at least for the support of the public sector in health, for the support of industrial relations, for the reversal of inequalities. SYRIZA is here, along with the Progressive Alliance, and will listen again to the agony of this people, who once again bring him to a dawn. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr. Chakaloto. The President of the Group of the European People's Party, Mr Varoufakis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, if you see us - if you see us - from the channel of the House, I will begin with this: Minister, if the answer to the bankrupt system is the articles of your draft Financial Stability Fund, then the question raised by the Government, Mr Stakoras, is a skeptic, suspicious and disrespectful one for the social interest. If the solution you give to public property is the articles of the government bill on the excess, then the problem is you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, or, anyway, the troika and the oligarchal interests of your threads. Today, with this bill, which is not the only one, it's one of the bills you legalize gangs that break public property. You are being expelled to new heights of authoritarianism and immunity while you are being charged to new depths of incapacity and inefficiency. And all that under a veil of silence. No one out there is in danger of discovering the legislative cover you give to gangs of bankers and, in general, public property. And how do you do that? You achieve this by strengthening social peace by gangling the Greek Police and trying, through this process, to gangle, to divide the Greek people. You want broken windows, you want wounded, you want blood so that the channels of mass deception produce the maximum noise Mr. Mitsotakis and his plus, to cover up the gangs you are squeezing with your bills. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] Financial Stability Fund: Let's talk about this. What was his role? Its role in 2012 was to rescue bankers while the banks sink. You took 41 billion on behalf of Greek and Greek taxpayers, you took them from the troika to give them to banks, as this money would be lost. I've said it and I'll say it again. It was like a drill that you're throwing water over. The holes were the ‘red’ loans. You chose to give billions to the bankers, knowing that the stock exchange value will disappear as long as these "red" loans were black holes that absorbed what the Greek people sent in there. The Financial Stability Fund was never a fund. A fund, a fund, is hedge fund, everything you can imagine, aims to get some risks to maximize its profit. The objective of the Financial Stability Fund from the outset was how to lose the Financial Stability Fund. Its aim was to damage the public sector on the part of the bankers. It was from the outset a Housing Fund, HSF, covering a process of financing bankers at the expense of banks, at the expense of the Greek private economy, at the expense of the Greek State, at the expense of European taxpayers. That was his target. You obviously set it up - you were in government at the time - in 2012, to lose the public. Of course, since then, with the blessings and support of the troika you have put immunity within the legal framework of the CFS for its executives. Obviously. You hire people with wages of up to EUR 210,000 a year. When I instructed the Ministry of Finance to reduce by 40% this wage, Mr. Vizer and the other troikas, who were normally supposed to be cut for the costs of the Greek State, came to me and threatened me by the end of the negotiations if I did not dismiss the reduction of these gross wages to officials who were meant to be harmed by the Greek State! That was their target. Of course you also gave them immunity in 2012. Now you come to "suspinate" the immunity, to make it irresistible. Why? As part of the new chain with Piraeus Bank. Remind those who do not remember it from those who see us from their homes, the few who see the channel of the Parliament, because those on the channels of mass deception will never be heard, that Piraeus Bank essentially re-stated it using what Mr Tsakalotos had passed in 2015, that is, the conversion of a loan by the Greek State into shares, with the loss of enormousity for the Greek state. We were forced, due to the Troika clause imposed on Mr. Tsakalotos in October 2015, to pass for Piraeus Bank to buy ten, twelve times more expensive shares of Piraeus Bank. You are now aiming to give the opportunity, in essence, to the Financial Stability Fund, apologise, to the Housing Fund, as I should call it once again, not to participate in the moves that were necessary to keep the percentage of the Greek public. And you want him to give them the impunity. What does it mean, ladies and gentlemen? It means there is no possibility for the prosecutor to investigate whether the public was damaged. Basically you put backs on gangs that you are setting up in the framework of a ten-year process of bracelet of the Greek public. In this context, Mr Staikora, you have engaged in a hopeless attempt to cover up the truth, escaping from reality. You're being disgusted by mass deception. And unfortunately, you're even more smiling by the Trojan ELSTAT. Elstat dares - listen, listen! - to declare that unemployment has fallen in Greece lately. If that's possible! He dared to humiliate the OAED of yours by saying that hundreds of thousands of reported unemployed in the OAED are not unemployed since the ELSTAT data on unemployment show hundreds of thousands of less than the OAED. So they're not unemployed. They're stealing the OAED! Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stakoura, a year ago when the pandemic broke out, we were in here. You said that it would be 0% of GDP cut or increase and five weeks later you said 'father, it would go to 3%'. About a year ago, about today, your ELSTAT, or the troika, to be more precise, said that the national gross product, the country's GDP in 2019, was 187,7 billion. If you asked ELSTAT last year how much GDP was in 2019, she would say to you "187,7 billion". A year ago, I told you that with this pandemic, we would be very lucky if it did not reduce our GNP to 169 billion and reduce it to somewhere. I thought it would go under 169 billion, or 10%. You were then talking about 0% to 3%, that is, you thought it would drop to a maximum of 182 billion to 170 billion. The GDP came out of your own ELSTAT now: 165,8 billion, i.e. a 11.7% fall compared to 2019 GDP as we discussed it last year. And you went out, Mr Stakoura, to celebrate the good performance of your GDP and ask people to glorify you! Did you predict that - do you remember that? until recently you anticipated it - there would have been a recession in 2020, but in 2021 we would have growth, and at the end of 2021 the country's GDP would have been higher than 2019's GDP. Didn't you say so? Are you still saying such things? I don't think so. Mr Stavoura, you do not hesitate to sever the country with a new 'grek statistics'. It's unbelievable what you're doing. Firstly, with your ELSTAT, the troika - once again I correct myself - in order to reduce the 2020 recession, you received the GDP of 2019 from 187,7 billion, and you reduced it to 183 billion so that the 2020 recession would appear less than in 2019. But in order to be able to drop the 2019 GDP from 187,7 billion to 183 billion without showing that there was a huge recession in the country in 2019 compared to 2018, which we know was not there, you reduced the GDP of 2018, 2017, 2016, 2015, 2014, 2013, 2012, 2011 and 2010! This has never been done in the history of global statistical science! And don't tell me that the base year has changed, because you will once again state your ignorance. The base year has nothing to do with nominal GDP. It is about deflation of GDP. You, ELSTAT did this for nominal GDP. It has never been done before, to change the nominal GDP figures for ten years. And that's not good enough for you. Do this too: I have warned you for a long time not to do so, because you are being exposed, but continue to do so. You remove deflation from the recession, because with ELSTAT's terminals again, it is 9.8% of GDP reduction at nominal prices, at current prices. What are you doing? You remove inflation, which is because it is negative. When you remove a negative number, you add something. So minus 10 did it minus 8.2. Actually, what you're doing is going to the man out there who has a huge fall of his GDP, of his staff, of his own income, and you say to him: "Yes, but the prices have fallen. So you may have lost 10%, 20% of your income, but because prices have fallen on average 1.5%, that 1.5% I will remove it from your recession." Most people out there, Mr Stakoura, if you don't understand - which you certainly don't understand - go to the supermarket and things are more expensive for him. There's no negative inflation. Negative inflation is held by the inhabitants of the northern suburbs. Do you want to have a conversation? Let's do it another time. However, I have warned you that with the application of the new "grek statistics" we have seen and suffered the credibility of the Greek macroeconomic data system and you are undermining it once again. George Papandreou had said that numbers prosper and people suffer. Under the new EPE, yours, both people and numbers suffer. And in your attempt to cover up this you choose to split as your strategic choice. We're in a pandemic weather. We have continuous lockdown, the hardest in Europe because you have failed so badly to do what we have been telling you since the first time - we had supported you in the first - a real public mass test system, a real mass vaccination system, which would also be a dowry for the National Health System, primary care. You've been talking about a thousand vaccine centers, too. We saw them! You are facing pandemic as a government-coffee, hoping for these total bans and for their growing authoritarian enforcement. Have you lost, have you realised? You have lost your credibility in the world, even in your own voters. They don't believe you anymore. They see that authoritarianism is a substitute for strengthening public health that you have never done, that you have chosen not to do because you have made commitments to private clinical authorities not to do. In this context, then, you are applying the new freckles. Sophia Sakorafa, the Vice-President of the Parliament, asked a topical question about the new entrepreneurial file. Will you ever answer her? You are a party that you had already enjoyed at some point when you had burned off the envelopes in the "HALYBOURGIKI". Today you are applying a new freckle, which we see through your trolls online in the context of a bisecting policy. Instead of "law and order" in Exarchia, someone simply watching TV has every reason to imagine that Exarches opened franchise in New Smyrna! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Nothing like that happened, of course. Just put it right in your mind, the people who came out to Nea Smyrna on the road said one thing: "You won't beat us in our neighborhoods." Mr Chrysochoidis has launched gang-groups of special guards against families and peaceful citizens. Your aim, Mr. Chrysochoids, is to divide ourselves as Greek women, to divide ourselves as Greeks on a vulgar basis to choose our victims. My victim against your victim. The Prime Minister came out with this incredible proclamation after the police's injury, which we all regret and which we all condemn, 'our victim'. We do not accept that there are our own victims and your own victims. Whether the victim is the victim of police violence or a police officer, he is the victim of a division and a division that you have designed only to prevent society from discussing what you are legislating here against her. You even divide the police, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, with the democratic police right now pulling their hair. I am reading an excerpt from the announcement by the Democratic Union Police Movement entitled 'Do not target us any more'. The police say: "In order for the government to implement its repressive and unprecedented policy, it puts us outrageously against the citizens at a time when social equilibrium is, moreover, precarious due to prolonged incarceration. In fact, the special police services which were pre-trained by untrained staff and as they have ever been strengthened against the departments..." - you divide the police, Minister - "have been guided by improper repression on top with subsequent arbitrary acts that are burdening the leadership, whose arguments are not convinced of anyone." I am reading another quote from another announcement - a complaint from the police initiative, saying: “They have multiplyed incidents with fascist symbols in uniforms and helmets. We cannot remain indifferent and indifferent when fascists and extreme rightists and other reactionaries appear among us with hatred against the people. We are addressing colleagues, simple police officers. Nothing separates us from the people. Today or tomorrow may be our mother, our father, our wife, our husband, our child. They're our families. We live the same suffering, the same agony. We must respect their right to protest, to claim a better life.' In this polarization, ladies and gentlemen of the government, in this division bipartisanism is your ally. You show up, you try, you fight to show SYRIZA to the mobilizer of the protests, because you want polarization. You want the bicommunism. You want the duo. You want discord. At the same time, Mr Mitsotakis seems to be living in another country. He presents himself as a proclaimer of leaders, from one proclamation to another. One must explain from you that we live in parliamentary democracy, that we have neither an emperor nor a king nor a president in a presidential system. Who are you, Mr Mitsotakis, who, instead of responding to Parliament, do you go out every little bit and a little while and speak with professors on television to the people? Tomorrow morning there will be a particular dialogue which violates Parliament's Rules of Procedure. There has just been the Conference of Presidents of the Parliament, which Mr Kaklamanis admitted on behalf of the Government that the Rules of Procedure of the House will be violated. Parliament's Rules of Procedure for the Prime Minister's time says something very specific, that when he comes, he answers at least two questions. Two questions were asked for tomorrow, one from Mr. Tsipras and one from me. He will only answer one, because he chooses opponents, he chooses not to answer my own question for Mr Chrysochide. The specific question is: Does he know the role of Mr Chrysochide in the diffusion of the positive women in 2012 again from the same post of the Minister for Civil Protection? If he knows, does he think it was moral and legal what Mr Chrysochoidis had done then? Does the choice of having him head of the evacuation of this police force signal that it is precisely because he has dragged the positive women away, does it have all the guarantees for Mr. Mitsotakis to create conditions of civil war in that country? Mr Mitsotakis will not answer tomorrow, violating Parliament's Rules of Procedure. According to what Mr. Cllon Gregoriadis has brought me, my colleague, the attendant, was "the Prime Minister does what he wants". No, ladies and gentlemen! There is a Rules of Parliament, there is a Constitution, there are laws. You think you can do whatever you want. We won't allow you to do that. We will denounce you to the public, which you are trying to keep completely isolated from the gratuities you are doing here, both through your bills and by circumventing the Rules of Procedure of this House. Tomorrow you'll have this operatta in here. I call on the Civic Opposition, Mr. Tsipras, not to come, if he wishes not to squeeze this planned circumvention of the Rules of Procedure of the House. You are well suited by the cohort, because the silence of SYRIZA suits you on the subject that we have raised for the file of bankruptcy and memorials. It suits you the fact that SYRIZA KITH does not say about the real objective of establishing the Financial Stability Fund, and about the excess that he has passed, and about the "HRAKLE". They speak of SYRIZA's friends for the protection of first residence, but when we say that there is no protection of any residence, if the sale of red loans to the predators does not stop there. It suits you, we understand that. How long? This 'how much more' that comes out of the mouths of more and more citizens is what will ultimately prevent you. Recapitalising, in 2012, instead of a Financial Stability Fund, you set up this Judas Spreading Fund against the public. In 2015, you of SYRIZA joined the supranational fund, giving the obscene cover of the break-up of public money "left legalisation". With your continued silence today, you contribute to a new appearance, what you will allow me to name a Wholesale Couple, Coverage and Consensus Fund. Today, Mr. Stakoras comes with the impunity of the executives who will give billions of taxpayers billions to the bankers, upgrade it to a battalion, not a fund, a Debt Communism Order. On the one hand, it is your gang that will carry billions of Greek government to the bankers, to Piraeus, to the owners of Piraeus. How's he gonna make it? Behind the veil of silences the noise created by the gangs of Mr Chrysochide, I have succeeded in the semi-democratic police action, the 'DRANS', ex-DELTA, to beat, beat, beat social peace, so that the citizens out there do not learn the disgrace you are doing in here, Mr. Georgiadis last week who made public suppliers evaluate themselves, you today and who knows what to bring us in a week. SYRIZA's colleagues, I know that you have been paralysed by "yes" in all", in TXS, in the superstition, in "HRAKLI". But a few days ago, on Saturday night with the events in Nea Smyrna, I invited you and your colleagues to coordinate our actions to defend the basic demands of a democracy. You didn't answer. At political cost, I call you again. As far as the JRC's colleagues are concerned, yes, colleagues of the JRC do not want top-level agreements to rinse out previous governments, such as SYRIZA. We don't want it either. But now is the time for concerted action against the State - a terrorist - predator of this government. Why? Because we have an obligation to answer the world out there asking: How much more? How much longer will they beat us to our neighborhoods, supposedly, to save us from the coronary? While in fact all they care about really is the disorientation of public opinion from today's bracelet Mr. Stagiras, last week Mr. Georgiadis and a god knows who else next week from the vaccination scandal, from their choice not to support the National Health System. Mr. Stavura, I know very well what you're going to say when you get the floor. You'll put the tape back in '15. Don't you dare. If it hits you, I've caused you: an '15 exam committee. Do you want it? What you have threatened me for so many years, please, I invite you and I tell you to do it. But you're a coward, and you won't, just like you haven't done for so long. Why? Because you know who the guilty ones are. You're the guilty ones. We say everything to the light. Do you want to? If you want to, we're here. If you don't want to be quiet. As Gabels' cripple, you say a great lie and repeat it again and again and you hide behind it. And when we ask for the examination, you whistle indifferently. That's enough! In the question of young people and the largest citizens out there who wisely reject the civil climate that you are creating, the citizens who are asking how much longer they will ask us to choose between our wounded and their wounded ones, and who knows later - I hope that we in Mera25 will not be - and the dead, we are unitedly insisting, despite our hard criticism and attitude toward you. We insist, in the midst of the new division that the New Democracy sows, that we also turn the hand to the worst enemies of civilization and democracy. Besides, nothing is more mad at them than treating them human beings. The progressive party in this country has a tradition of human treatment and even monsters. In the face of Mr Mitsotakis' attempt to force us to divide between those who are with Koufontina and those who are against Koufantina - as if that is what we are asking - those who are with the victims of the police violence or the police officer who has fallen victim to violence, we say no. We remember what Natasa Mertika said when she found out that the archebasaist of the junta was murdered by '17 November'. Natasa Mertika, who had been tortured by Malio, said: “Never in my life was happy for the death of any creature. Why would I be happy now? I went out and told my friends to kill a body of fascism is just a revenge. And my ideology doesn't believe in revenge. Anyone who can and kill the threat of fascism that is lurking everywhere, that is what I will be glad to hear." For Mera25, this is the purpose, to kill the threat of gangs that you have been rearing within the state, whether it is the Financial Stability Fund or the Overseas Fund, or Mr. Chrysochide's "DRAG" without hurting either one of our fellow men or our worst enemy. Calm resistance, responsible disobedience and real solutions to the problems that you create in favour of the oligarchs who support you. That's why we're in here and out of the House. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. Good evening, too. We have a change in the line of speakers. I should like to inform you that the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, will now take the floor. Then the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stavros, will speak. And then Mrs. Papanatsiou, Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Kegeroglu and Mr. Heitas, will take the floor. The Parliamentary Representative from the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalidis, is therefore called at Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u70	Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bit difficult after Mr Varoufakis to follow the same lead and make the same findings or the opposite findings. That is why I would like to make a general comment on the violence issue. We are in a really very critical period of time for the course, not only of Greek but of European things. The other day we heard that a meeting of the European Commission is planned for the future, for 2022 and 2023, to discuss the changes to be made to the European Union by putting the objectives of policy, climate change, the environment, the European economy for the needs of all countries and social justice. All this will be put into a debate now and for the next two years. My conclusion is that the speed at which Europe is moving is out of place and time. The procedures initiated do not go hand in hand with the tectonic changes currently taking place. The progressive forces have a duty to give a great battle to speed up procedures and to put matters to the right dimension. Europe needs a change in the treaty itself, because the Maastricht era has been driven through this whole process of the last decades at the end of the year. The most characteristic case is what we are discussing today, the consistent claim to the spectacular increase in the Union's own resources and their fairer distribution. The percentages we are discussing and decided on by the European Union do not respond to the problem sufficiently. The distribution must be carried out at the same time in two objectives and guidelines: and to strengthen the Union as an entity in global competition and at the same time aim at removing the consequences of unequal exchange between the south and the north symmetrically, in other words promoting convergence of levels of development. The question is, then, how does the acceleration of integration procedures combine with so-called deepening? And here, in our opinion, the strategic debate in the European area over the coming critical years of the Union's progress is. The increase from 1.23% to 1.40% for credits and payments and the increase from 1.29% to 1.66% for commitments substantially adds the funds to tackle the pandemic and the Recovery Fund. To understand and compare the figures, for 2021 the European Union has a budget of EUR 164 billion for commitments and EUR 166 billion for payments with a total GDP of around EUR 15 trillion. And America, which is a federal organization - let us say - of a country, has a corresponding GDP of 23.3 trillion dollars, $3 863 billion in commitments and $4.829 billion in payments. Can you think of the future world, the multipolar world, Europe being able to stand in this process if it does not speed up developments within it? And I am talking about those who have a confidence and believe in the European idea and that in this new era, globalised, strong poles, and that Europe should be able to give a progressive response to the development of its peoples and societies in the world as a whole. So, for our country and for the progressive forces, the national claim to increase the European Union's own resources at any time every year must be permanent and combative. I remember that when I was at the Ministry of Rural Development and we were discussing the CAP today, when I asked for this process to be increased, I was referred to the budget. And when I insisted, the German Minister then replied to me: 'Get the finance ministers to convince them that they have to increase the budget'. This shows what situation Europe is today in relation to the world situation. In this context, of course, even the benefit is important for the country, because we receive very specific resources. It may have simply added the costs of dealing with the pandemic and the emergencies it gave birth, but if we are consistent with the fact that we consider the fund to be a positive resource and we cannot refuse to vote on this part of the law and are evident. Let me not remind you of the famous cartoon of the late Cypriot: "What we take is good." But that's not the logic. The logic is that we must take advantage of the historic opportunity given to the country. But if we really want to talk about a new situation, we must also talk about a progressive perspective for Europe, we must speak at this level and not lose the strategic objective. Minister, on the occasion of the debate on this bill, we should also open up the debate on the draft submitted by the Greek Government on the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. It is noted in the explanatory statement that Greece through the Multiannual Financial Framework package and the Recovery Fund will benefit from a multitude of its contributions. According to the presentation by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Sylakakis, the draft of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan took into account the mid-term report of the Pissaridis Committee. It was drawn up following evaluation and pre-selection of project proposals. He's been placed in public consultation. According to the programme announced, the consultations would be incorporated by the end of January and the evaluation of the maturity of the costs of all actions would be carried out. It was also planned that the final draft would be completed by March with the final approval expected until May. This is where a very serious matter comes in. The Government has consulted a text without quantitative objectives, timetables and real allocations and with minimal specialisation. As long as there is no consultation text for these amounts and the specific directions of a medium-term plan that one can understand and discuss the criterion of the choices of resource management, there can be no essential response to the real development of the country, where, in particular, the political forces have a different view of what the objectives should be. If you insist on this policy that 'I have the knife and melon and I decide where the resources are going', which is evident from the current moves of the government, I believe that you do not actually offer the right use of resources, so that I do not come back to my favorite issue relating to the model of governance and democratic planning. As far as the Financial Stability Fund is concerned, I have been listening all these days to this debate. Because tonight you all want to prove who it is to blame, meaning "all others are to blame except our own party", there is a proposal for the years of Mrs Gennamas. I'm surprised you don't bring her into publicity or you've forgotten her. For the past two years, Mrs Gennamas has been insisting on a committee of inquiry, to conclude with this debate, which starts with the entry of the country and the conditions that have entered EMU and the euro to date, to allocate responsibilities, not to yield criminally contributible things but to give an assessment - which we are all talking about now and say 'what happened, guys' and everyone sits in his own period and brings their own views - to prove real responsibilities if the crisis in the memoranda or the Memorandums led to the crisis, who has served and better regulated the debt. We're not in 2010. We're in 2021. And thank God many governments have passed since the government of George Papandreou in 2009-2011. All the big parties in this House have been passed by the governments. Why don't we sit here and talk soberly and see? But there's the obvious thing. The fund has established it so that the banking system doesn't collapse. All along, you've all accepted it. In the process, he had losses for his assets. It is due to mistaken handling, for us in particular in the first half of 2015. The rapporteur has said so. I will not stay on this course and the drama that the confessors have experienced, which we must confess. He has to do the best possible management - and that is the objective now - to recover part of the losses. Today's regulation gives him some possibility. On the substance, however, I am not discussing the further extension of the Fund. I don't want to add it anywhere. To discuss the abolition and transfer of his property to the State and the responsibility of the Minister of Finance, not even the Supreme Court. And the superstition, Mr Tsakaloto, must change form, change objectives and direction. Do not depend on decisions by other forces that decide on the country. In this regard, therefore, Minister, the immunity of the specific staff of the fund, with whom we are not in agreement, does not make sense today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close up on the issue of the day. In the media monophony, the communication storm and polarization that we have been living in these days, thankfully, there are cartoonists who give us a blizzard of gratitude, Hatzopoulos, Metropolis, Petrolakis, Makreis and everyone else. Every day sketches are vagueness and straightening and portraying the reality as the Makres today, for example, proclaiming the Prime Minister's new duel with the Chief of Officer's Response tomorrow. A few days ago, from this Step I had predicted and described what it would mean for the quality of democracy and public dialogue, the discussion of the Chiefs. I'm afraid I'm right. Tomorrow will be another round in the ring of polarization and division. Even our appeals no longer make sense to their ears. Today, and today, the so-called "historics" have an accusation against those who do not choose a camp. I would like to ask the Commissioner if he would be able to answer this question in writing, and I would ask him if he is prepared to do so. On the one hand, in the name of the "law and order", which is the main side of the confrontation, shows the authoritarian face of state power and consequent unpunished violence, and on the other hand in the name of freedom and right, cultivates the climate of resistance, which is likely to respond to fair demands, but gives a step to uncontrollably known and unknown evidence to resort to para-state acts that endanger lives and property. Whatever we do, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot ignore that this is double. There is no equal distance from any one of us to them. I and many fighters within the Change Movement throughout the course of PASOK have fought for these rights and we will now also give them in the future. Anyone who says no to the unpunished violence of power, not in demonstrations in this pandemic at this time of time, is 'isselves'. Well, it's not. It is at a distance from a split and a polarization that in the time of pandemic becomes more dangerous than ever. And the debate and responsibility are mainly burdened by the government, which is in fact governed by it. And it doesn't rule, Minister, with proclamations! They can't rule with proclamations. It is not possible every time we have any problem getting the Prime Minister out as a savior and giving an answer about where he will go, advise the children, the people. There are procedures, there are institutions, there are parties that must enter a public debate, which are not the ears closed, which are not deaf to each other and not everyone hears what the other says. I'm not optimistic. Tomorrow, what's going to happen here in the House? Another unconditional duel, no limits. We're used to it. Personal confrontations, responsibilities, what did you do, what I did. Ladies and gentlemen, today Mrs Gennamas made a statement. It calls for a change in the debate tomorrow. It calls for a climate which is completely different from that of now, for all the Heads of State and Government to come up with symptoms and moderation, and for a long debate to take place on the substance, without looking back at the past, but to talk about what must be done today in the country's political life, in order to overcome the people at this difficult time that they live in. Even now let us hear this appeal. I'm not very optimistic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. We have changes because they want the parliamentary representatives to answer. However, before I give the floor to Mr Brutsis from New Democracy, I would like to place at this point for the plenary session to be approved, following the unanimous vote of 11 March 2021 of the Conference of Presidents, on the basis of its new possibilities (FO 187 A'1.10.20, Article 15(1) (i))) to amend the unanimous decision of the House of Parliament of Greece of 17 December 2020: ‘Extension of the period of notice and of the elections to be held in the Chamber of Deputies for the appointment of elected representatives of the Greek Parliament of the Parliament of Greece at the Council of the European Parliament's Rule 90 of the Parliament's Rules of Procedure (Part II, FEC 51/A/97), as in force, and extension of the term of office of existing representatives and their alternates to the Service and Disciplinary Council of Parliament due to exceptional health protection measures to deal with the dispersion of COVID -19, as applicable, and extension of the term of the current representatives and Vice-Presidents of the House of the Parliament of the Parliament of the European Parliament to be held in office of 15 December 2042 (FO. The same decision will set the specific deadlines for the call for elections not later than 20 October 2021 and for the elections to be held no later than the last Thursday of November 2021, due to the exceptional measures to protect public health against the spread of COVID -19. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u72	The body approved. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I should like to give the floor to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Brutsi. You have the floor for twelve minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it was really not and it is not my intention to throw oil into the fire - it does not need such a tense political climate - but I am obliged - something that arises from the political duty and is a matter of honour - not to leave on this step of the House the droplets of poisoned hatred which have been heard by the Parliamentary representative of Mera25. I have to respond to the police workers, police officers who have been giving their lives for years now to ensure social peace, the security of citizens, to allow democracy to function as it should. Mr. Gregoriadis from this step said phrases unheard of and vulgar. I have to answer him. He said specifically that the police action teams are a para-state fascist criminal, they are and they are astounded. This is what the Parliamentary Representative, elected MEP of the Greek Parliament, said about the honored Body of the Greek Police. Words run out of hand. What can you answer such an unacceptable and obscene position? I'm just reminding you that the Greek policeman is also a worker. He's a man who goes to work this morning, a different job and doesn't know if he'll be back at night. Its task is to observe the law. Its task is to safeguard the legal order, democracy from criminal evidence. Let me remind Mr Gregoriadis and the very few who share these vulgar and unacceptable views on the Greek Police Body, that the emblem of the Greek policeman is blood-painted. It's painted with blood, Mr. Gregriadis! It is painted with blood of people who fell heroically to protect the Greek citizen, to maintain legitimacy in Greece. Young children who fell, or were murdered against the crime. They are, too, insulted just before this step was taken and it is unacceptable. As far as Mr Varoufakis is concerned, he has again been placed on economic issues, as he knows to explain the issues, through his unique ability to know the figures and the data. Sadly, however, for him the reality keeps discouraging him. I'm not going to go to 2015 that chose to open the subject but I'm going to a recent incident a month ago. I was sitting in the cabinet as Minister, next to me was Stavros. In Mr Stavoura's question to Mr Varoufakis: 'Tell us, Mr Varoufakis, what will the recession for which you say how much is going to be', Mr Varoufakis said: 'Fardia - I will sign 15%'. The tribute, Mr. Varoufakis, is disproved today. The recession is 8.2%, much less than the same recession that the Ministry of Finance predicted in the budget. Not that we are satisfied with the recession. It was an unexpected recession that came out of the pandemic, the wounds of the economy that opened through the effects of the pandemic, the closed economy as it was, but it is a reality that the government, the Ministry of Finance, and the productive ministries were best placed in the management of the crisis. And indeed, we have failed in the best sense and the recession was much less than the one we had anticipated. It's 8.2%, not the 15% Mr. Varoufakis said. Mr. Varoufakis said something else. He returned in 2015 to another logic, though. Do you remember in 2015, which Mr Varoufakis again questioned all the facts as he does today? It questioned the global economy, the European institutions, the European Central Bank. Just now he said, questioning ELSTAT, the Greek Statistical Office, that unemployment is not what ELSTAT says is something else. It's just the same Yanis, with a "n" Varoufakis of the Syntagma square. He's the same! But here, ladies and gentlemen, we have agreed as a country that there are things that are not questionable. The figures and data resulting from either the General Accounting Office of the State over time, irrespective of any government or data derived from the independent institutions, such as ELSTAT, for example, an independent authority, cannot be disproved. So, what did ELSTAT show? It showed that in 2020, despite the forecast by the Ministry of Finance, which the Ministry of Finance made provision for 18.9% of unemployment, unemployment will be below and from 17.3% of 2019. How did that happen? It's a real fact. As the economy closed down with the suspension of contracts of employment and the benefits we have given workers through businesses to keep and keep jobs, job vacancies have been re-established. It says so too, 'ERGAN', which is not a statistical tool, but is an element that reflects the labour market in real time, that ninety-three thousand new jobs were created in 2020. It's the reality. How do we do it? How do you question reality? Are these the perceptions and proposals you have to make for the future of the country? So that's it, and that's why you're being evaluated by the Greek people. In any case, ladies and gentlemen, to get into the essence of our issue and of the bill, I am introducing what I said at the outset that in this tense political climate no one should, especially in this House, put oil into the fire. And I say that in full consciousness. And with the experience of the MP for many years and following both the political things and the history of our country, it is recorded that the two words of division and polarization have poisoned the Greek society and the political system of our country and were finally harmed. And it has again been shown that Greece thrives at times when the Greek people, the political system permanently and unitedly puts the real problems before him, sets targets and always wins. And I say this because today our country is just before the exit from the unprecedented covid crisis, a crisis that permeated the global system. And Greece, this government, the political system, the parties, because above all we are Greeks, and we are united by the status of the resident of this country, the Greek citizen, has to face challenges very difficult. Firstly, we must face up to the challenge of the next day. There are open wounds to the economy. We have to stand up and society and maintain jobs and businesses. This is a very difficult exercise that we have achieved at pandemic time, we have to jump the next day. Secondly, we have the critical issues still pending the pandemic, which is there, we are dealing with it as best we can, but it is there. And thirdly, we have the Greek-Turkish. Are these or are they not the top issues we have to deal with as a political system? It is. Is it now time, or do we have the luxury of operating in terms of dividing and polarising politics? Does anyone think that through polarization and political division, he'll be won? You never get won when you operate polarly. It's like a flare that temporarily makes a flash, but at the end of the day, when the flare goes out, you're down there in your microparticular perception of thinking that you've earned profits, and you've got nothing. Because at the end - the one who wins at the end of the political process is the one who acted responsibly, the one who acted consensually with wisdom, responsibility and political proposal. If we look at something here and we need to cross-check our ideas, our views, our political difference, this must be done in terms of political culture and in terms of proposals and ideas not by force, with polarisation and vulnerability. They hurt the country and eventually no one won. I would remind you, because it is worth saying and I am addressing SYRIZA's colleagues, that four and a half years, New Democracy, I do not go before, as a opposition, has never thrown oil into the fire in terms of division and polarisation. We have moved for four and a half years as a opposition from our programmes, from our positions, from our political confrontation with the government in terms of political culture and proposals other than you but with proposals, not with conflicting logic and we have won it. You saw that Kyriakos Mitsotakis, the New Democracy as a whole, won the world's appreciation in four and a half years, was confirmed by the recent elections, and today it is a government precisely because it worked in this way. The second element, which I think is more important and deserves to be said at the moment, is that my political body, New Democracy, to which I belong by a small child, and I am proud of New Democracy, because it has been historically, ideologically, politically, politically, through the decades, at the heart and at the core of its policy, what we call its ideology, always has social peace, it always has political dialogue, it always has decency, it has the wisdom, it has all the necessary elements of a democracy. This is the New Democracy. New Democracy has never worked in terms of division and polarization, because we did not believe it and believe it. This is DNA, New Democracy's worthy reference framework. And we continue as an opposition when the Greek people urged us to be opposition today, precisely in the same spirit, in the same political function and in the same political attitude. Come on, then, and we should look into political decency, political dialogue, arguments in positions and proposals and not in terms of political division and polarisation. No one in the end is benefiting, no one is won by such a process, and ultimately damaged is coming out of our country, which I believe no one wants, but no one wants it to be in the Chamber's wing, whatever it belongs. I'm moving on to this bill. This bill, ladies and gentlemen, also answers the future of the country tomorrow. It is a bill, which, as the rapporteur of the New Democracy said, Mr Karagunis requires consensus. In July 2020, Europe's leaders at a historic meeting made a historic decision to unprecedentedly increase the European Union's funds for Member States' support and to provide a brave budget for the period 2021-2027 that has no precedent with the past to meet the crisis and to create another growth potential in Europe. Our country in this process through the negotiations of Christos Stakouris, the ministers, Mr Zavvos, Mr Pylakakakis has succeeded in taking EUR 72 billion, the highest amount corresponding to all other countries, EUR 72 billion. And it is a challenge for all of us, because this money will come to our country, they will come to invest, create jobs, strengthen businesses, create businesses, increase the skills of Greek workers, become attractive for investment for our country and opportunities. These 72 billion are analysed in two very important sections. One is the 32 billion of the Recovery Fund and the other is 39.9 billion of the public collection policy that we will have through the budget. That's the truth. With the information provided by Mr Stakoras, I am obliged to say that, because it was not heard, he said very simply that in 2014-2020 for every euro that we gave to the European budget we received EUR 2.9. With this new programme, Mr Karagunis, which you said in your report, for every euro, the Greek Government will receive EUR 4.6. Is it a big change, a structural change in favour of our country, and is it going to be a sceptical one if we are to vote for such a bill? On the issues relating to the objections that have been raised about the 32 billion Recovery Fund, to have a extensive dialogue, to enter all the political groups into discussions, I would like to tell you that the procedure followed, because I was Minister at the time, was too fast not only for Greece but for all the Member States. In a two-month period all Member States were required to create the 'basket' of their proposal for the Recovery Fund, Mr Russopoulou. As Minister of State during the summer that passed I was constantly in contact with the officials and officials of the Ministry of Labour, to determine the agenda with the Ministry of Finance what priorities we set. This "basket" was done by the Ministry of Labour, as was done by all ministries. Greece has presented a basket of initiatives and proposals for the Recovery Fund 32 billion and the European Commission comes out and says congratulations to the Greek Government, because the Recovery Fund, proposed by the Greek Government, is the best in Europe. I do not hide from you that it has helped and the experience we had between 2010 and 2014 with the experience of difficult budgetary measures, where we had to decide quickly, and it has exacerbated our perception of how we should move and what we should write in texts. And that really helped our side to record a basket of proposals, which took the credit of the European Commission. So, ladies and gentlemen, without second thought, in addition to party purposes, this bill is a bill that answers the future and the challenges of tomorrow for our country, for Greece. It's not just about us, it's about the next generations. In 2021-2027, 72 billion euros will come to Greece and that is what we are to vote on today. I think that with wisdom and logic, we all have to vote in favour of the Treasury bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr. Brutsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u75	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u76	Of course, Mr Gregoriadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. Dear Mr. Brutsi, seven minutes you have eaten from your word about Varoufakis and my master. Thank you and officially for recognizing Mera25 as an official opposition to this place and not SYRIZA. It's a great pleasure for us. Secondly, to clarify a few things in here, I want you to know that it is a great honour to call me a vulgar person any Minister supported and was Minister in memorials. Any one of you is an honor to say another man vulgar. Because your actions, the act of national reduction, that is, to grant national property for twelve years now to foreigners who treat it and steal it, are the same vulgar ones. Thirdly, you have heard my speech. You were here. I was looking into your eyes. Did you hear, Mr. Brutsi, what did I say about the injured cop? You heard what I said about all kinds of violence, and I specifically referred to this terrible violence against a young kid who went there to do his work with three and sixty, who you give him, who you've left him untrained, who can't handle his weapon. Did you hear what I said? I said that it disgusts me and that I will set up my chest and sacrifice myself so that a Greek police officer can't be pushed in this way. Now listen to what police colleagues say. Do you know how they characterize the group "RANS" three Greek police associations? They call it untrained, they call it dangerous for themselves and for the citizens of Greece, not to talk about police unions. The special guards that you've hired them are barren, you've given them a pistol, you've never trained them, and you've given them three and sixty to kill others or die themselves, it's your responsibility, Mr. Brutsi, it's not Merra25's responsibility. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. I am a parliamentary representative and answer you for the Chief of our parliamentary group. Mr Brutsis, I will not be tired of repeating - it seems that you and Mr Stagioras want to hear it again - that you have changed, and it is a global originality, the results of our country's primary surpluses for fifteen years. You have lowered the primary surpluses of the past fifteen years to achieve a 1% reduction from the recession you have brought. But it was not enough for this unprecedented thing that you did, and as our Chief has told you, which you can follow as much as you want when you say his name - I do not hear you have any serious political or economic argument to him - but you have had to remove deflation. You're an economist too. You should be ashamed, Mr. Brutsi, of lying to the Greek people about this year's deficit. You know it's over 13.5%. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u78	The Minister for Finance, Mr Stavros, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. Let's start with the legislative improvements. I'm tabling them in the Minutes. All the ministerial amendments are accepted, no conscientious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u80	Also, I should like to present my colleague, Minister of State, to the implementation partners of ESTIA 2021, as previously committed. Mr. Metarakis gave me to register them in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'll make some introductory remarks and thoughts. I have heard from the President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group that we should be united. At the same time, his speech had words in it, like a rag, a gang, predators, crimes. We probably have a different approach to the use of Greek words. I have heard the President of Mera25 say 'all in light'. He had defended creative ambiguity. These, you know, are a little contradictory to each other. I heard him blame ELSTAT for the evidence when he knows that the head of ELSTAT has not changed. He's the same. The statistics go through EUROSTAT. And I want to fix Mr. Brutsi. I'll submit it to the Minutes. On 29 May 2020, Mr Varoufakis said that we are changing the evidence. Obviously, we change them as the whole of Europe changes them. And he changed it himself. He said it was minus 10, I reviewed it and I remain at minus 15, and that is the floor of the recession. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I hope that the sad images of violence we have all seen will be the last. Self restraint, sobriety and cooling should prevail. We must not allow anyone to split us. We must not undermine social tensions and automation. Blind anger does not lead anywhere and we must be united in the face of all kinds of challenges. It is another thing, as I have heard from the SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, that we are listening to the concerns of society, to concerns, to fatigue - and that is what I would like to think from all the wings, but it is certainly done by the New Democracy - and it is another thing to instigate social tensions, demonstrating maximum irresponsibility, as at least the Civic Opposition does. You will allow me to make a statement in the Minutes, because KINAL's colleague has referred to all the package of measures which we have announced today, with very detailed information, so that there are no inaccuracies in the Chamber. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Ladies and gentlemen, in July 2020 the leaders of the Member States of the European Union took an important step towards getting out of the economic crisis caused by the coronary pandemic. They agreed at the disposal of EUR 750 billion for the recovery of national economies, via Next Generation EU, with a mixture of grants and loans. At the same time, however, they also agreed on a package of 1.074 billion euros for the European Union budget for the period 2021-2027. On the basis of this agreement, Greece will receive in the coming years the largest amount ever gained from joining the European family, totalling EUR 72 billion. This is a historic financial package that we will make effective use of to recover more quickly and with greater dynamism the Greek economy, but also to create the appropriate conditions for achieving high, sustainable, intelligent and inclusive growth. It is necessary for all of these to be ratified by all European Member States - the new decision on the European Union’s own resources system, which will replace its 2014 counterpart. I am tabling the timetable for voting on these from all the European Parliaments. Someone's already done it. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the abovementioned timetable, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Only in this way will the Recovery Fund be activated and unlock the entire potential of European funds. With the draft law under discussion, this is a precondition. Ladies and gentlemen, I will become a little more specific. The decision on the system of own resources was adopted by the European Council on 14 December 2020. The new decision - and this is the important one - marks a thorough review of the method of financing the Union budget, as it enables the committee to borrow funds from the capital markets in order to ensure immediate and large-scale financial capacity for the support, recovery and resilience measures of the European economy and to avoid further pressure on national budgets. Since support should be limited in time, legal commitments for a programme financed by such resources should be made by 31 December 2023, while the approval of payments under the recovery and resilience mechanism will, in fact, depend on the satisfactory fulfilment of milestones and targets on a six-month basis set out in the recovery and durability plan. The net borrowing activity should cease no later than the end of 2026, and, after that year, borrowing operations should be strictly limited to refinancing operations to ensure efficient debt management. With the aim of ensuring adequate resources, the new decision establishes a permanent increase in own resources ceilings to 1,40% and 1,46% of gross national income to cover payment appropriations and commitments respectively, in order to ensure effective and uninterrupted financing of Europe's fundamental European policies and, on the other hand, of the new priorities and future challenges. At the same time, there is a temporary and temporary increase in the ceilings and the method of calculating and collecting existing own resources is laid down. At the same time, it is being introduced - I have heard this many times from colleagues - a new resource, calculated on the basis of non-recycled plastic packaging waste, produced in each Member State and not recycled. This has an ecological character, encourages pollution reduction, recycling and the cyclical economy, while it is fair, taking into account the level of income of each Member State. In particular, according to the new calculation method, which includes a corrective mechanism to eliminate the reversible progressive elements, Greece annually benefits from this resource of EUR 33 million. Ladies and gentlemen, Greece, through the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund - they sum up this - will benefit from many of their contributions in many sectors of the economy and receive the entire Greek society. Based on the national allocations - I have heard this from colleagues and from the opposition - our country is expected to receive EUR 2021-2027 71.9 billion in the years 2021 to 2027. In particular 39.9 billion from the multiannual financial framework and 32 billion from the Recovery Fund. Our country's national contributions are estimated to reach approximately EUR 15.5 billion. This evidence demonstrates the significant financial benefit of our country, since the take-off rate or, if you wish, input-contributions is formed at 4.6 to 1. In simple terms, for every euro that we give Europe, we will receive EUR 4.6 through the Multiannual Financial Framework and the Recovery Fund. The corresponding ratio for the period 2014-2020 was 2,9 to 1. Greece is therefore even more favourable today. Ladies and gentlemen, by summing up, the ratification of the decision on the European Union's own resources system by the Greek Parliament in conjunction with the ratification by the parliaments of the other Member States will enable us to take advantage of the benefits we claimed and won at the July 2020 summit. The revenue from the implementation of this Decision will contribute to the promotion of the ‘green’ and digital transition, to the promotion of research and innovation, to the strengthening of employment and social cohesion, to the promotion of private investment and to the transformation of our economy. The EUR 72 billion that our country deserves will give a significant boost to our economy's growth potential if they are properly exploited. We are already working hard, methodically and together. Ladies and gentlemen, the second part of the draft law amends Law No.3864/2010, which governs the operation of the Financial Stability Fund, in order to allow the latter to participate in non-secured future capital increases, i.e. capital increases that do not have the status of capital support to cover capital deficits or resolution. It is recalled that the CFS is currently not allowed to participate in an increase in capital of a credit institution to which it is already a shareholder, unless this increase is required for supervisory reasons. This deprives the FCF of its ability to respond actively, operating like any private shareholder in the direction of defending its investment in the context of a business rather than, therefore, a supervisoryly required capital increase. Therefore, the CFSF, in the current context, does not have the possibility, by assessing conditions, to avoid a reduction in its participation, even when maintaining the participation will enable it better to invest in the future. Today, with the proposed amendments, we are covering this legislative gap, which the previous government has maintained, despite the repeated amendments to the law on its days. To the political correctness of this choice of the Government, SYRIZA’s communication of 3 November 2020, which notes, inter alia, that ‘it is the government’s duty to prevent the Greek State from further underestimating the position of the Greek State by a future increase in the bank’s share capital without the participation of the HFSF’. The institutional correctness of this legislative choice is reflected in the opinion of the European Central Bank on 25-2-2021, which ‘hails the fact that the draft law now allows the participation of the CFS as an investor in increases in capital of credit institutions that are not intended to provide capital support to cover capital deficits in conditions of resolution or constitute a prudential capitalisation or a public capital support measure’. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] There have been some reports of the alleged irresponsible officer of HSS. Let us see a little what happens with regard to the responsibility of these officials. The conditions and guarantees for the disposal of banks' shares by the Financial Stability Fund are already laid down in the law today and are not changed. I would point out, for example, that two valuation reports are also required from independent financial advisors. The conditions for the disposal of shares, namely the essential issue of the debate, as currently in force, were legislated on 20 November 2015 by the SYRIZA Government. I shall deposit in the minutes the relevant law on 20 November 2015. That's what Mr. Chakalotos invoked. He said he basically took the law from 2014 and the same law applies in 2015. But why did he have to legislate again? Because it tried on 1 November 2015 to withdraw this provision and returned it on 20 November. He's forgotten something very basic. I make both texts for completeness in the Minutes of the House. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's the truth. Otherwise, having said that it was in 2014, why is there a law in 2015? But even if today's Opposition, despite this, then changed its mind, as usual, and then considered that these conditions are not sufficient, why it did absolutely nothing until 2019. Four years she had at her disposal. Why didn't he change the law after he didn't satisfy it? We today do not change the conditions for disposal, that is, under which it can sell shares in the banks. Because we are neither acting hypocritically nor creating opportune impressions. We are currently applying in the HFSF the provisions already in force for the financial sector credit institutions and businesses, which, in fact, by the unanimous decision of 158 of 2021 of the sixth section of the Ice Bay, were fully in line with the Constitution. I'm tabling this in the Minutes and that. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Two final places, one small dip in the past, because I was provoked, and one for the future. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years, the country's credit institutions have been found because of the budgetary crisis, but - I note this - and with considerable responsibility they are facing great challenges. These challenges have made it necessary to create a framework for their support in order to preserve the real economy from a complete collapse and to preserve citizens' deposits. Is this a context when it started to be created? Because we need to remember the past a little bit. This framework started to be created in time since 2008 by the then government of New Democracy, when the tsunami of the global economic crisis hit Europe. And this was despite the rabies reaction of the opposition parties, who claimed that there was no global crisis and that the government was then wrongly supporting the banks. This criticism was repeated only on the left later and on the subsequent support of the banks. The result is, as the Bank of Greece's Monetary Policy Report of June 2015 confirms, that ‘even in the first quarter of 2015, the banks' capital adequacy remains at a satisfactory level’. For example, as a result of these securities options the banking institutions regained part of their deposits by 2015. Successful capital increases were made by raising 8.3 billion euros from the markets. They issued securities worth about 2.5 billion euros. They zeroed their dependency on the European Central Bank's emergency liquidity mechanism. And the flow of new non-performing loans was drastically reduced. Therefore, the situation in the Greek banking system has gradually stabilised and until 2014 the confidence in it has been restored. Unfortunately, the situation changed in 2015. The government of SYRIZA and ANEL, due to erroneous and unremitting manipulations, has brought the banking system up against great risks. Indicative again in titles: Bank holiday. Capital restrictions. Total deposits and flows of credit institutions decreased by EUR 50 billion. The biggest outburst since the beginning of the crisis. Banks' quality of assets deteriorated. The value of the bank shares held by the Greek State collapsed. It decreased by 80% in six months. The government was responsible for 11 billion euros of the CFSF in the European Financial Stability Fund. The financing of the banking system was made exclusively by the emergency liquidity facility. I have been tabling the texts of the reports by the institutions and the Bank of Greece since that time. I would simply sum up in one sentence: ‘The prolonged negotiations in the first half of 2015, the outflow of deposits and the increasing proportion of unsecured loans due to the deterioration of the economic climate in 2015, made it necessary to recapitalise the Greek banking system despite the 2014 recapitalisation’. That's the reality. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Let's go a little, in titles again, see how successful the third recapitalisation was. This recapitalisation added new costs to the State and increased the public debt. Revenues from previous capital increases. For example, for the National Bank, the first recapitalisation was made at a price per share of 4,29, the second in 2014 at 2,2, and the third, the ‘left recapitalisation’, in 2015 at EUR 0,02. And you dare talk. Therefore, the cost for old investors, small and large, is huge. And the suffering doesn't stop here. The recapitalisation changed the ownership structure of the banks at an extremely low price and reduced Greek private participation. The new bank owners, mainly foreign private investors and hedge funds, acquired most of the Greek banking system and, of course, their control by paying 5.3 billion euros. And finally, the recapitalisation has nullified the value of the CFSF portfolio, i.e. the shares that were actually held by Greek taxpayers through the Treasury. I shall be tabling a report to the House on what I have tabled to the committee. The valuation of the share of the CFS at the end of 2014 was 11,622 and 0,63 in December 2015. And of course, it became even worse later. I'm tabling them for the Minutes along with the participation rate. [[At this point, the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakouris, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] That's all about the past. But you will allow me, for two or three minutes, to speak for the future too, to know what our strategy is at European level in the next critical period. Ladies and gentlemen, although the way out of the unprecedented health crisis has now been opened thanks to vaccines, it is clear that time will be needed for returning to normality. That is why the European Commission also proposes the continuation of fiscal flexibility in 2022, combined with the early withdrawal of the aid measures for households and businesses, by assessing the situation in each Member State at a later date. Undoubtedly, the pandemic crisis caused tectonic tectonic tectonic tectonic tectonic turbulence in all fields. At the European level it was a major test, demonstrating and stressing the need for unity, solidarity and coordinated decisions, in which Greece contributed significantly and creatively, further strengthening its credibility and gaining at least the same or even greater benefits from the other European Member States. In particular, this year we have claimed and achieved as a country at European level: Firstly, we have achieved budgetary flexibility. It wasn't given. Greece has since the beginning of the health crisis, despite the fact that it is under enhanced supervision, managed to have the same degrees of freedom as all other European Member States. It took advantage, like all the other countries in Europe from the general escape clause activated in March 2020, which allowed us to take measures to support households and businesses, deviating - the word is important - from budgetary rules, objectives and requirements. I repeat, Greece has put that word in here. Because all the other countries in Europe have rules. We also had a target set by the SYRIZA government, 3.5% primary surplus, and this word had to come in, too, to ensure that the country does not have corresponding budgetary targets in future as long as we are in a health crisis. These measures now amount to EUR 27 billion, and we said they would be exhausted in the year, above the European average as a percentage of GDP. Secondly, we have achieved participation in all the European programmes and funding instruments created by the Eurogroup, the European Commission and obviously the European Central Bank. The quantitative relaxation program has a significant contribution to de-escalating the yields of Greek bonds, facilitating, together with the significant strengthening of the country's credibility, its access to cheap lending. Thirdly, we have achieved high resources from the Recovery Fund. I talked about it. And fourthly, we have achieved positive assessments and disbursements of resources. In one year of the health crisis, despite adverse conditions and unprecedented difficulties, our country has successfully completed four evaluations by the institutions. The two were accompanied by disbursements of funds totalling about 1.5 billion euros, while all the institutions' reports recognize the direct and correct intervention of the Greek Government and the effectiveness of the support measures for households and businesses. We continue, with a plan, determination and wisdom, to formulate policies and to formulate coherent proposals for achieving European prosperity, solidarity and equality. The first priority is the continuation of budgetary flexibility and in 2022, since, according to all data, the recovery of the European economy at pre-university levels is not expected before the end of next year. The second priority is to maintain support measures until the full consolidation of a sustainable recovery leading to a budgetary balance. It must be ensured that the budgetary balance is achieved through recovery and growth rather than through austerity measures. Thirdly, the rapid disbursement of the resources of the Recovery Fund. We are already one of the first European countries to submit to the European Commission a detailed and mature first National Recovery and Resilience Plan, a plan which will be presented briefly at the next meeting of the European Union finance ministers on Tuesday. And fourthly, ensuring that the necessary changes to the Stability Pact achieve long-term sustainability of public finances, offer maximum flexibility in crisis management, take into account - and Mr Tsakalotos is right - the discrepancies between the European Member States, protect and encourage public investment and, finally, they will be transparent in their planning and implementation. In conclusion, the above proves that Greece has strongly proclaimed and received equal access to all European programmes, tools and funds in the European forums. Furthermore, it makes a constructive contribution to the European dialogue on the means of tackling the health crisis and its effects, strengthening its voice and proving that despite the war of the crisis, it proposes, visiblely and implements. The government ensures resources and financial space to support society and the economy, as far as possible, without ending up in budgetary derailment, but with sound and social justice, so that we can safely drive the country as quickly as possible to the clearing of recovery and sustainable and inclusive growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u81	Thank you too, Minister. Parliamentary Representative from Greek Solution, Mr Konstantinos Hetas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, Mr. Staruras said good. It's good what we're talking about here, but there's a completely different picture. And this picture has a title you know. Shock! That's the picture. In Greece, government ministers and gentlemen, with GDP of EUR 165 billion for 2020, every week lockdown damages the Greek economy with EUR 750 million. The numbers speak for themselves. You may be in a mood, you may have wrong ways, right ways. That's the glaring reality. Officially, citizens' debt - what they owe the cosmopolitan, that is - reaches EUR 234 billion today. What analyses do you make, what plaques you give, what in the Minutes you testify, 234 billion owes Greeks and Greeks. Of these 108 billion relate to debts to the tax authority, 89 billion debts to the wider financial sector - banks, companies, management corporations, etc. -37 billion debts to the insurance funds. I'm not saying your work is easy. You're in a very bad place. You are, however, invited to manage private debt amounting to 138% of GDP, which together with the public debt goes to 200% of GDP. There's no state budget, it's gone. What does that mean? That the country's additional lending has launched the public debt - to figure out a little what is going on - at EUR 364,8 billion. That is what our Greece owes, EUR 364,8 billion. Mr. Stavoura, your position is really very difficult. I listened carefully, as I always do, to the committees and to the plenary. But this description I'm making is the creepy reality. At the beginning of the memoranda, public debt was 298 billion. Now it's 364 billion. It is obvious that Greece is entering new memoirs and that obviously the marble will pay for it, once again, by Greeks and Greeks. I don't want to tan the soul of the Greeks who listen to us, but that's the truth. They will see their properties lost, they will see their wages fall, they will see unemployment grow. We'll have a tsunami for the unemployed. Many businesses will never reopen and some will put a very brief lock on it. Unfortunately, as a government you have mutated into regular accordion soloists! Solicitor accordion. Just 24 hours ago, you made yourself self-confident that the market would open. Now you're saying it won't open. Yeah, but you're driving people crazy like that. For me that I have a shop and I expect, when I hear the Minister say I'm going to open in ten, fifteen days and make me expectations, and after one day, the cases are three thousand again and you tell me that I won't open until 20, 25, that's not serious. And, indeed, we are talking about a government of insanity in dealing with this issue. Insanity, normal! And because you can't convince the world, you put the police in front, you create this whole climate hostile, with people losing their patience and having what we've got. So put an end to the insanity of imposing fines for masks abroad. So, please, they're writing people because he's taking his walk and doesn't wear the mask. Put an end to moving insanity with SMS and exterior papers. Put an end to the insanity of open accordion. Put an end to the paranoia of curfew after 6 p.m. on weekends, to the paranoia of closing amateur sport. We are the only country in Europe. Nowhere else can that happen. Put an end to the paranoia of closing the CTEOs but open the automotive workshops. That's another paranoia! Put an end to the insanity of imposing a vaccination certificate. Another paranoia! Mr. Stavura, look at what I have in my hands. The first redundancy of a worker in Greece because he refused to be vaccinated. Today. Where's Mr. Brutsis, where was he at the Ministry of Labour? The first dismissal of a Greek citizen who refused to be vaccinated. In other words, vaccination is not mandatory. The first case was that. Tsunami's coming. Put an end to the insanity of moving up to two kilometers from our home. These are crazy things. Let's go to the episodes now. I almost cried at what Mr. Brutsis said about the police. He was really touching. Yes, but you, Mr. Brutsi, the New Democracy, the ruling parties, are using the police. That's what you're doing. You've made the police officers, the police in general, the box bag. Here's a little something. The police must be at the service of the citizen and not the service of the governor at any time. That's what you're doing. You're using the police. The policeman is either high-ranking or the latter executes orders. If he doesn't, he'll be out of his place. So you're using him at the beam. Tell me the truth, there is one in this Chamber - let us be honest - or out there a Greek citizen who believes that the Greek police do not know who the para-state is, what these violations are, does not know who the hooded ones are? And these are the gear of the system, my dear, which one of my acquaintances says. It's a system granule! Use them wherever you want, when you want, when they rule one or the other. I don't accept that our police don't know who the para-states are. He knows them very well. Get them. But, as we have said, you are using them. Sixteen arrested, eleven foreigners. We were not reached by our own boulevards, by the para-states, and now we have translations from abroad. We have Afghans, Pakistanis, Greeks, Greeks, Greeks, Afghans. We didn't get enough of our people, we got them too. Give nationalities to you. Give it to me! Let's go to the occupancy. Tell me a country in Europe - to speak frankly here - Ministers, honourable Members, who has this mess with universities in possession. Tell me a country. Tell me that mess that exists in Greece, where else there is. All fourteen of the thirteen arrested this morning, they weren't students. What were they? What are you pulling my head on, Mr. Gregoryade? You're supporting these assholes and lawlessness at universities! Your party! What do you move my head and agree with what I'm saying? Fourteen of the thirty-three are not students! And here comes the state and what does it do? They were released today an hour ago! My birds have been released again! Go back to occupation tomorrow, the university, go back to workout exercises in the morning, the police get them out, because there's no law. There's no law! Nothing! You're fond of them. These are the truths. If you want, you can hear them. If not, we might say other things. We've said good, good, and no, no. You heard us - we have been calling it for too long - for parades. We are pleased to hear the President-in-Office say today that military parades will even take place. And good! It's in the right direction. We, however, go to the next and ask for action: Let Greeks and Greek women do Easter. Let us go to the Epitaph. Let us go to our church. Today we have episodes again, again course. There's a war in Thessaloniki right now that we're talking about in Egnatia. War scenery between anarchists and police again. Again marching out for Koufantina, again marching for the unsub, again march for the police, marching for the New Smyrna. But Easter will now come and you will tell us: 'Hit home. You can't do that. So our next request is to be able to make Easter and go to the Epitaph. Mr Stavoura, I believe that your bill is insulting Mr Mitaraki's shamefulness. I can't believe you accepted her. We said it before. We raised it high. It is really shameful that this exception should be made for all the money intended for asylum seekers, while Greeks lose their homes and seismics stay in scenes outside and be removed and excluded from any fee, levy, not to commit this money, not to offset the debts, etc. Why such racism against the Greeks? I'll say something completely different. I got a letter from the port guards, and I want it to be heard. This is our duty to transfer citizens' demands here to Parliament and to the government to listen to them. And I think your reflexes will be such, Minister, that you will deal with the matter. It is a letter of a hundred and fifty-five successors of the Port Guard Testing Bench and the moleculation of the year 2019. People gave tests, they passed and they're still waiting. It is an extremely important issue for port guards, taking into account the Turkish provocation, the under-store of the most port authorities in the Aegean Sea, and the need for new executives with appetite and disposition for work. These people gave tests, they're gone and they're still waiting. You need to see it. It is not an observation what we are doing to you. Labelling is for everyone to contribute to a better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u84	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u85	Here you go, Mr. Gregoriadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr President. One minute I'll need to avoid impressions. Dear Mr. Heta, I didn't shake your head because I agree with you. We don't want to agree with you at all as Mera25. We wish we never agreed. I'm just telling you that the occupation that ELAS evacuated today at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki had a request. Do you know what it is? To reopen the universities that have been closed down by the government a year ago. That was the request. If they were arrested with the nineteen invaders, I have to tell you that the police evacuated hundreds of others to whom they participated. You know these are caregiver issues and will solve the student movement alone. We don't support bumps, we support students who want open universities. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u87	Be well. Mrs Catherine Papanatziou has the floor from SYRIZA and our beautiful Magnesia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, two points must be taken into account in each of our positions in Parliament: first of all, what we are discussing and, at the same time, what we are discussing. Over the last few days it has emerged that police rule and repression are now part of everyday life. Mr. Prime Minister's divisive dictator, as you were, Mr. Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy, and as opposition. And yet you continue to act as an opposition and not as a government. ‘It is all the fault of SYRIZA’. When will you assume your responsibilities? Do you honestly think that this is how you will cover the world's reactions to your unarmed measures or that you will escape your responsibilities for the situation in the economy? There is political responsibility for what we are living for. Will you apologise to the young people and young people in this country who are now targeting them as irresponsible at every opportunity? Greece is among the countries of the European Union with the largest in the longest and strictest lockdowns. 86% of COVID infections occur in enclosed areas according to Civil Protection, such as large workplaces and public transport. One year now this government has not been able to shield the public health system and shape a plan with middle, beginning and end. No one would expect miracles, but we're waiting for self-evident. The recession in the country for 2020 is the third worst in the countries of the European Union. OAED records at the end of the year over a million unemployed. Fundamental labour rights have been overturned in the labour market. Your economic and social deficits create an explosive mixture in society. This is, unfortunately, coupled with the intensity of repression, which in turn brings enormous damage to our democracy. Let's move on to the object. We have a bill that we learned on Friday afternoon that we will be voting on Thursday without knowing the intermediate committees. This is where you overrun yourself. The first part of the bill concerns the ratification of the Council Decision of 14-12-2020 and the repeal of Decision 2014/235. In this context, the Union's own resources for the establishment of the Recovery Fund are being adjusted. The draft law includes, on the substance, authorisation to the European Union for borrowing from the markets in order to finance the projects and reforms of the Recovery Fund together with the imposition of an additional environmental resource. The pandemic, like any crisis, has brought new or old questions to the surface, such as, for example, the size of the interventions needed to support society and the economy. This leads the European Union to an increase in own resources and to the creation of the fund. It is a framework, however, which will also be judged by the choices of the present government, since your choices so far create greater insecurity among citizens, rather than a feeling that things will go better. In the second part of the bill, you bring provisions for the Financial Stability Fund. Legislation with this tactic is consolidated by your government. Minimum information time, without consultation and incoherent provisions. Before the debate on the HFSF, the government majority should inform us of its plan for the banking system. It's obvious that there's an interaction here. These provisions do not ensure the public interest and certainly do not lead to an improvement in the functioning of the financial system. These interventions give further flexibility to the shape of the HFSF and weaken the position of the Greek State in defining economic policy, and in particular as one of the supervisory authorities of the banking system. The public as a key shareholder must have a decisive and decisive role in the strategic decisions of systemic banks and representative representation I would say. We're waiting for your answer. Do you see it in your strategic plan? On the contrary, with the peculiarity you offer Article 6, you are able to give the staff of the fund the opportunity to take decisions without being threatened by appeals, which may be brought against them for acts that are contrary to the public interest. This whole framework comes to re-private among other things Piraeus Bank. You thoroughly forget the history of the Agricultural Bank and move on to new adventures that will damage the Greek state. For example, mention the National Bank. Why didn't you say about Piraeus? We remember that thanks to the Rural Bank, the PSI has succeeded and thanks to the Rural Bank, this bank has been kept up. The agricultural sector lost 4.3 billion from the PSI. Piraeus, of course, only received the healthy agricultural portfolio and received from the CFS a total amount of EUR 8.3 billion in two instalments. It also ensured a huge pool of low-cost deposits. As Piraeus also took 14.3 billion euros from the Agricultural Deposits, which had an average interest rate much lower than the average of its own. This difference represented an improvement in Piraeus’s annual results of 280 million. Now what are you trying to do with Piraeus? Explain to us. Finally, I cannot help talking about the events we have been living in the last few days. Colleagues of the New Democracy, with the Prime Minister's order, you made a return, twenty months ago, to convince the citizens that you and you alone have the legitimacy to do as you think. But democracy is based on mutual retreats. When, for example, a government's policy brings reactions, it is important that it stays a little behind, be discussed and moved forward, or that it be rejected and adjusted. You, unfortunately, don't consult. The collective commitment of all of us to defending public health is seen as a consensus in your policies, from education to health and the economy. So far, the only ones who retreat are the citizens who in the name of defending health, see rights and conquests becoming steam. These days there's a displeasure you've begun to feel, too. You need to coordinate with this reality, because the situation is marginal. Nobody thinks it's always someone else's fault anymore. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, too, for keeping time. Mr Dionissis Stamenitis, Member of the New Democracy from beautiful Pella, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the manifestation of the economic crisis by the emergence and spread of the coronary has created new data, changed the correlations, disrupted the balances, shakes the economies around the world and strongly testifies to the resistance of societies. One can hardly claim that humanity is prepared for such an unprecedented and difficult trial. In this context of uncertainty and strong instability, the Greek economy managed to withstand the difficult 2020. This is also evidenced by ELSTAT's provisional data, which we see the recession moved at lower levels than the estimates of most analysts, not the estimates of various MPs in 2013 and 2014. The recession in 8.2 as opposed to the same government forecast for 10.5. This demonstrates that the economy has shown that it has more tolerance. It also shows that the country as a whole has drawn a new path, that of success. This evidence demonstrates that the measures adopted to counteract the effects of pandemic and support civil society are moving in the right direction and are also effective. Fortunately, we did not follow your advice in May 2020. So we have a duty to stand by the citizens, and that is what has been done since the first moment of this extremely difficult adventure. The European Union is, of course, a key ally in this effort that the government has been making in recent years. In addition, the leaders of the countries of the European Union have seen the negative effects of pandemic and the need to support national economies. This has led to a disposal agreement for this purpose of EUR 750 billion, which will be made available through the Recovery Fund. It is really a historic decision, since the economies of the countries of the European Union were impossible to cope with, as the gaps created by the need to meet the immediate needs, such as the support of households, businesses and workers increased sharply. The European Union has decided to strengthen and assist the economies of the members and at the same time proceeded to an agreement on a package of EUR 1.074 billion for their budget. As a result of these agreements, our country will collect a total of EUR 72 billion, EUR 32 billion of the Recovery Fund and EUR 40 billion of the Multiannual Financial Framework. This is the largest package of financial support that our country has received since its accession to the European family, which is credited by Kyriakos Mitsotakis. And which, as the Prime Minister has pointed out and analysed by the Minister of Finance, will be exploited in order for the Greek economy to recover as soon as possible and to run towards the future at a rapid recovery rate. Let's say the money that's going to take place wasn't secure. They came from the hard and successful negotiation of the Prime Minister himself and the Greek delegation. In order to implement the Decision, the European Union shall review how the Union budget is financed, in order to allow the Committee the opportunity to borrow its funds from the capital markets and thus be able to obtain immediate and highly available financial capacity. Ours - all Member States - a basic obligation to make these decisions flesh and bone, is to ratify the decision on the European Union's own resources system, which, as has been said, will replace that of 2014. This is exactly the obligation of the country to include the first part of the draft law under discussion. The fulfilment of which will enable us to absorb the funds provided for in the Budget Recovery Fund. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen, we are today in favour of an extremely important bill which will very much judge the course of the Greek economy and the sound functioning of the banking system. The second part of the draft law under discussion is to amend the provisions relating to the operation of the Financial Stability Fund. In this important regulation, I will focus on providing the opportunity to participate in the CFSF in various forms in an increase in the capital of a credit institution, as a percentage of their participation under certain conditions, as described and analysed in the draft law. Overall, the arrangements introduce the fund into a new era. I would also like to point out that the European Central Bank itself agrees and welcomes the fact that this is done by this draft law, i.e. the possible participation of the CFSF as an investor in capital increases that are not intended to provide capital support to cover capital deficits in conditions of resolution, but neither constitute a prudential capitalisation nor a public capital support measure. Ladies and gentlemen, in 2015 you received an economy that had been back from difficult years in development and with a completely headless banking system. All of you remember what happened then and more so the Greek citizens, who paid the consequences of the choices made by Mr Tsipras and Mr Varoufakis, too expensive. We all remember what situation the Greek banks found as a result of your own devastating choices. Do not, therefore, hold this hypocritical attitude to the question of fund arrangements. The consensus and vote in favour of today's draft law is an act of responsibility towards the country and the future of the Greeks. Ladies and gentlemen, the course of the economy before the health crisis took a final turn toward growth. The pandemic, in fact, cut this upward trend. However, the reaction of the Greek Government, its political choices, the mixture of the measures it has taken, the dynamics acquired by the Greek economy in the previous period, together with the immediate response of the European Union to the greatest challenge of the last 100 years, today enable us - if we make good use of the resources available - to quickly recover and build a better tomorrow. The Greek Government and the Prime Minister have demanded and secured a great deal of money for the country that allows us to plan, plan and optimise, surely our country, Greece, will enter a new era of recovery and leave behind at this difficult time. That's what we're planning, that's what we're doing, that's what we're going to do. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mr Stamenitis. Well done, always like this, you're consistent in time. The next is Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, the Cretan from the Movement of Change. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u92	Get me to bear you, get us up on the mountain! The informal agreement on the poles of division was also seen by the alchemy of the Rules of Procedure of the House. Mitsotakis and Tsipras, separately and jointly, with a delayed question from the second and an abhorrent request from the President of another party, have taken urgent care to limit the debate on the subject of violence between them. Stop, gentlemen, at last, both of you to fuel splitting into society. Mr Chakalotos from Stepma today made a call to other parties. The problem is not only the unreliability of SYRIZA's words, but there are also some who believe them, Mr Gregoriadis. We're not one of them, though. Mr. Stavoura, you referred to 2008-2009, when we both said that the crisis is international, but you said that Greece is shielded, while we told you, with what we knew, that Greece is a clear vine. You have one point, that we didn't know everything. Or rather you have concealed the extent and, above all, the depth of the crisis and the economic derailment 2004-2009 that followed, with 15% of the budget deficit that you presented it, 5.5% and 36 billion of the total deficit - 24 billion primary - which you presented much lower. But let's come to today, see what you're hiding from us today, which is a more general problem of questioning your effectiveness. While Greece is in the first positions on the costs of tackling the crisis as a percentage of GDP, it also has one of the greatest declines. By the end of February you have spent 27 billion and 2.4 million were announced yesterday, but the recession is 8.8% in Greece, 32% above the European Union average. That's 32%, not a bit up! What's going on? What are you hiding from us? Obviously, the money has been spent, the 27 billion, but they haven't caught that place. That's the truth. Is it the targets, the program or the operators? Four hundred thousand unemployed are without support. 70% to 80% of professionals, small businesses, micro-enterprises and small and medium-sized enterprises are without support. Always invoke the well-being of numbers and polls and that everything is going well and no matter what about society that experiences the difficult. Listen to our criticism. Listen to our suggestions. Change the door. The pandemic has highlighted the need for consultation not only at local and national level but also at global level. Global cooperation to strengthen, complete the unification of the European Union, change the development and productive model and revise the policies as a whole, refocusing on man, his needs and the environment. Unfortunately, modern social-democratic positions, which are not only topical, are also the safe way out of recession and poverty. With sustainable development and social justice we can achieve social cohesion and human-centered progress. The recovery will not only be economic. It must be total. To tackle the current crisis, we have better conditions than 2009. We then faced not only a numb Europe, but an indifferent Europe, which did not have support mechanisms but neither want to create them. Today and because the problem is a whole for everyone, we have a more mature Union, which, at the summit last July, decided on a package of 1.8 trillion euros, a very positive development. In time and before the pandemic, our position was to increase the European Union's own resources in order to achieve, not only economic but also social convergence, and also to tackle regional disparities, an issue that is a key issue of our own, and of course it is necessary for our country and the other countries in the European south. In the next few years Greece will have at its disposal not only the 32 billion from the Reconstruction and Recovery Fund but at the same time 28 billion from the current and the new NSRF, 20 billion more from the new CFP, 2.7 billion more than SURE, because countries with the same population as Greece received 7-8 billion. A number of resources, but not used by themselves, will not run the programmes on their own. A plan is needed, which seems to exist, in the form of an integrated recovery programme rather than simply analyzing resources. In our question on the subject you have not been sweating very much. Aristotles and generalities, without quantifications and specific commitments, and in particular for the procedures and mechanisms with which this whole project will be implemented. In the explanatory statement you say that you submitted to the European Commission a programme, a plan, but not a plan, in the Greek Parliament. We have read today in the press in Crete that the European Commission has rejected the government's proposal to finance the BOAK from the Recovery Fund. Is that true? If it's true, it's indicative of your dullness. You have not taken advantage of the reports, the findings and proposals of the social partners and bodies and, above all, you have not transformed them into an implementation programme. Even now it is your duty to submit to the Greek Parliament the plan, to pass through the suffering of criticism, improvement, which will ensure its effectiveness. It requires broad democratic legitimacy and consensus in order to back up the deep recession, to address the severe economic and social problems it causes, to be able to regenerate the public health system and, above all, to achieve the productive and development of the Greek economy on the basis of a sustainable development and social cohesion plan. The arrangements in the second part of the draft provided for in the HFSF, so that it can proceed with any operation that ensures investment, concern an issue that comes from the past, from the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL with or without Mr Varoufakis. Because of that disastrous first semester, we have been driven to the third unnecessarily inappropriate memorandum and to the recapitalisation that until then was not needed. They deserved our banking institutions and we had a failed recapitalisation in that they passed banks in foreign hands, in our view, and no aggressive recapitulation took place, so that they would be able to finance the Greek economy. The provisions of the bill give possibilities and it goes without saying that we support every effort that ensures and increases the remaining value of the CFSF portfolio. However, we are clear that we will not vote in favour of the universal immunity of CFSF officials, whose function must in any case be in the public interest, to be transparent and controlled. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos, is called at Vima. Then Mrs Gerovasili will speak and then the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr Zavvos, will speak. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. Today we have heard great expressions about the European Union, which is changing for the first time joint lending at European Union level, global change, you leave it to be understood. We have heard the Minister celebrate that for the first time our country will receive from the European Union for the next seven years 72 billion euros, but you are covering basic issues behind this inexpensive phrase. What are these? First of all, why has the compromise at European Union level been made with the creation of the Recovery and Resilience Fund? On the one hand, in order to manage the new capitalist crisis, the European Union and to save the European monopolies, together with the effort made by the Member States of the European Union to save their own monopolies - and here, there is a billion-dollar dance for the rescue of multinationals - and, on the other, because of the hard competition of European monopolies with the monopolies of the United States and China, because the United States with continuous packages rescue their businesses, but also China, direct competitors - and of course, through this process, wants to finance the strategic choices of capital at European Union level, namely the financing of green transition and digital transformation. The debate, which took place within the European Union and which led to the decision to annul the specific decision we are debating today, was about who will get more gain through this process, which business groups, which sectors of the economy, which states will benefit most. While on the other hand there was once again an unprecedented consensus on the follow-up measures of the Resistance and Development Fund. And what are these accompanying measures, from all the governments, whether they are central to the European Union or central to the European Union? It is the reform package that the Resilience and Development Fund must accompany. And what is this reform package? The focus is on increasing the degree of exploitation of the working class, by stabbing whatever labour rights have been left at European Union level, the ever greater and more rapid liberalisation of the markets, in order to create an even more favourable environment for the action of business groups. In fact, in order to ensure that these measures, accompanying measures, anti-grassroots, anti-grassroots are implemented, there is another degree of supervision, that if the reforms are not implemented, you will not get money. So who wins and loses from this process? It's obvious. Winning through this new Recovery and Resilience Fund will come out of the major business groups and losers will come out of the workers and the people of the European Union, who will be called upon to pay back this new joint loan at the end and the repayment will be made through the increase in the European Union's own resources, namely through indirect taxation. Of course, since some people have said that the European Union is deepening through this process and we are going on a road towards the integration of the European Union, we are saying that this path of deepening leads the European Union in an even more reactionary direction, because the real rival of workers, namely the European Union itself, is being claimed. In this respect, it is clear that there will be no response to what is recorded. What are these recorded? The very big social inequalities. Convergence between countries - members of the European Union is not going to exist and anisometry will grow even further. There are again theories bankrupt from the past between north and south - Samir Amin has come back to news forty years - to cover the fact that there can be no equal growth in capitalism, not even within the Member State of the European Union. Truly, what will be the result of the reality itself. How many billion have been passed through our country from the integrated Mediterranean programmes, the IMPs, from the Delore packages, from the ESDP? What's the result? It is what workers are experiencing today, the new generation of workers, who take 350 euros for three-and-a-half jobs. That's the result. So on the substance of those who served and benefited from all these packages were the targets of the monopolies and the needs of the major business groups. Why will we also have the same result after managing the 72 new billion? Because growth is one and only in capitalism. She's unfair and classic. There can be neither fair growth in capitalism nor balanced development in capitalism. It has specific characteristics, laws of irons that do not change and are not questioned. What's the result? He'll bring in a new capitalist crisis. A new capitalist crisis will follow any uncertain capitalist development. Secondly, it will exacerbate social inequalities even further. The wealth will gather on a worldwide scale, as the official statistics themselves themselves themselves, that the billionaires have seen their assets all over the world multiply in a year, when there is a job suspension for workers, an increase in unemployment, bankruptcy for self-employed, professionals, traders on poor medium-sized farms. Thirdly, this capitalist development will destroy productive powers and first and foremost the working class. And here, let me have a parentheses before I go to the second part. It took you, Mr Chakaloto, twenty years to understand what the JRC said. You said it today. There can be no common currency in economies that have a different degree of growth. Twenty years ago, the JRC said that monetary integration is an artificial welding of unequal economies at European Union and Eurozone level. And then you - not personally, as a party, the coalition - denounced the JRC against the euro.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u95	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u96	You complained about it at the time that it was an obsolete party attached to the past. And you took twenty years to make the same findings as the JRC twenty years ago and it was confirmed once again. Finally, for the second part of the draft, for the financial system, the Financial Stability Fund was formed to finance and save the banks in our country. You served it with the Financial Stability Fund all the governments and all the Finance Ministers, regardless of whether some people today came out and said about the Financial Stability Fund what everyone can imagine. And what is the result of this management? EUR 42 billion was provided by the Financial Stability Fund to the four systemic banks. What was the result? In December 2014, the valuation of the shares held by the Financial Stability Fund of EUR 42 billion that it had paid to have reached EUR 11.6 billion, i.e. that they have made wings of about EUR 31 billion, in 2018 to fall to EUR 717.5 million and September 2020, based on the official figures published by the CFS, the valuation of the shares held by the four systemic banks has fallen to EUR 629,5 million. In other words, some 41 billion euros have been wings. And they have not done wings because they have been lost, but they have been transferred to the state debt that the Greek taxpayer will be asked to pay for these, the popular layers. Today, with the measure you take, you take one step above. You are converting from a privileged shareholder of the HFSF to a joint shareholder, i.e. being able to participate in any share capital increase, if private investors are involved, up to the percentage of the shares they hold. What are you doing this for? Of course, in order to advance the viability of the financial system's capital adequacy. The result of this procedure is clear. The objective of the gradual withdrawal of the CFSF from the banks is not undone, a objective that was founding and should now be said by the SYRIZA rapporteur that you are going to privatise the banks. But that was the purpose of the CFS. To save the banks and deliver them to private businessmen. This was also the purpose of the third recapitalisation made by SYRIZA as a government, which prohibited the old shareholders from participating in the third recapitalisation, thereby losing the Financial Stability Fund even further. So we have three recapitalisations of the banks, the deferred tax to support the banks, the HERAKLIS project to manage the "red" loans, the "GEYRA" programme not to become new "red" loans, the new Banking Code for the management of the "red" loans. These are all support measures for the banks. And you are still bringing a measure today for the direct participation of the Financial Stability Fund in future increases in the bank's share capital. What's the point? The point is that this increase in share capital will also lead to new losses of public money. And the risk is the potential increase in which the HFSF, together with the 12 billion-dollar plan, which is not secured, will form even worse conditions for the increase of the State debt. In fact, you say in the bill that it can be done by selling shares from the Financial Stability Fund below and by the price of their acquisition, i.e. with losses on the substance and not by improving the position. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr President, I shall conclude and thank you for the time. So, then, what is the results of all this evolution? The'red' loans to gloat, overcompensate the banks poorly populated strata, and even manage them, with the threat of the new bankruptcy code, to threaten the loss of workers' assets, pensioners, self-employed, poor medium-sized farms. Mr President, I would remind you of a conversation we had done twenty days ago in committee. We are still waiting for the data that the representative of the Banks Union of Greece had undertaken to give us, the table of loans that were written off or "finished". What loans is it about? For it is clear that these loans are limited to business loans which have been 'finished'. On the other hand, for the people you have shaped the new Banking Code to get any assets from it. Therefore, banks are operating at the expense of the popular needs of the overhead layers, operating at the expense of the workers themselves. Banks, in 2009, had four thousand sixty-three branches and sixty-seven thousand employees and in 2019, had a thousand eighty-eight and thirty-seven thousand employees, i.e. a 63% reduction in branches and 47% reduction in employees. And let's put aside how much the bankers have lost all these years. So, here we are stepping up work, closing shops, banks, forcing pensioners and the whole world to move around, taking miles of action so that it can be served, as you close the country's branch offices. In this respect, therefore, it is clear, Mr Ministers, that the Communist Party of Greece cannot, with its vote, cover up and cultivate illusions about the consequences of government policy on both the Recovery Fund and the financial system. We are voting against this bill and we call on the world to step up precisely its struggle, claiming the satisfaction of its modern and enlarged needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopou. Mrs. Olga Gerovali is called to Step by SYRIZA and beautiful Arta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u98	I would like to refer to the issue raised by Varoufakis, but Mr Kegeroglou also mentioned, as regards tomorrow's debate on the topical question tabled by the President of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance of Alexis Tsipras and will answer Mr Mitsotakis. Look, ladies and gentlemen, I also told the Conference of Presidents that Mr Gregoriadis raised the issue there, that the President, Alexis Tsipras, had tabled a request for a prior-day debate at the level of political leaders, all the political leaders, on the issues of democracy. I would remind you that they did not come up now, but they have started from autumn 2019 with the police invasion of the movie “Joker” for the movie and reaching the atrocities we have seen in the last few days. In this request Mr Mitsotakis never answered, because he obviously did not want a debate extended between all the political leaders in the Greek Parliament. With the intensity of phenomena in the last few days, yes, Alexis Tsipras has tabled a timely question that is now one to one, if it is discussed earlier, so that timeliness of events is not lost. It is therefore a personal choice for Mr Mitsotakis not to come to the Greek Parliament to answer all the political leaders, because he obviously does not want the opposition to him, which is about democracy issues anyway. He chose to answer only to Alexis Tsipras tomorrow. However, at the Conference of Presidents, which raised the issue by Mr Gregoriadis, we have advocated and strengthened the demand of Mera25. So Mr Mitsotakis' choice is to answer both political leaders who have tabled the question tomorrow. So, when you're addressing someone responsible, obviously this person is not Alexis Tsipras, but Mr. Mitsotakis. I'm on it. I cannot avoid speaking about the events of the last few days as we all understand. We've seen an orgy of police repression, unnecessarily assaulting police officers on civilians in the New Smyrna Square day by noon at the time they were walking, wild beating the young man there and everything that was followed, and we arrived at the criminal police officer attack, the police officer wounded, and all that happened that night after the police injured. As I said, this is not an isolated incident, but a constant, repeated, systematic practice of excessive police violence. I would remind you that one of these incidents that have taken place all this time has not been investigated. They've been uploading videos. Fortunately, there is the Internet, fortunately there are citizens, or we would not see all this. Of course, there are also time-consuming issues of investigation of incidents and police arbitrariness and corruption. In our day, then, first in 2016, Mr. Toska, the National Squadity Investigation Mechanism was established as an independent authority that can guarantee the process. The government has chosen not to continue this path, but to make another committee with Mr Alivizato. Mr. Alivizatos now, second time, can't threaten by resignation. He said it never worked, but he finally decided to say that it was SYRIZA's fault. The Greek police also have an excellent service, that of domestic affairs, which, with an amendment tabled in 2019, which I sign and Fotis Kouvelis, was upgraded. We joined the competent authorities of the port and the Fire Corps in one, to strengthen the role, the way and the method of operation and with a mechanism for reorganising the service. We also established that the commander of this service should be appointed after the opinion of the Committee on Institutions and Transparency of the Parliament, to be accountable to the Greek Parliament for a three-year term of office. We upgraded the independence of this position as well. These were two important steps nowadays to address these issues. There are resistances to the Greek police. There is poorly understood collegiality and solidarity. There are tendencies of covertness. We have also dealt with this to a large extent, not always. There were individual incidents on our day too. However, we were giving a battle that has duration and has been given a clear signal to all the police officers and the political leadership and to the physical leadership - nowadays we do not see the physical leadership anywhere - that they cannot be unpunished and police officers cannot be uncontrollable. In any case, today none of this is being investigated. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] Did I get long and got away from time, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u99	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, You didn't get away. You still have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u100	I got out in relation to what I have to say. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANASIOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Then we also saw a letter from the Prime Minister, who told us that we should all throw the tons. I agree that this is a right direction, but he said it himself, but what did we finally see at dawn today? We saw in a occupation at the University of Thessaloniki, announced yesterday that it would expire at 11 a.m. today, that a busy, spectacular operation was decided by the Greek Police, with drones, helicopters, etc., for a occupation that was really over. Isn't that a communication show, no substance, no object, just power demonstration? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Time's running out. I did not have time to say about the bill, but many of my colleagues have said. I'll stop, so I don't steal any more time. However - and I close with it - the Prime Minister guaranteed unity, security and prosperity. He failed on all three. He invested in a strategy of tension, often threatening democracy itself. The name of the child being beaten by the New Democracy paper was published. That's what the Attica Security Directorate has got. Or security went to Maximus or Maximus in Security. I don't know, but he certainly shouldn't be in Maximus exactly. You know, these communications fall as a molotov on the government's side. They're polarizing the climate. The Prime Minister, who also has the first responsibility for maintaining mild climate and consensus, understanding, calm, social peace, should follow actions instead of words.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs. Gerovali. I will give the floor now to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr George Zavvos. Well, it's not too much of a show. After the State Secretary, Mr Russopoulos will speak, who will precede because he has an inconvenience. I think the two previous Members have no objections. Mr. Russell, get ready. Come on, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government today brings to Parliament an important draft law. I am referring not only to the draft law on own resources, but to the plan concerning the participation of the Financial Stability Fund in capital increases in the context of a deinvestment strategy by the banks. We have had the opportunity in the last few days to discuss this in detail, both in the special committee and with the relevant bodies, where they have been able to analyse several aspects of this - I would say - of the important and difficult technical draft. As soon as possible, the Minister of Finance presented with a very systematic analysis of all those elements and data, and identified the causes of the crisis and the effects on the banking system until the day that government arrived. The majority rapporteur had the opportunity with a sound and penetrating analysis to also highlight several aspects of this draft law. I would like in the current presence of the bill to identify exactly what are the most important points and, in particular, to clarify the objectives, principles, instruments and framework of the banking system reforms in which the debate and this draft law are part. What is our short-term strategy on banking reform? This - I would say - is summarised in three interconnected, reformist axes: first, the full and successful implementation of the HERAKLIS programme, namely the systematic effort we are making to reduce the drastic reduction in red loans. To date, we have reduced red loans with successful participation of all four systemic banks, with portfolios amounting to EUR 32 billion, and that is only in the first year of operation. This was the case, in particular, with the participation of international investors, without any charge on the part of the Greek taxpayer. This has now been done and not in the previous government, because there has been a realistic plan on which the entire banking system has been drafted. A prerequisite for its success was the consolidation of credibility among partners and investors, which was restored precisely by the taking over of governance by Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but also by decisive areas of government policy in the banking system. The second axis is the extension of the programme 'HERAKLIS', i.e. 'HRAKLIS 2', which marks a new qualitatively and functionally different phase in the banking system. They are the banks that ask us and welcome HARAKEL 2 as well as the European partners, as is mentioned in the ninth report on enhanced supervision published in February and by international investors. This is top fact, for precisely this year, but certainly in 2022, all systemic banks will have achieved a one-digit number of red loans. This is a crucial achievement, because banks are thus being exempted from the unbearable burden of troubled loans, they are strengthening their capital base and they can now, with liberalised resources, provide liquidity aimed at the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, professionals, citizens, households. Thus, the Greek banking system is now armoured capital and becomes competitive. Thirdly, it is the introduction of this draft law that we are reforming the Financial Stability Fund. We're adapting it to a new era of banking system. This fund has been, as you know, a - I would say - an illustration of a difficult period, a time passed by the country through contributors, who have left their injuries. We are reforming the Financial Stability Fund as a central instrument, in order to strengthen precisely the capacity of the Greek credit institutions, in which the Fund is involved, to go beyond the paths of the past and to develop their business plans with confidence. Our aim is to do this with the attraction of investors to Greek banks and new funds. An important step in this direction is the gradual decommissioning of the public by the banking sector. That is why we clearly mark the terms of our policy, conditions that show confidence in the prospects of the Greek economy and the banking system. It is precisely these three axes that form the core of the Government's reform strategy for the financial sector. We dare through transparency, from innovative market solutions to maximise investment choices and seek the best synergies for the benefit of Greek citizens and the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, we are reforming the banking system at a critical time, because we urgently need a robust banking system, flexible, capable of effectively transferring to their real economy, in fact, huge resources that will flow from the Recovery Fund. Especially at this time when the exit from the pandemic and the machines of the global economy begins to reheat for the next day, is this exactly the big bet of this period. Today, when the country has been facing the greatest challenge since its accession to the EEC, the challenge of the kivic transformation of its productive potential, we need different best scales, as well as the reform and reform of the banking system. Because the coronary crisis brings about unprecedented geo-economic upheavals, it creates challenges, but it also creates new opportunities. You have seen - and you have all noted it - how quickly under the pressure of events and a bad reality the policies of the European Union are being adapted quickly. What else is the huge power of fire, which the Recovery Fund has, this unprecedented - if you like - and an innovative financial arm of the European Union focusing on two key elements, on the one hand, on digital transition and on green development? What does that mean, in fact? After forty years, the rules of the game have been changed again and, possibly, for the last time, we are given the opportunity to close the lane, that is, the north and south gap and to draw closer to the average European terms. It's the critical date of the decade. Our performance will be measurable. The transformation of our economy is a necessary condition, so that in the next five years it has returned most of the young people who have left this country, seeking jobs and opportunities abroad. We must and we can reverse the Brain Drain. Mr President, I am not going to analyse the aspects of the draft law, which I think the Members and the rapporteurs have expressed. I would just like to make a few comments. The first is that we are talking here about an increase in equity, which must be distinguished from the so-called'recapitalisation', which means the replacement of the lack of supervisory capital for resolution purposes, that is, what has happened in the past. We are talking now about something different, however, about the possibility for banks to resort to market conditions on the capital markets, which they need. We give huge and significant flexibility to the Financial Stability Fund to develop its disinvestment policy. And in this respect, I would like to say that we are strengthening corporate governance, making the executive committee, which will now have the presumption of competence. It's the General Council. While the Executive Board will remain an instrument that makes day-to-day management. The issue of the responsibility of the members of the Financial Stability Fund has been discussed to a large extent. I would just like to say that, on the basis of the regulation introduced by the Government, there is a legal parallel between the regulation concerning bank executives and the staff now of the Financial Stability Fund. There is one logic in this regulation that also applies to the members of the fund, because it is difficult to demand that an institution, which has been called upon independently of the financial conditions of acceding persons, grant funds once to support the banking system within a specific timeframe and, at the same time, ask it, as it is now, to disinvest. We cannot, at the same time, ask for a direct profit in all these procedures. And let us not forget that deinvestment is not a static process. We need to balance important parameters of macroeconomic, microeconomic and short-term, so that at the end of the day there will be the best possible outcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u103	Please, Mr. Undersecretary, complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u104	The role of the fund is the way it entered the bank's equity so it gets out. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say to some extent in response to the remarks made by Mr Tsakalotos that, today, we are bringing to the debate and vote a first stage of critical arrangements concerning the fund's ability to disinvest. Obviously there will be a second stage. In the second stage, we think we will have the possibility of discussing arrangements - we will have some time - concerning the rationalisation of banks, such as the one concerning the qualifications of members of the bank board. You also raised the issue of adequate or not corporate governance under the existing system. It is something that I think we will assess, discuss and if necessary, appropriate arrangements will also be made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u105	Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u106	But above all - and I am closing down, Mr President, in one minute - we will have to see at another stage what the role the Financial Stability Fund will play from now on will have to play. It was set up ten years ago, but things have changed quite, and now it has a new role to play, bearing in mind that major, significant positive changes have been made and that the Greek banking system is going through another phase. In this context there will definitely be parameters which will be taken into account for the next phase - I would say - such as safeguarding the funds of the fund that have been placed in the banks, also ensuring its independence, that the fund should have an exit strategy from the banks. All this, as we had the opportunity to say to the committee, must be done under the rules of the rule of law, under the Greek constitution and under Union law. I am stopping here, Mr President, and thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Generally speaking, I would ask that we respect the time, because there are too many more speakers. Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u108	Mr. President. I would like to thank you and the two colleagues who have listened to me for their position. Seven and a half hours have passed and only seven Members have spoken. I understand that today the programme has changed completely with the interventions of the political leaders. Interesting, however, were the controversies of the opinions heard. The bill's heard almost everything. I'll just stay in two places. For the Financial Stability Fund, the protection of the fund's investment and the maintenance of its participation, in order to be able to disinvest in the future on most likely better terms, is the most important part of the second part, and for the first part what better can be said than what the Minister of Finance, Mr Stakaras, has repeated a little while ago, mentioning the 72 billion we will receive through the multiannual programme in the years to come, that is, on the basis of our contribution and our own, and what we receive from the European Union for every 1 euro we are paying for, will take about 4.6 euros. However, there have been too many and, in particular, three things that have been said once again. One is the economy, the other is pandemic, and the other is the last events in recent days. You will allow me to say two words about them. After all, the issues of the economy and pandemic which are the same as those we have been discussing lately are relevant. As far as the economy is concerned, I understand the awkwardness of fellow Members from Skilling, as the provision of her Chief for 12% today is announced that it will be the projection of around 8.2%, as well as their predictions that we will not be able to reach even 12 billion to give the world from last year, when we ask forward to move on about the problems that pandemic posed, fell completely out. In fact, some 36 billion will be paid, i.e. three times above them, as their predictions of the flexibility of repayments and the repayable advance, which is one large in return, and today's government's announcements have fallen completely out. Totally out they've fallen and everything they've said about the pandemic. We have heard a constant repetition of disasters in relation to pandemic. As a previous colleague referred to the Chair on what was said or what was announced by BLOOMBERG today, I looked into and found them and found that the indicators quoted by BLOOMBERG, based on ECONOMIST, Eurostat and JOHN HOPKINS, are indicators that bring our country 11 positions better than a few months ago, are indicators showing that even the vaccinations per 100 000 inhabitants are much better than Germany, Switzerland, Spain, Austria, Italy, France, the Netherlands, Norway and Belgium. As regards indicators for health professionals, in September 2020 we had eighty thousand health professionals in November 2020, a hundred thousand nine hundred ninety-four health professionals. So all those predictions, as well as the attacks that the government has accepted, that the National Health System has not only proved to be hopeful, and I regret that, of course, I am sorry to say this about CSR, and I regret that I am referring to the word 'floods', not because they have become reality, of course. I'm closing the issue of the pandemic with tele-education. What better proof when in the summer of 2019 we had four and a half thousand laptops in schools and in January 2021 we have ninety thousand laptops and tablets and we have a million four hundred thousands of students and a hundred and eighty thousand teachers at the same time who have access to teaching, which is done not unnecessarily, because, of course, we have all been affected by the pandemic, but certainly much better than the forecasts of Officership and much better than anyone would expect, perhaps at European level for our country, as many have underestimated our country in the past. I'm finishing with two phrases. The issues of recent days have been mentioned about violence, which has developed - the unacceptable violence - on the part of a policeman, who has very quickly entered those procedures, not a simple SAD. I would like to remind my SYRIZA colleagues that it was your law that brought the Citizens' Counsel to participate in any investigations, but, unfortunately, you did not arm him with any of the weapons that he had to have either the investigation procedure or the possibility of conducting investigations, gathering information, being able to operate, i.e. as an independent 'prosecutor'. And it is the law of the Government of New Democracy, which came last February, Mr.4662 Article 188, which you also voted on, of course, which actually gives these possibilities to the Citizens' Counselor and proves that this government respects the procedures of the Constitution, strengthens them and really wants any truth to be seen and no facts are covered, as has unfortunately been said in this Chamber. I shall refer personally to the rapporteur for the Staff Regulations. He may not remember. I was a young journalist in the early 1980s, but I remember that he was always accurate in his reasons. I think, my dear fellow Member, that you have failed in two of your phrases today. One was when you said - and I say it as I pointed out - 'You are turning us into the pre-multiple regime'. The pre-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-state regime we all know what it was.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u109	Questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u110	Look at this in the Minutes and if you want, put the question mark to ease what was created as an impression. And a second sentence, which I hold and repeat just as you have said. You said: 'You have a strategy of directed violence and polarization'. You will allow me to tell you that I am sorry for this phrase. All I can do is return it to you, because I fear that in the last few days your policy has been much more tied to this phrase. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr Roussepoulou and especially for keeping time. Mr Lippe Athanasios has the floor, and then Mr Kokkalis Vassilis must be prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will briefly refer to the incidents of violence in recent days, which have caused tensions and revolts, but also a serious political climate. At such times, the primary objective is for democratic institutions to continue to operate and justice to do its job. Violence is not tolerated wherever it comes from and I believe that this is unnegotiable from all of us. Our role, as parliamentarians - representatives of the people, is not to throw oil into the fire, but to operate together. The disgusting reason triggers a degraded setting and a turbulence arises. In particular, in the current critical health situation, it is important to maintain social cohesion. In relation, Mr President, with today's bill, we are debating the ratification of the recent decision by the European Commission and the Council, which must be voted on by the parliaments of all Member States. This is a historic decision of the European Union, as it marks a significant change in the financial instruments of the Union budget. For the first time, it enables the European Union to borrow from the capital markets in order to support the imperative and increased needs of the Member States. To deal with the consequences of the pandemic, the committee can now borrow a total of EUR 750 billion, of which EUR 360 billion is intended for loans and EUR 390 billion for expenditure. In fact, it is explicitly foreseen that the net borrowing activity should be completed by 2026 and all the committee’s lending obligations should be repaid by the end of 2058. There is a permanent increase in the amount of own resources to 1.4% from 1.23% for payment appropriations and 1.66% from 1.29% for commitment appropriations for the European Union budget. At the same time, there is a temporary and exceptional increase in own resources ceilings by 0.6 percentage points. As far as existing own resources are concerned, the percentage collected by the Member States from customs duties, which is being retained and assigned to the European Union by the 25%. It is important to add a new resource to the European Union with an environmental dimension. It is the single 80 minutes per kilogram, calculated from the weight of unrecycled plastic packaging. It is an initiative that has economic benefits and strengthens the European Union's revenue, stimulates the culture of recycling and helps reduce environmental pollution. The method of calculating the own resource resulting from the value added tax shall be simplified. A uniform rate of 0.30% is now applied for all Member States on VAT revenue. Part II of the draft law requires amendments to the functioning of the Financial Stability Fund, which have been approved by the European Central Bank. It is permitted by the Financial Stability Fund to participate in an increase in equity capital of a credit institution, even when it is not required for reasons of resolution of deficits. In this way, they defend the financial interests of the fund, since maintaining the rate implies greater value of its participation. A condition for participation in the capital increase is to ensure private sector participation under the same conditions, i.e. by taking over the same risks, but having the same advantages. A decision of the General Board of the Fund, following a report by two independent financial advisers, is required. The Fund has so far been abolished in the same position as the State in the event of a special liquidation of the credit institution, as provided for in European legislation. The role of the fund is supportive of the banking system, which has suffered considerable damage in recent years. However, the role of the fund was intended to have a finite duration when the conditions allowed it. The implementation of the progressive decommissioning of the fund by credit institutions requires the strengthening of the banking system. In this context, the expansion of the ‘red’ loans was one of the burning issues that this government was asked to deal with and it seems that the government initiative with the ‘HRAKLIS’ programme has given guarantees to the Greek State in ‘red’ loans. The high level of financial pressure due to the suspension of operations within the pandemic led the European Union to take brave decisions and measures. The European economy can come out of this crisis almost without the Recovery Fund, of which Greece is expected to make use of 32 billion euros, one of the largest amounts as a percentage of GDP. The recovery fund's money will be directed to reform projects, with a view to establishing a stable development track for the country. In addition, between 2021 and 2027, Greece will receive EUR 39.9 billion from the multiannual financial framework. The sizes are particularly high, considering the huge gain that our country is gaining. For each euro that we give as a contribution to the European Union, we receive EUR 4.6 from the Multiannual Financial Framework and from the Recovery Fund. It is a great responsibility to manage the money that is going to be invaded in our country, and it is a crucial role for the current government, which has launched the use of European funds for green transition, digital transformation, employment, social cohesion and investment with a view to the development of our economy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u113	Thank you too, Mr Ljupe, and I will say this once again - as always, you always keep the time, in your brief speech. Mr. Vassilis Kokalis from SYRIZA has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, three and a half months of curfew, three and a half months of trade and economy is closed, six and a half thousand dead. Public transport measures do not exist. There are no measures to combat the coronary in the workplace. Since this morning, we have heard half the experts say that we probably had the wrong decisions and half the others say that measures need to be more stringent. At the same time, the government's only record is that the next two weeks will be critical. Really, how many times have we heard that! Instead of the government taking a responsible political attitude, it is, unfortunately, investing in matters that are disoriented to public opinion. And I want to be clear: violence is condemned by clear words, not by half. You cannot condemn one fact and the other not to condemn it. The Prime Minister cannot appear to be so dissatisfied in Greek society. And it is not in common sense that the government's argument that violence is motivated by the Civic Opposition. And let me tell you why it is not true: because the social environment in which we live, the problems that the world has are well known. It is therefore at least funny to say that, regardless of some unfortunate statements, violence is motivated by the Civic Opposition. And I come to the bill, Minister. For Part One, the rapporteur has already said that we agree. I'm coming to the Financial Stability Fund. Here I heard from the Government that Certification has ruled and stands awkward on this particular issue at the Financial Stability Fund. You said, Minister - and Mr Stakoras and you - that you are bringing the same provision that the previous government had adopted with No.4339/2015. 'We bring the same provision!' Anyone who hears this is asking himself: why don't you vote on it, after they bring in the same order, gentlemen of the Anti-Population Officer? You have also called on the committee and you and Mr Stavrou to make a decision on the Ice Board and you said that the legislative proposal you are making is in line with the decision of the Ice Board. Mr Stavros has already presented it in the Minutes. But it is not the same provision, Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government. It is not the same because today the words ‘and on this basis constitute a diligent management of the fund's property, which is subordinated otherwise to the second paragraph’. That phrase was missing. Somebody's gonna say, what does that mean? It's a big deal about how the different philosophy of the previous government dealt with the immunity of bank officials in relation to today. Let me say this as simple as possible without legal concepts and terminologies. By law of 2017, in particular with Law 4472 and Article 65, Minister, did we say that bank executives are exempted from criminal liability - when? - when conducting acts or omissions intended - what do they have? - have derecognised debts by borrowers. What does that mean? That was then intended to protect borrowers. Right this far? That's right, I think so. You came in November 2019, and the infidelity of a malicious nature for the bank executives abolished it from the autogovernment and demanded indictment, i.e. from the bank executives themselves. And you come here today and say, although you said that we are making a legal parallel, 'nearly the same provision we are now doing'. But it came constitutional with the decision of the Ice Arrow! Do you know what you're doing with this provision? You're pretty sure someone's doing it before they do it, she's doing it right. That's unbelievable. Before he does anything! That is why they are diligent management of his property, that is, you are giving him a presumption from now of legality and diligent management. And you have the requirement? And I ask: Who will check whether these bodies serve the public interest? This absence of the phrase - it was in the previous law - which it legislated - let me have the acrobatic 'legislation of absence' - who is it doing? The public interest. Why? He'll be able to control it. When you come as a legislator and say, Minister, that this, that is to say, selling at a lower price, is diligent management, you tie hands to anyone who wants to control for anything. And I ask: is Census not working against and not voting for it? Isn't that right, and he's voting against it? Let me briefly mention - and I conclude - what the Ice Arena decision says: 'Contracted amnesty' - the one you have referred to -'may be said if the legislator removes the criminality of certain non-political crimes'. I mean here - in my view - there is a disguised amnesty. When you come as a legislator and say that what he will do in the future, as he does, is legal in advance, you don't have to have legal knowledge to say that this is apart from law, against law and against logic. These are my comments on the Financial Stability Fund.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u115	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u116	I shall conclude, Mr President. However, it would be advisable to deal with the provision that we have enabled bankers to delete loans for the benefit of borrowers and see whether they have implemented it, if implemented it, because it was introduced and voted for the benefit of borrowers at that time. Mr President, I should like to close two points with regard to the financial measures announced today. I think there are certain stimuli measures on the market, which are already in red, such as the trade tax. We cannot talk about a trade, when this trade, work, is not provided, for a job tax which is closed with a state mandate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u117	Mr. Red, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u118	We cannot deal with the recipients of the cheques as well and make rough and fragmentary moves to defer the obligations to pay the cheques. We cannot talk about postponement of insurance obligations only when the insurance obligations cannot be paid for during the pandemic, because there was no work. And work is directly linked to the levy, with the word 'contribution'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u119	Please complete. You've been over ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u120	Ten more seconds, Mr President. Finally, because of the amendment to the beneficiaries of the 'ESTIA' programme - and they are third-party beneficiaries - it is not just the municipalities - I would propose that young farmers should also benefit. You know that the grant of the beneficiaries of the young farmers' programme can be seized. Why are these people here - whoever people, the beneficiaries of the 'ESTIA' programme - incomprehensible to the subsidy and not to the young farmers? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you very much, too. I will give the floor to support Amendment No 792/119/10-32021 by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Michaelidou. Here, Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to present the amendment from the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, in particular its three provisions. With the first provision, which is being put forward to vote, what we are calling for is clarification of the sources of funding for the OAS training and apprenticeship centres. In particular, this is an amendment which proposes to correct, if you like, L.4763/2020, which does not include in the sources of funding from the OAU's apprenticeship centres the Union sources of funding. So, by this provision, we are proposing that the sources of funding should be regarded as state-owned but also Union-wide. The second provision concerns the extension of e-ECA cleaning contracts. Unfortunately, e-ECA did not manage to launch the tender for new fixed-term cleaning contracts, so we propose extending these contracts until 31 May 2021, so that public hygiene conditions can be observed in the e-ECA for both workers and our fellow citizens who visit the e-ECA services and many of them may belong to increased-risk groups. Finally, with the third provision, we propose ensuring the sustainability of the “Piraeus Farm”, a nursing home that has shown historical consistency in its sustainability and at the same time in providing high-level services to our third-age citizens. For this reason, we call for the suspension of the insurance and tax information of the "Piraeus House" for six months, at the same time as its right to receive grants and grants, without being offset by its debts, whether in public funds or in taxation, so as to ensure the continuation of the very substantial services given to our fellow citizens of the third age in Piraeus. It is a provision that we propose precisely because the nursing home has come into this situation. Because it has complied with the protocols very strictly - it has become very specific financial control - and because it has kept the protocols of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and has not imported during the months of the pandemic, it has come to this very difficult economic situation, so it is our absolute priority to be able to support them so that our fellow citizens of the third age and their families are relieved and offered services of a very high level. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Anastasios Deskakis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Alexandros Flabouraris from SYRIZA. Here you go, Mr. Publics. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I visited the General Military Hospital of Athens in the morning "401" the seriously injured police Angel, a modern hero and a defender of order and fairness in the performance of his service, who withstanded the attempted homicide in the recent sad episodes of Nea Smyrna. As the healing doctors, the hospital administration, the patient and his parents informed me, his health improves. He's out of danger, with serious injuries. Fortunately, as he confessed, he was lucky. We therefore hope for his rapid recovery and soon return to his family and duties. And now I'm coming over to the bill. The present draft law contains critical provisions concerning, on the one hand, the progress and support of the economy, on the other hand, the basis of the sound and orderly functioning of the banking system. Since the start of the sanitary battle, the European Union has been the main contributor to the Member States, introducing, essentially, the necessary financial instruments to keep their economies upright, to ensure social cohesion and to move towards recovery. Today we are ratifying the EURATOM decision, which is part of the historic agreement reached at the July 2020 European Council, ensuring the necessary financial instruments, namely the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 and the establishment of the Recovery Fund. In fact, Greece is one of the most lucky countries in this agreement, because the inputs it will receive will be one of the highest in the eurozone as a percentage of GDP. Minister, we are sure that you will make effective use of the financial package and wisely so that the Greek economy will recover more quickly and with greater dynamism. It is expected through these Union funds that the country will benefit from multiple sectors, such as the single market, economic and social cohesion, security issues, as well as migration, where necessary. This legislative initiative shall review how the Union budget is financed. In this way, the committee is given the opportunity for the first time to lend funds from the markets to ensure a rapid and large scale available financial capacity for recovery support measures and the resilience of the European economy, contributing to avoiding further pressures on national budgets due to the unprecedented health crisis. The amount of own resources ceilings allocated to the financing of the European Union budget shall also be redefined. The timely ratification and implementation of the own resources Decision is crucial for the activation of the Recovery Fund's resources, which can put into orbit the implementation of emblematic projects across the country and, of course, in the extreme Evros, ensuring its multi-level armour. Minister, the dams of the Great Dereio, Soufli, Manthia Ferra Alexandroupolis and Aspronei Dimouch can play a catalyst role in the flooding of the areas and not only, while the irrigation work "Petalos" of Peplos is also crucial for the region, where works are carried out with regard to the deterrent obstacle to the prevention of breaches of our borders. These are projects which will ensure irrigation, water and electricity production by strengthening the economic development of the region. In addition, it includes provisions on how the Financial Stability Fund operates, which will now act as a private investor and not as a capital support mechanism, effectively defending its investment in a businessly determined capital increase. The provisions will enhance the ability of the Greek credit institutions in which the Fund is involved to cope with the pathogens of the past, as well as future challenges due to the recent crisis, both in the quality of the assets and in their capital adequacy, while facilitating the attraction of investors to Greek banks and strengthening strategies to attract new capital on market terms, thereby giving the necessary flexibility to their planning. An important step in this direction is the provision of government decommissioning from the banks. Corporate governance is also strengthened with independent decision-making by the fund's institutions, while clarifying the status regarding the liability of the fund members. Therefore, we are at a time when the banking system is changing page. Ladies and gentlemen, modern challenges also require common coordination. With Olympic resistance and planning, the government is driving the country from the darkness of the pandemic into the clearing of development, now being a strong and trustworthy partner of the European building, which is a pretext for the effective foreign policy of the current government. The government is dealing with a lot of sensitive issues relating to progress, development and production. I very much welcome, as I have just been informed by the Minister of Finance himself, but also by the Ministry of Rural Development, that an amendment giving a solution to the problem of land workers is imminent. I am delighted to welcome this decision in order to table the relevant amendment regulating the problem of employment of third country workers on agricultural land. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This decision is in line with my request, which I tabled under No 1483 parliamentary reference from 9 February to transfer the agony of the sprain producers in the Evros region, of the garlic producers and onions. At the same time, however, as far as we know, other regions of northern Greece have the same problem and not just. Evros is the field of activity of agricultural cooperatives which, as I said before, produce products which are often intended for foreign purposes. In this way, resolving the issue of workers' hands means, Mr President, that our farmers will respect their trade agreements and will not face any clauses and bad reputation. In support of what I have said, I am presenting for the Minutes of this House the parliamentary reference to the request, as I have described with the closure of my speech. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Anastasios Prussakis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much for your attention. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Prussias. Now, Mr. Flamouraris will take the floor and then Mr. Charalambos Papadimitriou will take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u126	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it has become clear that your investment in media to sing a failed government is beginning to run out. The supposedly successful management of the pandemic has been shown by failed lockdowns that neither the pandemic block nor the market help. On the contrary, they're cleaning her up. The magical picture of the number of ICUs has become clear. Thousands of two or thousands of four hundred ICUs have left. The number of ICUs is the ones that are intubated and even less. No substantial support to doctors and nursing staff was available, and primary health care was hardly working at all. The schools were closed instead of being open with fewer students. The crowd in public transport continues. The new buses have not even seen them, and people are going to work stacked and unsafe. For the economy, one cannot question that, in the first quarter of 2021, the recession is scoring, despite forecasts of a recovery. Thousands of unemployed, but also the suspended workers, spend 534 euros a month. Hundreds of thousands of businesses are closed and half of them will never be opened again. Citizens see these and their own eyes, despite attempting to deform lenses. They see the inability of the state of staff and their staff to deal with the effects of pandemic on health and social conditions. And what's the government doing? Recruitment to police, creation of all kinds of police corps, and of course authoritarianism, threats and sometimes wood. We have a government that has the police to answer every question, any problem that exists and not, above all, the subject of common crime. The government is authoritarian and anti-linguistic, with particular zeal for deforestation of decades in terms of labour rights, for example. It is an anti-democratic government, a government 'individual', clientele from vaccination to financial aid for large companies. It is a government of what we call 'the direct delegation', which has become hundreds. It is a government that challengs and orchestrates uncontrolled violence and puts the blame on Civic Anti-Civilization and on the whole in Anti-Civilization, and it is clear to all Greeks that it is all its responsibility, because, as we all know, violence is causing violence and does not face violence. Ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, I have the feeling that the world is aware of the fact that authoritarianism, hypocrisy and policies are raising citizens. You do so consciously, and that is why you are fully responsible. It is now obvious that the concepts of a New Democracy government and a public interest have proved to be contrary. And now in relation to the bill under discussion, I would just like to make one reference to the first part. We believe it is a cowardly step of EUR 750 billion for the Recovery Fund. It is, however, one step and we must also give our country and the countries of the south a tough and substantial battle so that this step, in fact, can be taken quickly, really, to extend or cancel the implementation of budgetary stability, because it has indeed been proved throughout Europe that this policy has created spaces and countries where poverty and, indeed, difficult to deal with life itself. With regard to the second part of the draft referred to in the Financial Stability Fund, it is a provision that, in our assessment, not only does it not ensure the protection of the property of the Fund itself and, by extension of the public interest, but it may well prove to be harmful. Instead of proposing changes to the fund's contribution to the funds of the banks as a positive contribution to the role they have to play in restoring the economy, and in particular to the provision of liquidity for thousands of businesses, particularly SMEs and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are particularly affected by the effects of the pandemic, or to make a positive contribution to financing development, the fair and environmentally balanced balance that we propose, you are, on the contrary, proposing that the fund be withdrawn from the banks and delivered to the private sector and in terms that are vague. We therefore propose that the fund stays in the funds of the banking institutions with social control and a bank, which, in our assessment, is necessary to work positively in the country's development effort and must be placed under public and social control. This, in fact, if you look at the articles 6 and 7 which are mentioned in the management bodies, what you are proposing today, namely the Executive Committee and the General Council, will see that what you are seeking and what you are proposing is, in fact, the immunity of Members of this House for any harmful choices that will be made in cases of participation of the CFS in an increase in the share capital of banks, and indeed by limiting its rights, such as the restriction and exclusion of the right of preference. It is also allowed not to participate in an increase in share capital, with only a reduction in its assets, or to participate, and when it takes shares without having all the privileges of the previous shares. And if he sells out of the new shares, then they'll be removed from the privileges. These are elements which, in fact, appallingly restrict the possibility of intervention as we have previously proposed and thus, in fact, with what you are bringing the banking system together and without conditions - you can say - to private investors. In these provisions, it is reasonable and natural for us to oppose it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u127	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u128	I conclude by saying two things which, in our view, are very critical. We think and hope that immunity should not function in the direction of two crucial issues which now exist in the banking system. One issue is the attempt to re-private Piraeus Bank, i.e. by increasing share capital and not participating in Piraeus Bank, we will have a reduction, which is why it is being reinvested. We would really like to hear what the position is and what the representative's attitude was to Piraeus Bank for the conversion of the 'Cos' was.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u129	Finish, Mr. Flambury, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u130	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you. It was not possible and it was not decided to repay the interest to the CFS by Piraeus Bank alone with shares and not cash. The second issue is national insurance. He has been referred to the administration of the CFS. We need an answer. We believe that the sale should not be made under these conditions, but to consider whether it can, in fact, be better used by the introduction of the Stock Exchange. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much. I am going to make a proposal, in view of the fact that there are too many speakers, and we are still going to be long. I do not know whether the rapporteurs will be able to take the floor, but I do not think it will be done. With your consent, without meaning that we keep it accurately, I suggest that we do the time for six minutes, with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much. Mr Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy and then Mrs Eleftheriadou Sultana from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Truth is usually much simpler when it's not twisted, and that's just what's happened. When we say that the police officer did not do his job there in the square on Sunday afternoon, we say this because he exercised violence which was not foreseen, which was incompatible, and in this way he limited the citizens' rights in this regard. What they said to each other I don't know, who the citizen is, I don't know. Ideas aren't hunting. But from there on they all have to have a certain way of acting. Our problem is indeed in the squares. It's because the man, the family, needs to breathe somewhere. But not go to propaganda anyone who believes they can do the next day, if they create an incident, cause what you caused in New Smyrna. Because you have caused it and you have all moral and political responsibility. I hope that this will be the last time and that the lesson you have learned is sufficient, although everything shows that at the moment the exact same problem is going on outside. The cases are rising, the problems exist. We want to deal with them together, but it seems that you have decided to cut this part of your interests from where all people here in Greece are right now on it. Anyway, we'll move on. In a few weeks, we're going to get out of this tight pandemic situation. I hope that the vaccines will enable May to be opened with immunity. And there you will really see how things will change and I hope that, even then, you will understand that you were wrong. Because I realise that the big problem you have in the party is that things didn't go as badly as you had calculated them. That is ultimately the problem, it is a political problem. They didn't go so bad to have something to say. They went a lot better than we were afraid they would. Why? In any case, most of the necessary adjustments have been made. That's how we got to 31.5 billion. From this step I had the honour of being rapporteur on behalf of the majority on the budget and I said that seven might not be enough, maybe we should go another 3-4 and agree. Let's finally agree, get out of the country, then fight all you want. After all, if you think there is another way, democracy is open. Tomorrow morning it is very easy for your party president to ask for elections. I come to another point, because it is rare that pleasure and I did not have it, and I am very grateful to the voters who gave me such a chance to watch within Parliament this rare pleasure of having one after the other, two colleagues, two politicians, two people who did not do well in 2015. And yes, Mr. Tsakalotos escaped the country, signing a place he would never want to have done it, but Mr. Varoufakis, who with a lot of enthusiasm came here to say, between lies and other confusing things, as he does, that in 2015 everything went well and demand that the investigation, which he calls for you - you, Mr. Tsakalotes - be signed to investigate in 2015. You should know that I personally agree. It's the Prime Minister who didn't agree, because he hoped we could leave the crisis behind. But, in any case, after this pleasure of seeing two people, who have great responsibilities for this period, trying to simply remove their responsibilities from them, I think we should come to three things that you are wrong. After that, Mr President, I hope very quickly. Mr. Flambury, you know very well, you were one of the people you were active in banking. I remember very well when you sat on the table with the bank officials to get away with "Marinopoulos" and you did well. It is useful for the government to be present, not to intervene, not to take responsibility which obviously does not belong to it. So you are first-hand aware that the reason why this minimum protection must be available against any backdrop which will rush for its own interests to hunt the executives at the banks, the reason why this protection must be available is so that we can control them where they really have to do their jobs. Because - and I beg your pardon, Mr Chakalote, you know - you have a prosecutor chasing bank officials with evidence that was just posted left and right and you know that all these cases, one after another, have fallen. In the meantime, however, the banking system has suffered a terrible damage - difficult to measure, I agree, but appalling damage - precisely because of this precaution that was not there at that time and which is now to exist. I would also like to say one more thing to you that the fact that Greece can put one and take five back is something in which we have thankfully all agreed in this Chamber that it is important. And I, Mr. Flambury, with you, that 750 are very little, and I said it when they decided. I wish we could go through this much, but more importantly it is to take the budget, if you want, to go beyond the Maastricht rule, this rule which all of us are bound by and for more years. I personally believe that this exception should go to at least 2025. But let us not forget that we have to agree at some point. The buses were very few, for all the reasons, among other things, because you cultivated a culture that lacked income from the organization. Now it's more. It's not enough. The problem will obviously exist. But let us finally get out of his culture 'I don't pay, because someone else will pay'. Why? Because the damage that happened when we lost close to 50-60 billion deposits in a few months, I think it's the one I'll expect to hear Mr. Tsakalotos analyse it and explain it whenever he has the pleasure. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr Papadimitriou, for keeping time. Mrs. Eleftheriad Sultana has the floor from SYRIZA. After the speech Mr Kavadas will be given from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u135	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, in the last few days we have all watched images of creepy and unwitting violence, organs of the class beating unnecessarily and unnecessarily simple citizen with a metallic folding globe in the head, violations of provocative elements and brutally attacking a police officer, at the same time a total peaceful protest of thousands of residents, pupils and workers, and then, of course, we have seen all these flawed videos of police violence and arbitrary action in the narrow and neighbourhoods of Nea Smyrna. The Prime Minister went out immediately after the second incident to order us to be cool, restraint and tone down, declaring terrified and overwhelmingly overwhelmed by the fact of the attack on the police. But he did not apologise to us because, as "KATHMERINA" reveals, since noon on Tuesday he knew about a hooligan violence date, instead of having to take care to ensure social peace on the afternoon of the same day, he chose and ordained the slander against his political opponents. It was obviously more important. He didn't tell us why, Mr. Chrysochoidis, he didn't protect the cops themselves. We saw the video trying to embolize the hooligans, throwing flare and molotov - I don't know what the cops were throwing - and then what happened. Mr Chrysochoidis did not have the provision, while he knew it at noon, to protect them. Of course, even today you haven't learned your lesson. You continued today in Thessaloniki to invest in division by unjustified use of repression and violence. The police today dissolved - supposedly dismantled - occupation at the university, and it was known that it was decided by the students to end the occupation at 11 a.m. in the morning. It even moved so violently that journalists, witnesses who were in - why he did not let other journalists come in - describe - say rather - that students and students were ordered to lie down, police officers bound their hands with tire up and later - unknown to what criterion - a selection of those who will be brought in and those who will be released was made free. Mr Mitsotakis continues to have a total lack of empathy, while the climate remains tense. He continues overproduction of violence and repression to terrorise youth and society in general. And, mostly, what's his target? To cover its political choice not to strengthen the public health system. Your arrogance and stubborn refusal to accept your mistakes and omissions led to social unrest. Your tactics to use the crisis as an opportunity to bring and vote against anti-grass bills and gifts to systemic media, friends and dictators is the reason people came out on the street. And, unfortunately, if you bring the bills we expect, the work, the insurance and the others will, unfortunately, come back. You are still the right one described by Mr Chrysochidis a few years ago. "You are the awkward Right, which thinks with logic in the 1950s and attempts with yuru and machetes to deal with the crime." They are not my words, they are Mr Chrysochoidis who added: "Social issues will not fight them with the police. The police never solved social problems." It seems Mr Chrysochidis has forgotten about this now. All he remembers is that New Democracy won the election in 2019. However, he acts as an opposition and refuses to assume his responsibilities, and he should at least resign, even invoke personal reasons. Of course, we are condemning all the events of violence and trabbing in recent days. I too, personally, having a brother of police, also condemn the attack on the police officer, the same as the police officer's attack on the ordinary citizen. With regard to the bill, for the first part of the bill, we are obviously in favour of increasing the European Union's own resources and financing the Recovery Fund. After all, the debate on this has started a long time ago and Greece must play a leading role. Unfortunately, however, it seems that we also remain compromising and ready to accept what is decided. In the second part of the bill and the provisions concerning the Financial Stability Fund, your objective is obvious. You want to convert it into a State aid body by weakening the State as a shareholder, since it participates in increasing the share capital, but does not participate in the Board. You have in front of you the case of Piraeus Bank and National Insurance. What are you doing? First of all, you are making sure that it applies to the members of the fund, as you have done in the past and to the banks - in the recent past - their effective discharge, their immunity from criminal and civil liability, should they have their actions damaged the Greek State. In other words, the fund organs will be able to sell the shares of the credit institutions that the fund holds even at degrading prices without any consequence. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. They will now be able to commit infidelity over EUR 120,000 punishable by imprisonment of up to ten years and have no effect. And of course you are abolishing the privileged ranking of the fund in the event of the liquidation of a bank institution, i.e. while the fund is a shareholder, it will be satisfied after the private shareholder. This is unprecedented and, indeed, it will have terrible consequences for the Greek State. For Piraeus Bank you have not answered what you are going to do. Will the fund exercise all its rights to increase its capital by contributing 600 million in order to maintain the value of their share at 61% or decrease it to 30%? Of course, in this case, if it falls, the public will lose 2 billion. Of course, I will finally refer to the National Insurance. The legal coverage of the members of the Board of Directors of the Financial Stability Fund that is being voted on by you today will pave the way for the Fund to take over as a major shareholder of the National Bank or not to accept the offer submitted for the sale of the National Insurance. The sale of the National Insurance, the offer, is less than 40% of the net value of the National Insurance. It will, in fact, be a sale. It is true that we are opposed, as Mr Flamouraris said before. Even if the executives of the fund will not have any criminal and civil responsibility tomorrow for their decisions, even if their movements at the expense of the public and in the case of Piraeus Bank and in the case of National Insurance, your political responsibility will remain intact for the provisions you bring, as well as for all the other bills you have brought. You'll be judged by society. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, Mrs. Eleftheriadou. Mr. Athanasios Kavadas from New Democracy has the floor. To prepare Mr. Ioannis Loverdos, also from the New Democracy. Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today in the House has two objectives. The first objective is linked to the ratification of the Council Decision of 14 December 2020, which has a central dimension, since it is linked to the Recovery Fund. The second objective is linked to strengthening the prospects for the development of our banking system, prospects relating to the financing of the economy and business, as well as to the stability and shielding of the banking system. The ratification of Council Decision 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the European Union’s own resources system is based on the decisions of the July 2020 Summit. I would remind you that there was the historic decision on the Recovery Fund. The ratification we are debating today is very important, since the new opportunity for the European Union to borrow itself from the markets on behalf of its members is gained. In our country, through the Community budget for the period 2021-2027, they account for EUR 72 billion. It is the largest European financial programme for our country since the beginning of accession to the European family. It is the most effective tool we have, to relaunch our national economy on a new basis and to form stable growth prospects over time. The ratification of this agreement gives the scope and temporary authorisation of the European Commission to borrow funds from international markets up to EUR 750 billion by 2026. The method of repayment of the debt obligations shall be determined and it shall be provided that all liabilities arising from the European Union’s lending will be fully repaid by 31 December 2058 at the latest. As is well known from the agreement that has been made, 360 billion will be grants to the Member States of the European Union and 360 billion will be loans. The ratification of this agreement also establishes a new own resource for financing the European Union's budget. It is about applying a single rate of EUR 0.80 per kilogram to the weight of plastic packaging waste produced in each Member State and not recycled. The second part of the draft law amends legal provisions relating to the operation of the Financial Stability Fund. I listen with caution to colleagues from the Qualified Opposition to criticise these laws and to talk about the functioning of the banking system and I really wonder if they can underestimate our intelligence in such an uninvited way. As they all know, in the period 2010-2014 two bank recapitalisations were made, with the State gaining the majority of the shares in the banks. In 2014, when the situation was normalised and stabilised, the way was open to the State to sell its shares to private and institutional investors, thus gaining valuable revenues, as well as ensuring the stability of the banking system and the financing of the economy. But then the SYRIZA - ANEL government came. The withdrawal of deposits of EUR 40 billion, of capital controls and of the collapse in bank stock prices resulted in EUR 30 billion lost from the previous recapitalisations and the need for a new recapitalisation. With this new recapitalisation, the work of SYRIZA - ANEL government, the Greek State lost EUR 18.5 billion. With this recapitalisation, which is the work and responsibility of the SYRIZA - ANEL Government, the banks’ shares were set from EUR 0,1 to EUR 0.4 when they previously had a value of up to EUR 4.29. We haven't forgotten all this. And the worst thing about the Corps party is that people haven't forgotten about it. The draft law, which the government is bringing to the vote today, strengthens the banks, in which the Financial Stability Fund is involved. They are strengthened to enable them to fulfil their role, which is to finance and provide liquidity to the economy. It is facilitated to attract private and investment capital to the banks. The Financial Stability Fund shall safeguard and strengthen its role and rights in terms of public interest. How are these rights guaranteed? With the possibility that the Financial Stability Fund may now participate in increasing the bank’s share capital to its share capital. To date this possibility has not been possible to such an extent. In fact, the Financial Stability Fund will be able to operate and move with the flexibility of a private investor. It is reasonable that there will also be a corresponding gain from the increase in stock exchange values. In all this, we should add that the banking system with the government's institutional initiatives, such as the HARAKLIS project, is exempted from the burden of a significant percentage of red loans, which posed a threat to its stability, but also its ability to finance the economy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'll be back in a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u138	Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u139	Ladies and gentlemen, the government is moving forward and looking ahead. It designs the next day, the future, while some stay in yesterday and attempt to restore to public life the most black pages and practices of the past. This bill captures the design and priorities of the next day, which is to return to sustainable and positive growth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u140	Thank you too, Mr. Kavada. Mr. Ioannis Loverdos from New Democracy has the floor. To prepare Mr. George Tsipras from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill which is being discussed today and which will be voted on shortly by Parliament is a very important bill for one simple reason. Because it endorses a decision taken by the European Union Council of Political Heads from the summit to increase the European Union's own resources and to enable the Recovery Fund to function, which is the only saving of the European economy and hence the Greek one, after the great nightmare, the great catastrophe that all the countries of the world and especially Europe have suffered from the unprecedented pandemic, which we have never met before. I agree with the previous Members, such as Mr Kavvada, who made an excellent speech, or with the excellent suggestion made by the majority rapporteur, Mr Karagunis. I would, however, like to stand by something that many people might not understand when they come here and talk from this Step. At the moment, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy has made a strategic choice: to rescue as much as possible the National Health System and to be able to save as many of our fellow citizens from this unprecedented disease as our planet has not lived for at least a hundred years. This is the choice of the government, not only respectable but, in my opinion, necessary. The National Health System cannot deny hospitality to any of our fellow citizens. Otherwise, the state is falling apart. Today, the situation is dreadful. To say things with their name. They have just been announced - and I am not going to mention cases, they are of secondary importance - five hundred eight tubes. We've gone over five hundred pierced. Do you understand what kind of pressure she is in hospitals? Do you understand how many people right now live with a real nightmare if they can be hospitalized effectively? And with the same nightmare, heroes live for me, doctors and public nurses, to whom we owe a lot and a moral reward, if anything, since our finances are limited. In this unprecedented situation, the country is having a hard time without any doubt. I get it. I understand all those who protest and say that they have a problem, that they don't get through financially, that our psychology is in Nadir. I saw METRON ANALYSIS research showing that young people are the ones who are being tried harder than all psychologically. I understand that, too. I've got two new kids, both students, who have to take class with televised. It's too hard to stay locked in their house. This is not a normal life for young people eighteen, nineteen, twenty, twenty-five years. But it's something that's gonna end. We hope it will be over soon, too. Summer will be much better than what we lived last year thanks to mass vaccinations carried out in an exemplary way by the Greek state, something rare for a state, especially for a Greek state. We are optimistic that in the next few months we will be able to return to a form of normality. That's where hard starts. I say things, as I know them, and as I see them. The economy is suffering and has problems. We have been up all this time, with many 'injections' that have made the financial staff. Not that there were no mistakes and failures. They're done. How could it be done differently? There was no internationally recognised way to deal with a pandemic. But the interventions were made. Many people, in fact, did not succeed and went through too hard and went through even harder. And then we must stand on our feet and be able to turn to growth and economic stability. To be realistic, in the first phase, we cannot stand alone in our own powers. We need this draft adopted by the European Union summit and incorporated into the so-called Recovery Fund. This seven-year period, the six-year period from 2021 to 2027 will be a very difficult period. But we very much hope, with the information we have, that, thanks to the money we receive, we will be able to turn the situation around and meet ourselves responsibly, as is appropriate in a modern liberal democracy, such as Greece. It is clear that we will face shocks. And in this fight, we need to be united. We all need to have a responsible opinion, a point of order, but also a point of order. I'm afraid that's not happening. In no case should Greece who has suffered so much during the last decade, at the time of the memorials and squares of the "indignant" to return to this period. We must not allow hatred, intolerance, violence to prevail. And this is the big bet not only for the Government and the New Democracy, but also for Mr Mitsotakis personally. To remind those who have forgotten that he is the son of Constantine Mitsotakis, who acted on national unity in 1989. That's why when Mr. Tsipras accuses Mr. Mitsotakis of being divided, he's thinking about who he's talking to. We will not allow the squares to prevail. We will not allow the hatred of the hooligan groups who have made the diversions in New Smyrna the other day to prevail. We'll deal with it. But we need everyone's consent. I hope and hope that tomorrow's debate at the highest level of Prime Minister and Chief of Staff of Staff will be possible for the top two political actors in this country to agree on a common line and in a common direction with regard to the disapproval of violence. And I appeal to the Left and SYRIZA not to leave a new division. Our country can't stand it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u142	Thank you too, Mr. Loverdos. Mr. George Tsipras has the floor from SYRIZA. Then Mr. Vassilis Spanakis will speak from the New Democracy. Mr. Tsipras, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the immunity provided by Article 6 to the members of the Financial Stability Fund from infidelity against the public is to remove the fund from the banks. It provides a provocative immunity to the administration of the Financial Stability Fund, defining the public interest under the current stock exchange value, it is enough - it says - to have reports from at least two consultancy companies. He says a representative of the Bank of Greece in committee on March 9th: "The last thing we would like to do would be the Financial Stability Fund hiding behind fear of criminal proceedings to avoid taking decisions on dismissal and disinvestment, i.e. perpetuating its role in credit institutions, which at some point, according to the obligations, would have to end". What exactly does the representative of the Bank of Greece say without spins? It says that the Financial Stability Fund is being called upon by the Bank of Greece and the Government to take decisions that if there were no regulation on immunity brought by this bill, these decisions would be indicted by criminal procedures, i.e. for infidelity, that is, illegal, because they harm the Greek State for the benefit of the banks. Given that the financial field has become internationally the field of socialisation of damage and privatisation of profits, the number one internationalisation of profits and nationalisation of losses, is the next step - of course extreme legal hardship - precisely this field should be relieved of possible criminal responsibilities. So, after you have turned the infidelity of bankers into a crime in criminal law, that is only practically once a financial criminal has sued himself, there will be criminal responsibilities - I suspect he will not, I do not know if you have a different opinion - and since you have effectively relieved the bankers of past and future responsibilities, you are now exempting the Financial Stability Fund. This is the culmination of the decriminating economic crime, the crime of white collars, as is internationally called. And that's what happens at the moment when, for example, a poor man gets a housing or a small business loan for his family and he can't pay it back, you get everything by bankruptcy law. The one responsible for the infidelity of millions of government or a bank is relieved, while the poor man loses everything. But these are populism. Let's get through to the point. As I spoke about populism, and since I have time, I would like to make an observation about Mr Loverdo, not the previous one, but the change movement that he spoke about this morning. Mr Loverdos told us - because he spoke to Mr Verkyo - that 37 billion has been lost from the Financial Stability Fund. But it says it's populism to say 37 billion lost. He put 42 billion and there are 5 billion left, 37 billion lost. That's populism. But he criticised the rapporteur of the New Democracy, who was not specifically mentioned in the 10 billion lost in 2015. For the 10 billion lost in 2015, SYRIZA is known to be ‘creating’. It's because of SYRIZA's catastrophic semester. For the previous 25 billion lost until 2014, the 10 billion lost in 2014 and the 15 billion lost until 2013, there is populism. There, it's nobody's fault. It is only those who lost 10 billion in 2015. So I leave populism and come to the point. What is the government's strategy for the banking area? That is the most important question for all of us. I imagine you do not consider the question populism. What's the government's strategy? Is the disinvestment from the Financial Stability Fund? If that is the policy - because that is what we have heard in the committees too - it is not a strategy. In my opinion, it would be three things at the same time - which is the minimum - to reduce the risks to the Greek banking system, this policy, this strategy, to reassure, in other words, the Greek banking system, to do so, secondly, without taking any anti-development measures, measures to the detriment of small and medium-sized enterprises and small-sized owners, such as you, for example, do so by the Banking Code and, finally, to make a banking system, not ten families, not ten, 50, 100 families, but of the Greek economy, with the particular features of the Greek economy, the extensive space for small and medium-sized enterprises, etc. Such a strategy does not exist and is not apparent from anywhere. What's the outrageous thing about this? You don't even have a bank consolidation strategy. In other words, let the support of the Greek economy go to good, let support for the small and medium-sized ones go to good. You don't even have a strategy to restructure the banking area itself. That's not gonna happen either. And it will not only be because you have offered them every immunity needed to continue the same sinful course until now, but also because you are preparing a new bleeding from the Greek State to the banks with the policy for the CFSF in the future. Point number one. You are making all tons of the need to disinvest and convert the CFS by a rescue tool to an investor. However, it will rather be a very strange investment tool, since it will in fact be a one-way investor, an outlet investor and a loss-making investor from private investors. Secondly, it is a huge contrast that the conversion of the Piraeus Bank's CoCos was recently presented as supervisoryly imposed on what you are currently promoting, as supervised by European authorities, while the Piraeus Bank's administration sought to pay the coupon normally if that is the case. So the SSM supervisor for but protects Piraeus's capital adequacy did not allow her to pay the coupon and imposed their conversion into shares. Why did he do that? Obviously because there is a risk, there is a risk. Now suddenly and in the middle of a pandemic - oh of the miracle! - the risk has passed and we are preparing the CFSF to participate in investment increases that investors will have to make to participate. One of the two doesn't. Either the supervisor sees a risk or it's all good and investors run to invest. It can't happen both. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Thirdly, the whole bill calls for curiosity and haste. Why all this rush, is it? It deals with issues of interest to the private shareholders of the banks, but does not address issues relating to the interests of the CFS itself and the Greek State. Fourthly, the HFSF will hold two classes of common shares of banks, firstly those with the reduced voting rights under Article 7(3), which are not amended, which the HFSF received from earlier equity increases and, secondly, ordinary common shares that it receives in the future equity capital increases. We in the world know no other example of this coexistence. While retaining shares with reduced voting rights, the preferential satisfaction of the CFS is abolished in the event of the liquidation of a participating bank. In other words, privileges are being abolished and reduced rights remain. And the last thing I want to say - and I close - is that it does not touch the bill at all - and has been put on the table by many others - the entire distorting framework for the participation of the CFSF in the CFS and the banks' administrations and maintains all colonial dependencies from the European institutions that have imposed the Memorandum. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u144	Thank you too, Mr. Tsipras. Mr Spanakis from New Democracy has the floor, and then Mr Constantinidis will follow. Here, Mr Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, allow me to begin my position on today's bill, as a Member of the South sector of Athens, to say in this Chamber that SYRIZA has enormous political responsibilities for the events of Nea Smyrna. It's not acceptable. The attitude towards the inhabitants and the history of New Smyrna is unacceptable. It is found in a huge political deadlock and is at risk every day, exploiting fatigue and creating social tension with despicability. And if anyone disagrees with SYRIZA's executives in this situation, I would refer him to the statements by former SYRIZA MP, who said that there was organised mobilisation of SYRIZA members from all southern suburbs to participate in the marches. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, stop pretending to Greek citizens. Look at the situation. Look at the danger, the health crisis that is going through not only our country, but the whole world and stand responsibly towards Greek citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law we are debating and we shall be voting on today is really very important. Both the decision of the European Council and the second part containing the provisions on the Financial Stability Fund are part of a major reform that will bring growth, investment, economic stability, to establish a strong and healthy banking system, so that our citizens will not live again at the moment of June 2015. In fact, the main responsible for the collapse of the banks is now in this Parliament as party leader, who will vote against the ratification of the decision. This decision for Greece means EUR 72 billion. We are talking about a historic decision, as historical and unprecedented is the health crisis that the whole planet has been living in for over a year. European aid is more than necessary, and our country really is one of the most beneficial in the new decision to strengthen in many areas, in the economy, in work, in society, in the environment, in safety. What, however, does the new decision provide for in simple terms? The main and very essential element is the revision of the method of financing the Union budget. Europe, the committee, is now able to borrow funds from the markets in order to provide directly additional and large-scale resources for the support and recovery measures of the European economy, which is absolutely essential in order for all Member States to face the consequences of the covid health crisis. A second key point is the redefinition of the own resources ceilings allocated to the European Union budget. There is a permanent increase in 1.4% and 1.66% of GDP, while these limits can be temporarily increased by 0.6 percentage points to deal with the economic shocks caused by the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, the ratification by this Parliament of the decision on the European Union's own resources system is imperative and crucial for the activation of the recovery fund, from which Greece will benefit by EUR 31.9 billion and by EUR 39.9 billion from the multiannual framework. For the second part of the draft law and the operation of the Financial Stability Fund: the role of the CFS is redefined and strengthened. Apart from a resolution and stability regulator, the CFS is now becoming an investor, which is also welcomed by the European Central Bank. The HFSF is allowed to participate in the capital increase of credit institutions up to its participation rate and under the specific conditions. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] Mr President, I would like a minute more and thank you very much. It is understood that if the relevant conditions are met, the decisions on the disposal of the holdings are deemed to be a diligent management of the assets of the FVC and the FVC is governed by the rules of the Criminal Code applicable to credit institutions and financial undertakings in the financial sector. It shall also be removed from the specific rights of the CFS in the event of a specific liquidation of a credit institution, the privileged classification and satisfaction of the fund as shareholder of the clearing product for all other shareholders. Finally, it should be noted again that the European Central Bank welcomes the provisions on the CFSF. It considers that it will strengthen the Greek credit institutions, in which the fund participates. But today we also have important amendments. The amendment by the Ministry of Labour regulates the question of the funding of OAS's professional and experimental vocational apprenticeship schools. Let me tell you, Mr President, that more than eight thousand OAED students in vocational schools will benefit from this amendment. We also have other important amendments, such as the one to cover travel expenses for fire personnel. It is further laid down that the amounts paid to the beneficiaries of the programme for the housing of applicants for international protection and used for the payment of rents for the housing of those people are irreparable, unregulated, unregulated, not offset by debts and debts to the State or banks. We also have an amendment that sets out a specific development programme for TAs (a) and (b) the associations of municipalities and their legal persons. Ladies and gentlemen - and here I close and thank you, Mr President, for the time - the New Democracy Government respects, protects the money of Greek taxpayers and, at this very critical period, in which we are, legislates in the interests of the citizens, the professionals, business and, above all, the stability of the economy and the banking system. With the European Union and our relationship with it, a relationship that some wanted to put into adventures, we are moving the economy forward in a new era. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr. Spaniard. Before giving the floor to Mr Constantinidis, I will give the floor to the Minister for Rural Development, Mr Lebanon, to develop the amendment by a general number of 800 and a specialist 126. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this amendment really comes late, and that is why I apologise to my fellow Members and to all the groups. When I was honoured to be a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy, we commented on it and you are right. We must take care of the Rules of Procedure and how we legislate. However, this amendment is indeed - and once you read it by those who do not know it, because many of our colleagues are already aware of it - of the quintuosity of the concept of urgency. This is an issue that concerns tens of thousands of producers throughout Greece, to thousands of our fellow citizens especially in northern Greece, who are anxiously waiting for the land workers to harvest their production. For them every day counts every hour and so I apologize again, but I think once you read it, you will realize that we must pass it. For our part, the Ministry of Rural Development and Food has provided and been aware of the problem, and we have prepared the relevant provision since the beginning of February. However, it needed unprecedented, close cooperation with the co-legislative Ministries for Civil Protection, Migration and Asylum, Labour and Social Security and Digital Governance. In this cooperation, it was found that the necessary safeguards had to be found, on the one hand, in order not to circumvent the provision in question, as was the case last year, and on the other hand, in order to ensure the avoidance of any case of the introduction of an outbreak of covid. That is why, firstly, an age limit of sixty years has been set to enter our country as a land worker from a third country, secondly, a thirty-day limit for a given job, thirdly, provided accommodation meeting the health and safety requirements, fourthly, that the employer is responsible for each worker and, fifthly, for paying a bachelor's pension. The whole process will be carried out electronically on a platform to which all the relevant and involved bodies will have access, with a view to checking in their area of competence and at any time to ensure proper compliance with a procedure. It should be stressed that the text of the provision was the result of constant cooperation and - frankly - of daily contacts with many farmers, with farmers' representatives, since we share their struggles and their struggles. It was also a product of cooperation - and I would like to say it in this Chamber - with the interim President of the ETHC, Christos Giannakakis, but also with Members from almost all regions, rural from all parties, for the best result. I would like to thank everyone warmly for their cooperation and assistance. Especially asparagus, and because of the immediate need to be harvested, we anticipated the opening of the procedure even before the start of the online platform, which I spoke about just now. We know very well how important it is that the production that has been prepared so hard in the past period should not be lost. Ladies and gentlemen, I would urge you all to vote together on this amendment, as we must, again with the request to accept the urgency of the matter - and therefore the delay - and to send out a message of consensus at these difficult times, to be united in these days. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u149	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u150	Mr Chakalotos, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u151	Mr President, I accept the apologies of the Minister. I'm telling you, honestly. And I was pressed many times and you criticised me and I criticised you in 2012-2015. But it is too late and I think the Bureau should discuss this. It's seven o'clock. We can't see it. I don't know what we're gonna vote for. I don't know if we can study it. I think that everyone, the Bureau together with the government, together with perhaps the General Secretariat of the Government, should now be discussing whether these practices are somewhat reduced as far as possible in the Memorandum. But, Mr President, allow me to comment on the speech by Mr Spanakis, who told us that he was from the south of Athens and that SYRIZA has a great responsibility for what happened in Nea Smyrna. In fact, ladies and gentlemen of the Government and Members of Parliament, I have the following question: What is your picture? Do you have the impression that on Sunday in New Smyrna the good citizens of this region were at home, were they convinced by the channels that nothing happened on Sunday, that some overdogs attacked the police, that some children on the tricycle, on their bike, attacked the police, that nothing happened and their children returned and told their parents "mama, Dad, to tell you what happened, this was attacked by the policemen who had to resist"? Is that what you're waiting for? Is that what you think? And that Tsipras called on Monday morning and told SYRIZA's secretary - the Progressive Alliance of Nea Smyrna "was picking up twenty thousand people and once you collect twenty-five thousand, will you have a bonus" and pick them up? Is that what you think? So, really, this is your sense of reality? Because if that's the sense of the reality you have, you're completely out of line. What happened in New Izmir was an spontaneous reaction of the citizens, who have nothing to do with SYRIZA. Of course, we supported it, but it was the result of the images we have seen. And it was accidental to see them, because there were cell phones. But please, this was SYRIZA's responsibility, what happened on Monday, is really beyond me. And I would say to the Prime Minister this: he would be more convincing that he would not want the division if he had come out on Sunday to denounce and say - anyway - 'it was very bad what happened and we would see how we would fix it' and then go out on Monday and blame the unacceptableness of the police officer, which we denounced. But when you don't do that and you say that the reaction to eating wood by the people of New Izmir must be nothing, you realize there can be no reaction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr Chakaloto.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u153	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u154	Here, Minister, you have the floor. I think this issue has been exhausted since this morning, but in any case, answer it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u155	I am not going to go into the dialogue with Mr Tsakalotos on his second point. After all, I think that tomorrow is a good opportunity for us to have a mature debate of responsible leaders and for everyone on a line to deal with the problems that we have as a society and for us to move forward with a sense of unity and responsibility. I just wanted to apologize once again for tabling the amendment, you are right, we were just running time by hour, minute by minute, so that we could implement it. I hope you have the time to see it, and I'm sure you'll agree, because many of your colleagues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u156	What can we say now? Are we serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u157	Now you weren't here when I made my first speech. He'll tell you, Mr. Chakalotos, don't exterminate yourself! Take a look at this first, speak to Mr Tsakalotos who was here, and speak to many of your Members who have the same struggles and are covered by this amendment, and if you have any objections, we are discussing them again. In the context I have spoken before, I think that when you look at the content, you too will be absolutely in agreement and in general we agree with the rules of good legislature and accept your advice and encouragement. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u158	E-mail us! I came down to see her on paper.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u159	Well in theory, all right, the amendments must not now come quickly, but now this amendment - to tell you - always has the urgency, it has also been in the past. I remind you of the Manola strawberries, I remind you of the beans in northern Greece. This is happening, and in any case, there are still about two hours before us to make any comments and I believe that the Minister, Mr Lebanese, and with his modesty and shown, will be able to make possible legislative improvements if you suggest. Here, Mr. Constantinidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u160	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, for some time now, the Civic Opposition - and not alone - has been trying to hitting the government by selecting polarisation and rivalry with the challenge of an enthusiasm for a society which is pressed by the restrictive measures of pandemic, by invoking attitudes that are very much in favour of plans of state arbitrariness and repression, in order to stimulate the democratic feelings of citizens, by trying to convince the world that law and order are against its interests and its freedoms and that, in fact, these reactions of indignation and violent conflicts are being defended, and the very opposite is true. We will not, however, drift into traps with no meaning. It is the work of the law and its enforcer to say who did and why, it is the work of the independent powers, the authorities and the institutions. They will say whether or not we have exceeded the limits, if we are misused, if we have an attempted homicide, they are legal or not. Of course, if anyone wants to propose to the citizens the legalisation of conquests, but not to take back the occupants. It may be recommended that there should be no police at the highways, but not mocking the assholes. It may - if he wants - change the framework for the construction of barbers, but not collide with their blackmail demands. It may propose that restrictive measures should be abolished due to the pandemic, but not to encourage citizens to violate them. Whoever, by such methods, is working on destabilization plans is being destabilized is being demolished. We in New Democracy are not with some to others. We're with all the social groups without getting into artificial divisions. That is why we are fighting for all our fellow citizens, trying to form an institutional framework that responds to today's needs and prepares the country for the next day. That is exactly what the draft law under discussion does. In part I he introduces to ratification the decision on change in the system of European Union funds, as each member has to do, in accordance with his constitutional forecasts. Everyone realises that the enormous impact of the pandemic has forced the European Union to take drastic and rugged measures to support national budgets, of course, while continuing its sectoral policies. A loan plan of EUR 750 billion was thus agreed, of which EUR 360 billion is intended for loans and EUR 390 billion for expenditure. However, we must not forget that this is the money that the European Union will pay back, and that is why it is necessary to revise the own resources ceilings. For this same purpose, a new separate resource is introduced, according to the quantities of recycled plastics and waste produced by each country, which will also encourage the cyclical economy. Let us remember here, of course, the recent legislative initiative by the then Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Hatzidakis, on the reduction of disposable plastics. It is therefore obvious that the importance of this procedure for the activation of the funds for the Recovery and Resilience Fund, that is to say, practical funding aimed at supporting our fellow citizens and relaunching the economy. I have not stopped the last time to note the importance of the reforms that we have voted on so that the country is ready to absorb the EUR 72 billion budget and, indeed, to sustainable development, mobilising domestic and foreign investments. There has been a really great effort, a work has been done, but this will prove lame without the resolution of the banks. And that is not so important for the financially sound ones, of whom the funding has never been missing. It is primarily for those small and medium-sized enterprises in need, but they do not have access to borrowing. Today, when the country has regained credibility, the banking system reform cannot wait, especially now that it will have to give the real economy the huge resources intended for Greece. If, therefore, the banks' portfolios do not clear ‘red’ loans, their growth role will not be restored. In addition, the framework needs to be established so that private capital can gradually succeed in participating in the systemic banks. The above issues are facilitated by the arrangements of Part II for the operation of the Financial Stability Fund. With regard to the objections of opposition to so-called immunity to members of the Financial Stability Fund, I think that the debate has been exhausted and they are, in fact, unfounded. Finally, allow me one final comment. Of course, Mr. Tsakalotos left, but in his position formerly renounced the sole responsibility of SYRIZA for the "Biblican" destruction of the banking system in 2015, he wondered "Ma, well Adam was Tsipras?" meaning, of course, that the banks carried weights from the past. But, if he were here, I would say to him "Mr. Chakaloto, Mr. Tsipras alone was presented as a first-purpose, when they promised the citizens “left” paradise after the denial of the memorials." However, if Adam is not responsible, then we need to look for the damn "hoof" that lured him. Finally, the arrangements in the draft law are necessary and useful, and that is why we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u161	I, too, thank you, Mr Constantinidis, for keeping time. Now we're entering the chatter circle through Webex. The first speaker is Mr Anastasiades from New Democracy. Here, Mr Anastasiades, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is well known that, for about a year now, the whole planet, like our country of course, has been tested by the biggest health crisis in the past 100 years. Progress on the vaccination front and implementation of measures opens the way out of the crisis. The government from the first moment, taking care of public health, has stood next to society and the economy. The same goes on with the measures announced today in support of households, businesses and workers. With regard to the intensity and polarization that has been taking place in recent years, we must say that our space, our prolongation, the New Democracy, the government have never invested in violence and chaos. Others are investing in violence and squares, calling for their youth to participate in it, and they will have to consider their responsibilities once and for all and take their responsibilities calmly. I now come to the bill that we are discussing and contains very critical provisions which have to do with both the process and the support of the economy and the sound functioning of the banking system. Today we are ratifying the 'EURATOM' decision which is part of the agreement reached at the July 2020 European Council on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027, the decision on the European Union's new own resources system adopted by the European Council in December 2020 and the establishment of the Recovery Fund. The same law amends and complements Law 3864/2010 on the operation of the Financial Stability Fund. In particular, the method of financing the European Union budget is being reviewed. The committee is given the opportunity for the first time to borrow funds from the markets so that it can immediately raise large sums to strengthen national budgets even more. In particular, in order to ensure the necessary additional and large scale financial resources, the Committee is authorised to borrow exceptionally on behalf of the Union only in order to address the consequences of the pandemic crisis. Another essential element provided for in the new law is the permanent increase in own resources, and the maximum of these is redefined. There is a permanent increase in own resources so that there is always sufficient funding. A uniform rate of 0.30% is applied for all Member States to the total amount of VAT revenue, and it is increased from 1 March 2021 to the end of 2027 to 25%, as has been the case so far, the percentage retained by Member States as revenue from traditional own resources, mainly customs duties on products from third countries. At the same time, a new special tax on unrecycled plastic packaging is introduced to encourage the reduction of pollution from plastic waste and recycling. Greece through the Recovery Fund, as well as the Multiannual Support Framework, is expected to benefit from its contributions to the European Union budget. The EUR 72 billion that our country is planning to draw from the Development Fund and the Multiannual Financial Framework in the years to come will give a significant boost to the Greek economy. Many sectors of the economy, such as the single market, research, innovation, economic and social cohesion, environmental protection, migration and security, will be strengthened. Part II of the draft law amended Law No.3864/2010 governing the operation of the Financial Stability Fund in order to allow the participation of the latter in non-secured future capital increases, i.e. capital increases that do not have the character of capital support to cover capital deficits or resolution. The proposed provisions aim to allow the Financial Stability Fund to participate on conditions of participation in capital increases alongside the own resources that a private investor may have. In other words, the possibility for the Financial Stability Fund to participate in capital increases, such as a private investor seeking profits from its investment, is allowed. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating enables our country to take an important step towards getting out of the pandemic crisis. That is the possibility we all have to support today. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u163	Thank you too, Mr Anastasiades, particularly for keeping time. Mr Theodoros Karaoglu has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, starting with my position, I would like to remind the House that the main qualification of every responsible government is to provide security for its citizens. And when we say security, we mean all issues, such as national issues, economic issues, public order issues, and other areas of social life. The Government of the New Democracy and Mr.Mitsotakis has shown that he is going on the basis of this principle, since the first moment the pandemic that has been afflicting the whole world has been arousing the way, a sure path to the safe transition to the post-Koronian era. We said, and we observed it in practice, that the priority of health must go hand in hand with the shielding of the economy. So in the context of this morning we heard the Prime Minister of the country announcing a new stimulus of the affected, proving in fact that the government knows and can follow the requirements of the situation, but also the needs of society. In short, I quote these measures: First, in April the seventh financial cycle of the repayable advance for companies that had reduced turnover in the quarter of January to March is inaugurated. The new cycle will be widened, as it includes all those affected, such as retailing, focusing, but also sectors where restrictions have been applied. The second measure is the following: 30% exemption up to 50% of the repayment of the repayment of the advance. It will also apply to those who had joined its first three cycles and had a significant drop in turnover in 2020. The third measure is to extend the repayment periods of the repayable advance, which means, in practical terms, that all repayment instalments are increasing from forty to sixty. The fourth measure is that the State will grant a substantial part of the fixed costs incurred by businesses starting from 2020 and not covered by other aid. This is how we protect jobs since the arrangement will take the form of credit for future tax and insurance obligations. A fifth measure is that the GFCF programme for the adjustment of loans will for the first time include interest and capital. In the information loans, the aid will reach up to 90% of the dose, thereby rewarding them consistently, while the'red' loans are up to 80%, as long as they are adjusted. Finally, the sixth measure is that the suspension of the regulated tax obligations is extended. In other words, the dose of regulated corporate tax obligations directly affected is transferred at the end of the regulatory period. Contrary to what the voices of misery wanted, the economy endured. Greece has endured and is ready, ladies and gentlemen, to take safe steps forward. We have retained unemployment, having the second best performance in Europe. We reduced the recession to 8.2%, when some anticipated that the recession would be double-digit and over 10%. Today we are taking another decisive step to keep the world of production up. Today's statements by the Prime Minister are directly linked to the bill of the Ministry of Finance which we are discussing today. In essence, we have to vote for a vote of confidence in an important tool that will provide full support for our national economy, but also for the healthy operation of the banking system. Saying yes to the bill, we ensure the proper development of the European Union's policies, in this respect to address the consequences of the pandemic, confirming our absolute faith in the principles of transparency and equal treatment that govern the great European family to which we belong. In the first part of the bill, it is clear that for the first time the committee will be able to borrow from the markets so that it can raise funds directly on a large scale so that it can strengthen national budgets even more. This is a necessary prerequisite for the activation of the recovery fund's resources, and we are signalling a fundamental review of how the European Union's budget is financed. This is how we unlock the potential of European funds and create a safety net to avoid further pressure on national budgets. In the second part of the draft, concerning the Financial Stability Fund and banks, the possibility is essentially and effectively to support the banking system with private capital. Ladies and gentlemen, this is a very important development since it is our response to the economic and social consequences of the pandemic. We are therefore at the point where we are called upon to take advantage of the benefits we have claimed and ensured at the June 2020 summit. The EUR 32 billion that will be invading our country through the Recovery Fund will give a significant boost to the economic development field and through their proper and planned exploitation will be a golden opportunity to make progress. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing today Greece is facing a great challenge. The way European funds are managed will determine our course in the future, which must be based on four priorities: the 'green' economy, digital transformation, employment and social cohesion, and, finally, private investment. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The commitment of Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group as a whole is clear: the resources will be allocated and invested in areas that Greece is currently lagging behind. Specifically, the improvement of digital skills will help catalyst the growth of the Gross Domestic Product, while taking advantage of the green economy will create new jobs and better environmental protection conditions. So since all the members of the National Representation claim that the proper exploitation of 32 billion euros will send a strong signal to Europe that Greece is changing for the better, I urge you all to vote in favour of the bill. Our homeland ceases to be a poor relative and is considered an equal partner. It proceeds with a plan, with a programme, with flexibility and achieves measurable targets. If this is the Greece that you see, you vote yes to the Treasury bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u165	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Dimitrios Biagi from the Change Movement. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u166	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the country is in an unprecedented, unprecedented special economic treaty. Every form of financial assistance and provision is absolutely valuable and particularly important. Our banking system and the real economy need immediate support and support in order to resurrect and resurrect. It would be highly irresponsible for me to come to this bill today, trying to make a sterile and cheap opposition to a decision adopted by the Council of the European Union by written procedure on 14 December 2020 and published in the Official Journal of the European Union on 15 December 2020, on which the Council, acting by a special legislative procedure, unanimously and after consulting the European Parliament, adopted a decision setting out the provisions governing the Union's own resources system. The new own resources decision is part of the historic agreement reached at the European Council in July 2020 concerning the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027 for the establishment of the Recovery Fund. It is an agreement that marks the deep revision of the method of financing the Union budget, as it allows the committee to lend funds from the capital markets to ensure immediate and large-scale financial capacity for measures to support the recovery of the tolerance of the European economy. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, as regards the part of the draft law on the Financial Stability Fund, the rapporteur of the Change Movement, Mr Loverdes, has also expressed to you in committee and in plenary today, in our satisfaction that the Financial Stability Fund will now act as an investor. It will not only intervene to exalt, it will not only intervene to stabilise, but it will also make an investment effort. Flexibility to the Financial Stability Fund is also appreciated positively. It will be able to eliminate its participation if an increase is made and reserved. In other words, it will be able to participate in the distribution of indisposed shares or other assets resulting from the growth process. Ladies and gentlemen, today's ratification and the increase in own resources to deepen Europe's economic and monetary union and, in general, the possibility of borrowing are undoubtedly positive measures. I would also like to stress, however, that if we really want the country to come out of this economic, social and political deadlock, we have nothing but to engage in a substantial dialogue with all productive and social forces. The victims of the pandemic worldwide may now be approached by the three million. The victims, however, of the economic consequences of this unprecedented crisis will, unfortunately, be multiples, at a level that we are not yet able to approach. You must first of all - and all of us of course - listen to society at last, bend over the real problems and understand that there are people, families and obligations every day behind the numbers. Every day he passes, the bill rises. People live under suffocating pressure. There are groups of our fellow people who have forgotten about a year ago that is pandemic. They're workers who haven't even taken that grief aid so they can live. Minister of Government, we're talking about tour guides. We are talking, Minister of Government, about guides to tourist buses. We are talking, Minister of Government, about the workers at the tourist offices. We are talking, Minister of Government, about workers in duty-free shops, airports and ports. Minister, we will need these groups to take the lead tomorrow in opening up tourism. You as a government have not yet succeeded in overcoming the skeptic of the seasonality of the companies that are working so that they too can receive the minimum, the unemployment benefit. You announced the opening of tourism on May 16, without at the same time ensuring that you keep all those who will be summoned at that time, at that time, to regain the weight of tourism on their backs. With tourist slogans and open announcements we do not give hope and perspective to these people, who are the cornerstone of our tourism industry. He needs care and interest. Today, in comparative advantages, you have not even managed to safeguard the spread of pandemic in our islands. We have not succeeded in making it an advantage and not a disadvantage. Nor do we see any measures above and beyond the horizon, as if we were actually dismantling national advantages that we are unable to exploit. We must therefore look at things in the face and essential needs, because the work is deeply affected. Telework becomes a dominant form of work in any small, small and medium-sized and large enterprise, dramatically reducing the jobs of workers. Unemployment is growing, recession is growing and I fear that when we leave this quarantine of health we will experience another quarantine of the real economy. Gentlemen, if we do not listen now to the social partners, if we do not take measures now, the account will indeed be heavy and unresolved. Mr Ministers, on the occasion of today's bill, it would be very useful to launch a debate on the plan that you tabled to make use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. At this point I would just like to say to you that there must be a directly prepared text, with qualitative and quantitative objectives, with timetables and real allocations, with minimal specialisation, not this draft, the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which saw the light of consultation and which could be described as a report of ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, the country really needs support. The consequences of the pandemic are now unscrupulous and unbearable. Such decisions are imposed at European Union level which are of interest to us. However, we also need proper and good management at national level in order to be acceptable and fruitful and these decisions of the European Union. The Change Movement, over time as a supporter and supporter of the European family, as a member of the family of European socialists, cannot undermine a sanction that is friendly to Greece and its interests. But we want to see from you a national plan for the management of crisis and pandemic, and the next day, which is not based on dry calculations and surface designs, but on a drafted action plan, with realistic and practicable objectives, which will give breath and breath to the domestic economy, focusing on human needs and, in general, on human needs and its presence in a society that is visible, with values and human beings. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u167	Mr President, I would like the floor for a legal improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u168	Yes, Minister, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Mr President. It's a legal thing. Just the validity of the articles, that is, of the Parts, becomes "Part II, III and IV", because Part IV has been incorporated. It's just a legal thing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u170	Mr Emmanuel Konsolas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u171	Good evening, Mr. President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the truth is that at this time a very important bill, a very important framework for the ratification of a European Union decision, the Council of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335 of the European Union, gave colleagues from all sides of this House the opportunity to express themselves on topical and political issues that concern Greek society. However, Mr President, let me stress from my introduction that the rhetoric of hatred, division and anti-social behaviour produce violence and undermine the collective effort to control and deal with pandemic. In addition, we find that they poison public life at a juncture that requires understanding and national unity. That is why I think and believe that accountability and the right reason should be taken of this very time-consuming situation. This is the responsibility of all our political forces, all of us, who will be judged by the citizens as they must be. The plan that we are debating today is linked to the next day, and Mr Stakoras very well in his position stressed these issues that are related to the next day, in relation to what we are discussing today. It is linked to returning to normality, growth and economic and social progress. The ratification of Council Decision 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of own resources is the product of a historic agreement reached at the European Council in July 2020 on the multiannual financial framework 2021-2027. The Recovery Fund was established at this summit, which is one of the driving levers of restarting the development process and the transition to the next day. In fact, the decision we have to ratify today is linked to a wide range of changes in the way the Community budget is financed. For the first time, the Commission is able to borrow its own funds as a supranational body and an autonomous entity from international markets. It is the funds that will be used to relaunch and recover the European economy, and will be made available through the Recovery Fund. It is therefore a question of funds which will also be used for the Greek economy, as well as the possibility of absorbing the Recovery Fund. This Decision provides for a permanent increase in own resources ceilings to 1,40% and 1,46% of the European Union's gross national income to cover payment appropriations and commitments respectively in the Community budget. In other words, the possibility of financing economic support measures with European resources and resources from the Recovery Fund is in fact provided, without emphasising, Mr President, the state budget being borne to the fullest extent. The Community budget for the period 2021-2027 amounts to EUR 1 trillion 74 billion. Greece will have at its disposal EUR 72 billion. It is the largest financial package that has ever been received and the use of these resources to transform the development model of our national economy, which must stop relying solely on services, is a national objective. It is very important to strengthen other productive activities in the country. Investments and initiatives which have as a reference the green economy, the development of new tourist products, digital transformation and innovation should therefore be financed. We are currently in the process of awaiting final approval for the Greek proposals on the use of the recovery fund. It is also necessary to ratify this Agreement. When approval is given, Greece will immediately be able to use funds of 4 billion in the second half of 2021, which can be allocated to areas that I mentioned before and at the same time to the creation of new infrastructure. I believe that one of the projects to be proposed for funding, Minister, is the electrical interconnection of the islands with the mainland network. Minister, I am well aware of how much you know about the island area and I am sure you will also adopt this proposal for the electrical interconnection of the Dodecanese with the mainland network. It is a leading infrastructure project with a budget of 1.5 billion euros, which can be linked to investments in renewable energy sources. In the second part of the bill, arrangements for changing the provisions of Law 3864/2010 relating to the operation of the Financial Stability Fund have been included. With the institutional framework currently in force, the Fund was not able to participate in the capital increase of a credit institution to which it is already a shareholder, unless this increase was required for supervisory reasons. In this way, the investments of the Financial Stability Fund in the Greek banking system are essentially ensured. In this way it will be able to obtain revenue and profits from a future increase in stock exchange values. I am taking this opportunity, Mr Minister, to raise the question of the restructuring and regulation of the loans of cooperative banks, such as the Dodecanese Bank. Minister, it is neither rational nor fair to treat the borrowers of the Dodecanese Cooperative Bank with more unfavourable rules in relation to the treatment of borrowers of systemic banks. The liquidator cannot ask for repayment of the loan over eight years, when the relevant time margin given by the systemic banks is twenty years. It is a distortion, but, above all, it is an unequal treatment that needs to be restored. And I would like to ask you to see and look at the possibilities of correcting this pathogen that concerns both the local community and, more generally, the people of the market. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u172	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. George Loyadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Today's draft law came to the House without public consultation as it should have been, and like Law No 4622/2019, the Gerapetritis law which the New Democracy has legislated, defines, within a climate of these moments of tension and violence to divide and disorient the world from poverty, indulgence, all these sufferings that we are currently experiencing. This draft law concerns not only Greece, but also all Europe. It is about all of Europe because it must be ratified by all the parliaments of the Member States of the European Union on the basis of the unanimity in force in the European Treaties. And this is where the strength of each Member State - Member State of the European Union is, large or small within the Community - lies. No European citizen is pleased today with how the European Union has evolved. We see the lanes open everywhere, the very few rich to become far richer and the very many poorer. Inequality is to the greatest extent. Today we see centrifugal forces, such as the 'Brexit', or the alalum of dealing with a common enemy, the pandemic. This will continue as long as there is no real democratic deepening of the European Union with substantial convergence and with the Eurobond and not with the Recovery Fund, which is effectively disoriented by this objective. Because the debt now created by pandemic rather than being allocated to all European citizens together - which would have been done through policies and procedures for automated redistribution of debt if we had the Eurobond and not after the banquets and extortion, as was now the case with the creation of the Recovery Fund, but which ultimately buried the creation of the Eurobond - now the pandemic debt is borne by each Member State, for Greece, by the Greek debt, for Italy, for Germany, the German and so forth. I am shaking about what will happen when the economy is normally opened up with debts, loans, unemployment, poverty and impoverishment. The Fifth Memorandum will now be here and every new memorandum will be much more difficult than the previous one, because it will have taken precedence over everything else. I would like to stress that consultations of this nature on the creation of a genuine Eurobond and on the political democratic depth of the European Union are not conducted either in the Greek Parliament or among the Member States of the European Union. Objection? As Mera25, we are asking for the 2010 bankruptcy file to be opened and for the finding requested and made by Draghi as President of the European Central Bank to be made public as to whether the closure of the Greek banks in 2015 was lawful. For ‘grek statistics’ and for ELSTAT’s methods, I would mention that it is the only statistical agency that in 2020 revised Greek GDP downwards for over EUR 4 billion back by 2010 to show clearly that the 2020 recession is less than the actual one as if GDP was an elevator. I am not going to talk about the banks and business as real. Follow the money says the Americans to understand what has happened. I will conclude by saying that recently the former President of the Commission, Jean-Claude Junger, said, and I read from News on 27-28 February 2021, that 'Some of us - governments, public opinion - did not respect the dignity of the Greeks'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u174	Thank you. Mr. Bukouros has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. It is of considerable interest today's bill. Despite the fact that it seems only to be a matter of harmonisation in Brussels's bureaucratic procedures, it is not so since today we are ratifying the historic agreement of the European Union Summit of 20 July 2020, but also other decisions at European level to establish the European Union's own resources. The fact that today that historic agreement by the leaders of the European Union is becoming a state law strengthens the European idea because it comes to prove that Europe is difficult to reach even after a long period of negotiation, even after disagreement, if you wish, and from different approaches between the European states. At the end of the day, however, Minister, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, Europe is precisely the political body which, if you wish, operates with mutual compromises, with concessions and which ultimately lead to certain agreements which are useful to the people of Europe. Such an agreement is also the one that we are ratifying today and which enables the European Commission to borrow from the hard markets to deal with the consequences of the pandemic. One would lie if one were to say that it does not want a Europe that is more brave, faster, more effective and more effective when the European people see the United States, for example, last night, announcing a $1.9 trillion package to deal with the consequences of the crisis. But we know that the European Union is a more householded body, let me be allowed to speak, and more conservative. Besides, the more you borrow, the more you owe. As a first step, it is not a first step that resources are provided to deal with the consequences of the pandemic crisis in the European economy. It is that the first step is taken, it opens up a road so that difficult circumstances, following the agreement of the European leaders and on behalf of the European peoples, can make such a catch-up in order to deal with possible future difficulties. So I would say that it strengthens the European idea of voting this bill. The European Union with the 750 billion of whom will be drawn from the markets - we have also heard Mr Jediloney, the European Union's Economic Affairs Commissioner point it out in his statements yesterday - is actually making decisions. Our country, with the EUR 32 billion from this package, most of which - around EUR 19 billion - will be direct aid, direct funding, aspiring to leave behind the rest of the economic crisis and, above all, to leave behind the effects of pandemic on the economy and society. Greece will be strengthened in many areas of the single market: In research, innovation, economic and social cohesion, in sectors that are strategically important for our country. If these 32 billion euros are added to the multiannual funding framework for the current programming period, we are exceeding EUR 72 billion if my memory is not cheating on me. In order to make all this, however, useful tools and make the most of the resources, there is a need for preparation. And the country has made this preparation. It has made its proposals to the European Commission. We are voting today on the bill. We voted the other day on the bill on public procurement, which is a very useful tool for absorbing European funds and for co-financed projects. And I will not go into the Financial Stability Fund at all, because for many years the Greek economy has been living in a banking system. We know what political responsibilities are for the collapse of banks and for the elimination of their capitalisation. It is not my intention, however, to stand up to the opposition or part of it. However, the economy lived with a banking system. So we come today with Part II of the bill to give credit to the European Commission for the right of the CFSF as an investor to the extent of its participation in the Greek banking system. We hope, after the vote on the bill, that the Greek banks finally perform their role in full, which is no more than the financing of the real economy. So I said earlier that in order to make use of these resources by 2026, which are very important resources for Greece - we are talking about EUR 72 billion - there must be preparation. The preparation is done and I referred to the bills that have been voted on. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] But there must also be social and economic peace. There's got to be a stiff inside front. While Greece, our country, is threatened by the wider geopolitical developments, while we do not live in the best neighborhood in the world, while confronting the serious consequences of the pandemic, all political forces must be lifted to the extent of the circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u176	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President. The objective observers, the Greek citizens, who want to see a better situation both in the economy and society as a whole, judge us all rigorously. For temporary political benefits or for the sake of exiting from a political closeness experienced by certain political forces, it is unacceptable to strengthen the social climate and social peace, in fact in the context of a pandemic crisis. I think the Greek people find it extremely strict. After the Prime Minister's early announcements to strengthen the real economy and five hundred thousand businesses, following the achievement of the government and the financial staff - and to congratulate the Minister of Finance on this point - where the recession ultimately disproved the estimates of counter-population, but above all to disprove the European Union's estimates and finally move to 8.2%, if we are going through the last mile of the pandemic, we will, in fact, be able to all together and, above all, the Greek people to look forward to the future with greater optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u178	Please, Mr. Kourublis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u179	Mr President, following the revealing statements by the Director of the "Evangelism" SC, Mrs Cotanidou, we are now entitled to know what is said and what is being discussed in the famous Committee of Experts. It is a matter of life for all of us and the minutes of this committee cannot be kept as a seven-sealed secret. The government has no right to pursue this foreign policy. Mr President, at a very critical time when the pressure that the Greek people are under is really a dangerous silica, it comes in a sense of self-sufficient and self-centered and in a way of being put to its political opponents. In the morning I heard the rapporteur, Mr New Democracy, addressing him in a really insulting style to Civic Opposition. So since the New Democracy considers that it can work with selective memory, since it considers it to have come down from virginity, I would fully agree with the proposal of our Parliamentary Representative, and also the KINAL Parliamentary Representative, to go to a committee of inquiry from 2000 until today, to see who went bankrupt the country, to see who took the sanctuary money from the insurance funds and where they turned that money from, that is to say, where they bought the bonds. From the primary or secondary market? Because that's where the big crime has been committed, and no one's talking. I have then tabled a complaint, ladies and gentlemen, which has unfortunately been suspended following the adoption of Article 390 in the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill that actually has an important effort in its first article, after years, to increase own resources. And we are of them, as are all the progressive parties in Europe, who are pushing Europe to increase the same resources. The central government of America cannot have 20% of the gross income of states and Europe 1% and something. And because it has been said - and rightly so - that by putting 1 euro in Greece won no more than 3,9 euros so far, but with this 4,6 euro increase, the question arises to the people's New Democracy: Since the People's Party does not support, because of Germany and the Nordic countries, the increase of own resources, what is its position when we all know that small Greece and the small countries of the South have to gain from the increase in own resources? We therefore support the taxation of financial transactions, Mr President, the taxation of large digital giants, in this case we support taxation in the countries that source the wealth of multinationals. We support, Mr President, finally opening up a debate on the issue of the use of the various personal data platforms. It is a superpower that must not just be taxed in the common way of taxation, but it must be an important part of this wealth to return back to the people from whom it comes. In Article 1, too, there is the arrangement for the Recovery Fund. Mr President, how excessive is it when we ask for the proposal put forward by the Government in the European Union? To be submitted, as it has been tabled to the European Commission and on the basis of this proposal, to discuss all parties. And to discuss something very important, Mr President. The new digital development, new technologies, artificial intelligence, which will bring great flooding over industrial relations, is coming. Should we not therefore discuss how to protect the new working environment by using new technologies and artificial intelligence? Should we not decide who will pay for the training and retraining of workers so that they do not lose their jobs? Ladies and gentlemen, as many scientists say, we are entering the post-human era immediately. The question that will be raised immediately is who defines the operating conditions of artificial intelligence? Will the states be? Will they be the privates? These are major issues that we need to discuss in the Greek Parliament. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Part II of the bill refers to the famous Financial Fund. It's a painful story. However, because he is now coming to Parliament, we must discuss his administration. It would be useful for the Minister to tell us what the costs and fees of his board of directors are. It's useful for the Greek people to know, because he's the one who pays. The second thing we need to know is how...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u181	I'm closing, Mr. President. How can it not be proportionate to represent on the fund board representatives, i.e. according to its involvement in the banks? Ladies and gentlemen, the Prime Minister yesterday made a motion and said he was the Prime Minister of all Greeks. That's it. It's all right. But when the Prime Minister refers to an incident which we all condemn, he is not a guardian of the police, New Democracy and the Right, Mr President. Because he must know that the police from 1981 until today if he saw her on a white day, he saw her from democratic governments. It's nobody's instrument. The police are children of the Greek people and must observe the oath they have given to the Constitution and the Hellenic Republic. That is why I believe that there must be another spirit than the style of the people of the government. The government wants a subordinate society, "slay me, all my things, to sanctify." Well, that can't be done. It will not happen, for precisely the Greek people have dignity and will defend their dignity. That is what I wanted to do, Mr President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too. Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the two thousand five hundred and seventy new coronary cases today, while the country is in 'accord' conditions almost seventeen weeks, are the greatest proof of failure to control the pandemic on the part of the government, a failure costing multiples in the country and, unfortunately, I fear that it still has not revealed the depth of the social and economic crisis that is going to leave behind it. Already a recession is recorded that touches a two-digit figure for 2020, with negative estimates for 2021. At the same time, the increase in citizens' tax debts came to EUR 108 billion and to the insurance funds to EUR 35 billion. Small and medium-sized enterprises, particularly retail trade and focus, are, in fact, falling apart. Recently - I will mention for my region - the Komotini Trade Association has tabled a documented proposal that has referred to the current reality of the market, to support small and medium-sized enterprises, in order to help them and to be able to survive the covid crisis. I have already tabled a proposal for parliamentary scrutiny, and I would also like to repeat here, Mr President, that the Government must immediately take all the necessary measures to save trade and small and medium-sized enterprises, which are now on the limit of their survival. We are not at risk when we warn you of thousands of padlocks and mass unemployment, which we will find in front of us when the economy opens. We warn you about the reality that comes. After September, in other words, the country will be facing the biggest catastrophic scenario for the economy. And we warn you, because for us it is clear that for the effective treatment of the coronary pandemic, other policies are needed, which, unfortunately, conflict with your ideological core. These are policies which you do not believe and which is why you are constantly making spasm moves, but which reveal your real objectives. It is characteristic that you have chosen to give more support to the large and strong and not to small and medium-sized enterprises. It is indicative that eighty-five thousand eighty-nine companies have taken EUR 5.3 billion, while only four hundred and fifty thousand small businesses have only received EUR 2.2 billion, that is, much less than half of the repayable advance. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, today we are discussing a bill which at least one of its concerns the increase in the European Union's own resources, which is a positive development which, for many years, has been supported by the party to which I belong in every way, in the logic of the political and economic depth of Europe. Obviously, Europe has a long way to go towards further political and economic integration. Greece, however, has many economic and geopolitical reasons to push by every means in this direction. And that must be coordinated. This increase in budgetary resources and the temporary and exceptional lending capacity are undoubtedly welcome measures and the benefits for the Greek economy are very important. It is also obvious that a part of the increase in the European Union's own resources has arisen both because of pandemic and because of the consequences of pandemic. That is why, somewhere here, we must honestly open up the dialogue on the plan you have put forward for the use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. Because to date, what we have in our hands and has been consulted by the government is a generic text. It does not mention quantitative objectives. It does not contain timelines. Mostly, it does not describe the actual allocations. It is well known, after the strong criticism of the President of the Change Movement, that the European Commission has another text in its hands, ladies and gentlemen, which, unfortunately, you refuse to discuss openly. What for? Do you think that society and Parliament should not be involved in a dialogue to make use of the resources of EUR 32 billion of the Recovery Fund? Is there a plan for exploiting these resources in the region? Who are you going to choose? With whom do you discuss the needs and specificities of a serious reconstruction plan for the Greek region? For example, the Opsa River dam in the Rhodope Regional Unit will irrigate three hundred thousand acres in the Rhodope plain and along with distribution networks, the cost will be EUR 250 million. I would remind you that there is a ready study, and at the same time, the cost of the five thousand drillings from which Rodopi is currently being irrigated by equipment exceeds EUR 150 million and, at the same time, of salt waters which, from now on, will destroy production. It should be noted that the Afsitatos dam will not depend on the waters of Bulgaria, as it will be a Greek-water management dam only. I propose that this work, Mr President, be called a project of national strategic importance. Why should it be called a project of national strategic importance? Because, together with the completion of the distribution networks of the Lissos dam, they will be the pillars on which the rural development of Thrace will be based. It is a project that could well join the Recovery Fund. We, therefore, can today vote for the increase in our own resources to be paid by our country to the European Union, but at the same time we call on the government to start, immediately, tomorrow, a real dialogue with all the productive and social forces to make use of the resources of the Recovery Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u184	We shall continue with Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides and we shall conclude the procedure with Mr Ioannis Paschalides. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis, on the occasion of the news, said that he would not allow anyone to divide us. I do not know whether this means, in practice, positions such as some of the Members of the New Democracy, among them lately, Mr Spankee. I will not dwell at all on the events of Nea Smyrni nor on the demonstration of power that took place today during the unnecessarily evacuation of the Aristotle University in Thessaloniki. Mr President, I would like to say that the silence so far has been deafened by the new Republic and Mr Mitsotakis in the vulgar and divisive announcement of the Association of Special Guards of Crete. In this announcement, the Association of Special Guards of Crete nor more or less accuses the Chief of Official Representation and MPs of SYRIZA of ordering blood and covering terrorists and murderers. From the first approaches and special guards to me it seems that this communication does not express the whole of this House. However, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is at least a shame on the democratic morality of such announcements, such as the Association of Special Guards of Crete, that people who write and sign such statements of hatred should not be called upon by the prosecutor to account. It is a matter of democracy that these voices of hatred are isolated and condemned in the most powerful and clear way. And as long as this is not done on the side of the New Democracy and Mr Mitsotakis, in my opinion, Mr Mitsotakis allows himself to divide and, of course, takes the political responsibility for this division. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to refer to Part II of the bill, which, as has rightly been said, is an independent bill in which we have expressed our opposition. The government's basic intention is clearly reflected in the bill. It is an attempt to impose the disinvestment strategy of the Financial Stability Fund - I shall call it a follow-up to my speech just a fund - that is, to strip the fund from the active role of protecting the public interest and its functioning as a private investor in the model of a private body, with purely private social criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, this strategy for the deinvestment and withdrawal of the public sector, which is also expressed in this bill, also conceals an entire political philosophy and ideology, by pursuing the operation of the entire public sector on the basis of private economic criteria. In other words, it is the government's wider strategy to withdraw the public from neo-algal sectors, from health, from the insurance sector and today from the banking sector. We are not blaming you, therefore, gentlemen of the New Democracy, because you do not have a strategy. You have, as your rapporteur said, starting the sitting today. We blame you for this strategy. In this strategy you have disagreed with. Ladies and gentlemen, from my home place, from Vianno, which is the southern part of Crete - and Greece, by extension - to Evros, across Greece, Piraeus Bank closed down a number of stores. What answered us through the Ministry of Finance Financial Policy Directorate for our parliamentary control? That the stores network is formed within the framework of the bank's strategic planning. What does that mean? It means quite simply that local communities throughout Greece - in Greek rural areas, above all - are the premise of decisions, without the possibility of intervention. And not only that, but neither does the public have a basic way of intervening, changing or even shaping, or even in the micro-scale of the Bank's strategic planning to benefit local communities. The government treats countryside as an obstacle to the profits of a particular portion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In our view, the financial system must be equipped with new tools and institutions. This includes, in our view, the Development Bank was a first major step. But, of course, beyond its continued support, a parallel system of new financial institutions is also needed. I am referring to investment and cooperative banks, I am referring to savings banks, I am referring to special purpose investment funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u187	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in my opinion, at a time when the resumption of the auctions is being hampered, where private debt is being increased by the new debt created by government indifference for them, the bill and the financial system that it deletes does not have our consent, because it does not respond to the real needs of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too. We are finishing with Mr. Ioannis Paschalidis. Here you go, Mr. Pashalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u189	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the first article of this Legislation, Council Decision 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union's own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335 EURATOM, which lays down the provisions governing the Union's own resources system. The health crisis has hit Member States' economies very strongly, demonstrating that financial resources are needed on an extremely large scale, as well as Union-wide emergency measures to deal with the consequences of the covid crisis and to support the recovery and resilience of Member States' economies. For this reason, the new Decision exceptionally authorises the Commission to borrow a provisional amount of 750 billion at 2018 prices from the markets on behalf of the Union. Of this amount, EUR 362 billion from the funds will be used to provide loans and up to EUR 390 billion will be used for both costs solely for the purpose of dealing with the consequences of the COVID crisis -19. The decision, therefore, that is now being ratified, achieves the reform of the own resources system and introduces new own resources, with a view to better alignment of the Union's financial instruments. In particular, a new resource is introduced based on non-recycled waste, plastic packaging, produced in each Member State - and not recycled. This resource is ecological in nature, encourages pollution reduction and recycling, while it is fair, taking into account the level of income of each Member State. The second part of the draft law under discussion, namely Articles 2 to 8, refers to the Financial Stability Fund established to support financial stability by means of recapitalisations with resources from the loans contracts concluded by the Hellenic Republic in 2010-2015. The Financial Stability Fund was established in 2010, firstly, to ensure the stability of the banking system and, secondly, to contribute to the growth of the Greek economy, always having as the ultimate objective the disinvestment of equity banks. The proposed changes to the law therefore mainly concern the fund's framework and disinvestment strategy. In particular, they specify the objective of the fund and for the first time define that the fund itself is able to protect its assets, i.e. the value of its holdings in systemic banks, and may participate in terms of capital increases, such as any private investor, in order to protect its assets by controlling the way he wishes to participate, of course always in the context of his purpose, i.e. disinvestment. The proposed provisions therefore explicitly provide that the Financial Stability Fund can now proceed to any relevant operation, in the long term ensuring its investment and facilitating its gradual removal from the banks. In particular, instead of acting as a State aid mechanism, the Fund will be able to operate as if it were a private investor that best manages its assets and can act not as a State aid mechanism but as an independent body assessing investment opportunities and acting on an equal footing with other shareholders for the benefit of its investment. Furthermore, the bill under discussion provides for the abolition of the Greek State's preferential deposit in the event of liquidation, while those new shares will be issued, shared, non-preferential and have no special rights. In particular, the existing provision has been an arrangement that had been left since 2010 when the fund was intended to provide capital aid in the form of preferential shares. Since 2011, this provision has changed and the participation of the Financial Stability Fund has become common shares. A change also comes to the issues of the responsibility of the members of the Financial Stability Fund, as the aim of the new law is to remove significant obstacles which have made it difficult for the Fund to carry out its main task, which is no more than disinvestment. In addition, independent decision-making by the institutions of the Financial Stability Fund is strengthened. Indeed, Article 4 streamlines corporate governance with a clear distinction between the powers and roles of the fund's institutions and, in particular, its two management bodies, namely the Executive Board and the General Council. The General Council is now the main body of administration, while the Executive Board remains the body that makes day-to-day management - management and implements the decisions of the General Council. In conclusion, I would like to mention that today's bill is part of the wider effort of the Minister of Finance, Mr Stagira, which is due to many congratulations on the uninterrupted work that it is doing, as well as on all the financial staff to restructure the Greek economy and, above all, the banking system, so as to create the conditions for a new dynamic relaunch of our economy. Before I close, you will allow me to make a little reference to the amendment relating to the land workers from third countries, which are essential for the trimming and harvesting of various crops, such as asparagus in my own country. At this point I would like to warmly thank the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Lebanese, the Minister for Civil Protection Mr Chrysochoidis, the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Hatzidakis, the Minister for State and Digital Governance Mr Pierrakaki, the Minister for Finance Mr Stakora, the Minister for Migration and Asylum, Mr Mitaraki, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Regional Policy Mr Plakatakis, the Minister for Health Mr Kikilia,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u190	If you say 'thank you all the government', there will be no problem.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u191	...the Minister for Development and Investment Mr.Georgiadis, the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr. Skylakakis, the Deputy Minister of Foreign Affairs Mr. Varvitsiotis, the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr. Petsas, the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, Mr. Hardalia, as well as all their partners for the quick reflexes they have shown and the coordinated moves have solved this issue, which is vital to the regions of northern Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u192	Thank you. I don't know if he forgot someone from the government. We are now continuing with Mr Arsenis, who has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u193	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentarians and MPs, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the bill you actually call on you to vote in favour, legalise the bracelet against the public, makes the damage of the public legitimate, as long as public property is reduced. It gives immunity to those who decide the damage to the public. It is also a hypocrisy bill, as it increases our contributions to the European Union unless we recycle and recommend it to us a government that does everything in order not to recycle, everything to burn waste, privatise it, have all the motives in the economy in order not to recycle it. However, the Government rejects four amendments tabled by Mera25 and I would like to refer to them. The first concerns the suspension of the start-up, i.e. the postponement of the time-frame of the story, the bankruptcy code that makes all Greeks into bankruptcy, anyone who owes more than 30,000 euros. And you bring it now, at the worst time of the economy, for the households. Our second amendment refers to direct support for the businesses affected by the epidemic, with a public contribution to the repayment of professional loans to businesses from the epidemic and COVID, with a subsidy for companies for the purchase and repayment of goods, with the deletion of tax and insurance obligations for all firms affected, with the suspension of the recovery of certified debts and a period of instalments, abolition of an advance income tax on business activity, a reduction in tax rates to 15%, as well as the rationalisation of HISA. These are self-evident things. We've presented them in detail. We are rescheduling them and the Minister is rejecting them again. Another amendment also concerns the permanentisation of workers' services in cleanliness, Mr Minister, of your own Ministry. It's a hundred women and men who have been working for over twenty years with eighteen months' contracts and you don't simulate them. In fact, now you are trying to break the movement, permanently leaving some of them on the road and leaving most of them on the road, women and men who are just before retirement and leaving them without any safeguard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u194	Be well, thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u195	Mr President, it is one more. It concerns permanent integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions of two-wheeled drivers, couriers and external workers working on a dicyclopedia. We ask for the self-evident.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u196	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u197	Minister, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u198	You're welcome, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u199	Mr. Colleague, because you said it was self-evident what you asked for, could you please tell me the account? It's a number. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u200	I'm sorry, now we're not having a dialogue, but you want to say a word, a number? Because other people may not be interested in numbers, do you want to answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u201	Sure. Thank you, Mr President. We've presented the analytical evidence. But I want to say the bill for the cleaners: zero. They're just giving it to the private company. He'll give them half the wages, and you'll pay the same. That's what you're doing, Mr. Stakoura.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u202	Okay, thanks. Mr. Hetas has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u203	Mr President, thank you. Mr Stavoura, to legislate on a special tax regime - and I will go back to the subject that we raised this morning too high with the 'introduction' of Mr Mitsarakis - for illegal immigrants and NGOs is your political choice and your right. You will be judged by the Greek people for this. I'll end up somewhere, though, but listen to me, Mr. Stakoura. The fact that the government chooses in a bankrupt country, with its citizens locked in the homes, unemployed, to mock and make amendments to the Greek Parliament with special provisions, where in the ESTIA 2001 programme everyone who takes this money has no reservation, no contribution, no contribution, no compensation, no compensation, no compensation, no compensation! We are vertically opposed and said you will be judged by the Greek people. That's your right! But you have no right to lie to the Greek people, to your colleagues, to the Members of the other parties. It's a disgrace! Mr. Metarakis came here today and lied. We personally cannot tolerate anyone lying to us! He said, therefore, Mr Mitarakis, in our position at the position of President of the Greek Solution this morning - I read, Mr Staikora, Mitarakis - "a radio from Thessaloniki already says there will be a special tax regime for NGOs. This is not the case!’ You were here, he said it! ‘Partners of implementation ‘ESTIA 2021’. It's a shame that the Minister is lying. There's twenty-six acquaintances inside. I won't say about the Municipality of Athens, Thessaloniki, Levadaion and the rest. ‘Catholic Relief Services’ NGO, ‘Life Force’ NGO, ‘Land of Hope’ NGO, ‘HOPELAND’ NGO’, ‘IALAKTIDA’ NGO, ‘NOS’ NGO, ‘PRAKSIS’ NGO, ‘Social Solidarity Actions’ NGO, ‘Together with Humanitarian Social Organisation’, NGO. It lies and it is shameful that the government should legislate in the midst of a poorer country with a special tax regime for NGOs and illegal immigrants. It's shameful for the Minister of Immigration to lie! He's lying! Listen a little, Mr. Stakoura. Or Mr. Metarakis will come here to say before the Greek Parliament, the National Representation, that he is lying to the National Representation or resigning. There's nothing else. Mr. Stavura, there's nothing else! He's lying. Here are the writings, here are what he himself tabled today in the Minutes and we recovered it, and we present it to you! There are seventeen NGOs inside. He's a liar! I'm sorry to say, he's lying, he's making fun of us. Go on, we don't respect the Greek people, but Mr. Metarakis has no right to make fun of him. At the same time, Mr Staikora, the amendment on land workers is being tabled. So our proposal is to give the Greek state so much it is? - 50 euros to Greek unemployed, to give them a premium to go to work.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u204	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u205	Mr President, I shall end. I've been here for fourteen hours every day too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u206	That does not mean you must speak too much. There's no way in the Rules of Procedure that anyone who lives in this House...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u207	I will end in a minute, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u208	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much. That's the solution. So, if you are going to get foreign land workers to whom the burden is due, the virological load - you remember what happened in the summer that they went to work and what they carried with them until we closed the border - you are doing EUR 50 for the Greek unemployed to work in these fields. I'm hanging up with this, Mr. President. You said that the Government said by means of Mrs Peloni's government representative that it does not forbid the demonstrations - that is what the New Democracy Government says - because it respects the constitutional right of assembly. Yes, sir! And we respect it, and we told it to all tons. At the same time, however, you do not respect the constitutional right to practice religious worship. Why don't you respect it and we have closed churches?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u210	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u211	Does respect for the constitutional right to practice religious worship not apply here? Does that only apply to the synapse? Actually, get yourself together, because you're not going well at all!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u212	Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u213	I'm gonna need more time. I shall only speak about the amendments, to justify what we are voting on. On 794 we will not vote for it, because the CEDEFOP may have submitted its own development proposals on the basis of the guidelines of the Pissaridis report, to get the municipalities into the Recovery Fund, but what we know well is that development projects are not designed on the basis of popular needs and shortcomings in basic social and other infrastructures that are perpetuated but for the needs of business groups alone. Let us remember that municipalities and small towns which do not have staffed technical services, because recruitment has been forbidden for years, they have been unable to cope. They are, therefore, being blackmailed, devolved from their services to another body, renounce them, privatise them, otherwise they are excluded from any possibility of submitting a proposal for financing, of course, to run locally. That is why we are voting against. With 792 of the Ministry of Labour, we agree and vote on the articles relating to the financing of EPCs, professional apprenticeship schools and OAS experiments, as well as the extension of public cleaning services contracts, although they need to be permanent, since the needs are adequate and permanent. However, for the Elderly Hospital in Piraeus, although we know that there are problems, although we know that there is a need for state aid, we have concerns about why the exemption from insurance information about what it means? That the workers won't have insurance cover? And also, they have two months to pay. The extensions that are given and which are up to a year up to a year we say that they should be accompanied by a wording, a wording and a commitment to pay workers. How will these people live? That is precisely why we are expressing ourselves with 'the present'. In 793, we are voting on the article on the transport of firearms and "residences" in the article on the competence of the Ministry of Immigration, that is to say, the total'residences'. And I conclude with the late amendment from the Ministry of Rural Development. Yes, it is necessary to take measures to facilitate land workers to work in our country. Yes, we know that they need to be organized by the state in conditions of pandemic, i.e. health protocols, covid tests, ensuring decent living conditions, care, if necessary, i.e. state care and intervention. This amendment gives the farmer the full responsibility and obliges him to pay a paradox 100 euros. At the same time, it imposes a specific period of stay of at least thirty days - up to three months - for employment in a particular farmer, without taking into account that a few days may rain and therefore it may not be possible to work in the field or that a farmer may need a land worker for fewer days and that this worker can work in another village. I would also like to remind you that in the act of legislative content of 1-5-2020, a commitment was provided for by the employer to pay all the insurance contributions and labour law obligations. Now they're not required. It is far behind and the legislative act. That is why we are expressing ourselves with 'the present'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u214	Good, Mrs Manolakou. Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u215	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, on the subject of the amendments, we shall vote on Amendment No 792/119 and Amendment No 800/126, namely the financing of OAED programmes and others and the transfer of a third-country citizen for employment in agricultural work, because we believe that they are working in the positive direction. However, we object to the Ministerial Amendment No 793-120 on the issues of the 'ESSTIA' programme and the General Secretariat for Civil Protection. I must tell you that we have not been persuaded by Mr Metarakis that this procedure is very transparent and clear. We will also vote 'no' in Amendment No 794/21 on local government. We have a consistent controversy with everything that brings together structures in the centre and gets them from the government. For example, with regard to the technical service for the projects to be carried out by the municipalities and regions, this was what Mr Vorides has done, so that he could collect this procedure for monitoring the projects at the centre. On this occasion, Minister, I would like to ask you and say, perhaps not tonight, when you will bring a final and very specific proposal to discuss the criteria for selecting projects at local, regional and national level, so that a very serious debate can be held at the National Delegation on the recovery fund's programme. This is a crucial issue. You have made your first proposals in the European Union and I imagine there will be a great debate on this in the next few years and before these proposals are adopted. In addition, I want to tell you that for us there is no question of the Financial Stability Fund continuing for many months to come. He must at some point be abolished and his property must be passed on to the Treasury. Not at the supranational, but at the Treasury and at the Ministry of Finance. It is a process that needs to be done, rather than constantly discussing how this situation will develop, whether or not the Members of this House will have immunity. I think the time has come to initiate this process, because it is necessary. I should like to close, Mr President, with a political comment. Mr Tsakalotos mentioned social democracy very much and said at the heart of his speech that social democracy in Europe, but also in general, has nothing to do with social movements, that it has been cut out from everywhere and that is why he cannot participate in these fronts that are made at the level of the People's Movement, with introductorys and without introductorys. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would therefore like to say here that social democracy may have retreated for a long time, but today it is coming back to the fore. The very development and tectonic changes that are taking place at this time bring its ideas and values to the fore. I also want to say that if it wants to be linked to and renewed by social democracy, it must be linked not to the movements of 'indignant', not to movements that say not only, but to movements that propose changes and in practice claim rights in such a way that they are conquered but also to maintain social cohesion. I must say that our difference lies in the way we claim at European level. It is the Socialist Party which, for example, has been calling for an increase in the European Union's own resources for too long. It does so, because it has a clear view of how both the level of convergence of growth and the level of strengthening of Europe's resources and the potential for growth in general of the European Union should be apportioned. So we have a clear ideological and political difference, which we will be discussing from now on. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mr. Scandalides. Mr. Armalene has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say to my dear friend Mr Scandalidis that Mr Tsakalotos has not spoken outrageously about social democracy. He barely said that social democracy is coming back to the fore, but that it must be linked to the popular masses. That was an impulse and not an opposition. In any case, I now come to the issue of the bill. First of all, I would like to repeat very briefly that in Part I we are 'in favour'. We welcome this step by the small, even marginal increase in the European Union and the Council of Europe, and obviously along with all the progressive forces, we also call on you as government to adopt the proposals for a brave increase in own resources if, in fact, we want there to be a European Union, in accordance with the European vision, as was once adopted by its founders. We therefore vote 'in favour' in Part A of the bill. As far as Part II of the bill is concerned, we insist that the Financial Stability Fund is not guaranteed until 31-12-2022, as the institution that has the responsibility of managing the property of the Greek State in the banking system. And this once the officials of the financial stability fund have been granted immunity in the event that the public interest is harmed, on the basis of the availability of their shares at lower prices than their acquisition prices or below the current market price. Besides - and here I am going to say something I hadn't had time to say in the papers - all this reduced public intervention has led to a very large reduction in banking branches in recent years. We have over 50% reduction in branches and over 40% reduction in workers. So when we have this policy, how is the benefit to society ultimately reflected? So our position in principle is shaped in 'the present', because we cannot vote in favour of Part II. I shall now come to the amendments. As far as the amendment of the Ministry of Labour is concerned, we are voting'residents' because, as far as OAED's professional apprenticeship schools are concerned, they are occupied, because of Mrs Kerameo's last law and the students are in turmoil, because they have entered another regime and they will graduate under another regime. Will there be any provision on this? As far as clean-up contracts are concerned, we are 'in favour of' the extension but it needs to be permanent, because they cover fixed and fixed needs. With regard to the other three amendments, we are voting'reserves' on the issues of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, because the regulation facilitates the implementation of the NGOs, in fact it is clear that some NGOs are being financed recently for the implementation of the programme, such as the so-called 'HOPELAND', which was included in the NGO register by speedy procedures and without having any experience in the programme as well as in the refugee field in general. Consequently, the LAGs and the experienced civil society actors who have successfully implemented the ESTIA programme in previous years are now being hampered by various tricks for the benefit of "logues". As far as the Ministry of Interior is concerned, we are voting against the provision. Here I would like to say how the 'Philomos II' was replaced by Antonis Tritsis from the program. Of course, these are major programmes that will give great impetus to regional development, because through the LAG this development is really being promoted and the projects that are being financed are very important. However, there is no question of it being checked and evaluated by committees that are only closely expressing the administration of the Ministry. We therefore vote against this amendment. As far as the Ministry of Rural Development is concerned, we really cannot legitimise an hour and a half before the end of the meeting. An amendment cannot come shortly before the end of the sitting, no matter what the issue may be solved. But we haven't had time to study it. We will therefore vote 'at present', i.e. 'white', because we cannot study this process any further. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, my colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, we will conclude with Mr Karagunis. Here, Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, Mr President. I told SYRIZA's colleagues that you had to do the self-evident thing, namely to vote for this bill and for the first part that was in a sense of compulsory consent, but also for the second one, because I see no substantial disagreement with this bill. You take the first step, i.e. you vote for the first part of it, but you are actually insisting on the same issues for the second part. We have told you, the Minister has said, on the issue of immunity, which Mr Chakalotos has again tried to analyse. I think that you should also do that, because it is a matter of your own accord. You, by your provision in 2015, enabled CFSM executives to sell the shares below the acquisition price and below their stock exchange value. And it is not a matter of extreme and purely legal nature. It's a political matter. After you have legislated on this provision and the further disposal of shares in this way, I do not understand why you insist on something that you have legislated on. With regard to the criminal dimension of the issue of the infidelity of bank managers - because Mr Tsakalotos referred to this - there have been, as you know, reports from the Court of Appeal and also from the Court of Appeal. They were conflicting with each other. Others made the law constitutional and other unconstitutional, as amended by Article 390 of the Criminal Code. The F section of the Ice Bay came in and said it was a constitutional one. So there too - because he has made a reference to this, too, Mr Chakalotos - I do not understand exactly what you want to support. You and Mr. Tsakalotos and other members of the HFSF strategy have also been mentioned and what we want to do. I think that the Secretary-General responsible, Mr Zavvos, has explained this very thoroughly, but of course Mr Staikoras, too. It is clear what the government intends to do, but Mr Tsakalotos and you do not understand one thing, namely that the CFSF is an independent body guaranteed by law and has a statutory purpose. And he has - and we told you - all the know-how to decide on the optimal management of his property. His life ends in 2022. And it would have been over since 2017 if you had not extended its duration. Why did you give up on her? You extended it because you brought in a third unnecessarily recapitalisation, you dramatically increased the rates of the HFSF in banks, you increased the taxpayers' report - this is the worst - and you could not guarantee disinvestment. That's what happened. We therefore have as the objective of fulfilling first of all the fund's objectives and completing this process, ensuring above all the public interest and the Greek taxpayer and his involvement in the CFSF. I think, Mr President, that we need to keep the positives of the four-day exhaustive debate. The important thing is that our country for the next seven years will be armored with EUR 72 billion! That's unprecedented! We have received most of the money in proportion to all the countries of the European Union. In other words, we have a very large financial well in our hands, and we have ensured that. Thank God you're voting for the first part at least. I think that our country will soon have a more liberalised, more stable banking system and will be free from the cord of'red' loans - I am holding what the State Secretary responsible, Mr Zavvos, has said - which will finally give us the opportunity for the banking system to operate for its purpose, namely to support professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises. So, first of all, I would like to congratulate you, Mr Ministers, both for the work you have done and for bringing this bill. I think banking is the most sensitive issue. First of all, the real economy needs a stable and strong financial system to support us. I think I will keep the positive, as I said before. We are obviously voting in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u220	Council Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union’s own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and other provisions is hereby declared concluded. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. We would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, of nine articles, of four amendments, of the farewell article, and of the entire bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, as well as the hotel article and the entire bill. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u221	Once you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u222	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u223	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘Definition of Decision (EU, Euratom) 2020/2053 of the Council of 14 December 2020 on the system of the European Union’s own resources and repealing Decision 2014/335/EU, Euratom and other provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, on the principle of Articles and of the whole and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u224	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u225	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-11-S1-commons.u226	With the consent of the House at 21:10 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, March 12, 2021, at 10:30, on the subject of the House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, (a) Prime Minister's time and (b) topical questions.
