ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Introduction to higher education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions'. I will give the floor first to the Minister of Education, Mrs Kerameos, who has two legislative improvements. Mr. Zebplis and Mr. Bored and then the Deputy Prime Minister of Communications, Mr. Christos Tarantilis, will take the floor. Madame Horn, good morning! You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Good morning to all and many of them for years! I would like to put forward, Mr President, legislative improvements to the bill for distribution to Members. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u3	I would ask that the legislative improvements be distributed. Mr Athanasios Zebbles from New Democracy had the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, education policy in our country is essentially the endless battle between reform and counter-reformation. Among these two poles there were of course the careless, the fatal, the few. The story, however, is written by those who dare, those who conflict with established attitudes and artifacts, those who are involved with the anachronistic front of yesterday. This controversy is nowadays being carried forward. Let's see now why SYRIZA literally lyssomogens in one more retardation battle. Did the pain suddenly catch him for the quality of education? Even the Khmer Reds in Cambodia did not target excellence in so far as SYRIZA did so in its own governance. It is therefore the problem. The left faces the university as a privileged place to maintain neomarxist ideals, perceptions that can survive only in conditions of blind and extreme conflict. This fact had cynically confessed to Mr. Gavroglou, saying that the university as an institution expresses a conflictual coexistence. The coexistence of this conflict is which allows for pre-conflicts and action by extra-university groups; it provides for lawlessness and vandalism, which legalises small minorities to impose their opinion by force. This congress coexistence is also an appropriate nursery to develop the "students" from amphitheatres to future trade union and party officials. These, of course, are for the many. Left-wing selectors do not trust the public school or in kindergarten to send their children. This was also the philosophy of the anti-education policy of the period 2015-2019, which exhibited what was good that had been built in previous years. It was indeed like a "Baltas" name and stuff fell! - which leveled everything down. And it wasn't just that it restored eternal students or that it undermined experimental and standard schools, as much as it mainly marked the passage from excellence and discrimination to rascal and minor effort. Emblematic image of the time the white glue in the universities. It has undoubtedly contributed to this, and the supremacy of the TEIs hastily and in a rough manner. In any case, however, it leads to unreasonable degrees, unprofessionalized diplomas, in degrees that break the dreams of young people. And this is a delusion that has to end. This requires a vast majority of youth and citizens, as all the recent measurements show. Society, more mature than ever, questions inertia. It questions populism which easily shares degrees to everyone. It questions populism which is founded everywhere by university departments with amendments to the knee, last minute. It deserves brave reforms for a new, upgraded and secure academic environment of knowledge and free movement of ideas. Reforms that lead to conscious life choices and successful careers for young people. Reforms to ensure the timely integration of studies and the well-being of the labour market. Finally, reforms that strengthen the institutions' autonomy in the process of introducing and graduating students. And in this context of autonomy, Minister, the Senate of the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, recently distinguished between the two best institutions in the world, founded in Evia the Evros complex, with four university departments. These sections were selected with purely academic criteria and after a long-term feasibility and viability study. The process of certification of the parts under suspension should therefore be accelerated, which will allow for the complete operation of the complex. It is also a dominant trend, both in Europe and in America, large and powerful, for the leading institutions to set up satellite facilities in nearby areas, with the aim of expanding their educational activities. There is no doubt that strengthening the autonomy of HEIs combined with the freedom of science, research and teaching are the core of the legislative initiative under discussion. It is a draft law that, as Professor Nikos Alivizatos pointed out, attempts to put an end to one of the most important legacy of a grim past, which poisons university life and dismantles universities in misery and poorness. After all, every effort to improve public education strengthens equal opportunities and owes the economically weaker ones, which is also demonstrated by the fact that they do not have many alternatives. So the arguments of social racism that have been heard by the Opposition are only to underestimate the skills of young people, to offend generations and generations of poor people who have managed to get the future out of their hands. There is no doubt that our prolongation approaches education in terms of political consensus and a national strategy. He proved this in practice and in the vote of the Diamantopoulou Act, which the previous government demolished by a vengeful maniac. Our paradox has always been identified with the forces of creation and responsibility. This must do, too, the Civic Reformation, stand to the height of circumstances, to the boi of left reformers such as the French, such as Alexander Delmuzos, who said that the school stands above and beyond every temporary party rival. And in these words we call on SYRIZA to stop being costed behind the forces of regression, to stop petting the "bugs" and to close the eye to disobedience. Because the disobedience of the loaf and the fad has never raised the story, it has never raised the major changes that were responding to the demands of the times, never raised the reforms imposed by civil society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr Zebilis, and for keeping time, that is what I want. And from Evia we're going to Istanbul and Mr. Georgios Bored of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. First, allow me, honourable Members, to wish the government good jobs. I have here a picture of the keys that have so far been collected. The challenge - Mr Georgiadis' invitation - is a broad resonance. The restaurants deliver them massively. I assume that for those who do not hand over the keys, Mr Georgiadis and the government have keys. But with the keys getting the debts, not the keys. And we are talking about a country that experiences a deadly combination of public and private debt. The Prime Minister was asked to "SKAI" if we go to new memorials, if the "married" eventually the country said that there is no problem, because the Greeks are saving it - repeated what he said in the House - and then they will be ready to exile to spend what they are saving. Look at you rather something is happening here in terms of contact with reality. The focus is closed, in primary production some fresh products that people want to channel to survive must be directed to the people's market. What about the government? Apart from Mrs Kerameos' patents, they have much more. He's thinking, he's bringing a bill to import companies via PPP into popular markets. Now, look at this, the folk markets have become! To do what? Go where do the sellers go? Where are they pushing them? To the margin? Some kind of bin? So I say that you want to legislate in this way, that is to say, bring bills that at least us and the whole of the Opposition consider them unacceptable, and you want to rub them in the face of the Opposition. You say 'no, they will now come in the pandemic'. Well, it's not possible for these bills to come into the pandemic and demand that there be no protest. This can't be! If you mean democracy like that, there's probably some misunderstanding. Can I tell you something? Speakers come to this step and what do they say - I heard them the other day and saw them - and they say what? "You," he says, "you are not normal. We're the real ones. You are out of normality.’ Where do these people come from and where does Mr. Mitsotakis want to take them? Finally, you'll tell us that only Mr. Lignade is in normality and you're all out of normality. I guess that's not gonna happen, because there's a ban on publishing photos. I mean: there is nothing more dangerous in democracy, when a power feels uncontrolled, that it has found the golden rule not to be controlled. He decides to do something and do it without fear of control. He says: "You will get a fine, Grandma, so much euros." Of course, after they got up and some of the stones inside said they were fined, and they hadn't published the case. So, a reader would have wondered what fine, since he didn't see the light of publicity anywhere. Wild fines in villages, mountainous, isolated, and the Prime Minister in Ikaria welcomes him. What was that? And the order was for no photos to be published. And because Mr Taradilis is here, the Government Representative, may I ask: will they eventually be posted by you, obviously, every day by various tables, who will say what we are allowed to put today, which photos, who should be next to or rather who should not be next to the photo? Is that how you mean democracy? I think the thing has gone far. And I come to the object. If we were to discuss the problems that exist in some schools, talk about it, even though that is what you want to hide something else. Not only should some choose these institutions, the IEKs, but they are violently pushed that way. And you're using the subject of universities and class. I say, if that was it, we should talk about it, we should choose the best world practices. They came here to the Faculty of Universities and made various proposals on what is the case in the other countries of Europe, the Americans. What are you going to find out about the wheel? No, you want something else. You want to give the impression to a world that is frightened and thinks it maintains that the first and last word everywhere, even the legalization of what is related to education, has been the police. That's what you want to do, that's what you want to impose. Mr Georgiadis appeared here yesterday as a man who, in the context of Greek democracy, has no voice. He has no voice, Mr. Georgiadis! He was forbidden to go to college. Listen to me, I say neither violence nor threat of violence in the universities. To get Mr. Georgiadis to the universities, to know and to know what a democratic representative means. What do we have here? Unreasonable monologues in the media of the Ministers, sometimes delusional, without the slightest hint of the presence of someone who will put something to the only minister. So, this democracy you want? Is that what you're visionating? Mr. Syrgygos came here yesterday and made it all up, that is, he put in the posters that exist in all the universities. Previously, several years ago, I had been to a university in Germany for a short time, not in university spaces, but in amphitheaters there were slogans of all kinds. It's the Utopia of youth. That's more violence. You want the enforcement. You want Mr Chrysochoidis with the enthusiasm of the zealous to have the floor for everything. We've got the coroner. Mr Chrysochoidis announces when we get out of the coronary. Why? He took over after him? Soon he'll tell us that tear gas fights the coronary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u7	Finish, Mr. Bored.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u8	I'll be done. I would like to say this: the country does not need these rehearsals you see. You are also giving them a historical dimension, saying that you have come to overthrow the ideological hegemony and put this legislative laboratory forward. You don't care to solve problems. The problem we have just said at the universities could be solved with a consensus and a step forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u9	Finish, Mr. Bored. You spent five to six minutes on other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u10	I'm done. Because you think you will be ruling eternally, that there will be no other government after you, which can think and do differently. But there will be, and it will have drawn conclusions from all the recent adventures in the country, where the right things have been done, where something different has to be done and, in any case, which will give a real and not a false hope to the Greek people. Mr. Mitsotakis said he doesn't know when the lockdown is over, but that we're going to go out, that he sees light in the tunnel. And the light in the tunnel may be the train that comes over us and with fear we lose a boom of hope.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u11	Mr. Bored, don't tell me you're done again. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much. I'm sorry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u13	All right, let's talk for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u14	No, you won't all speak for ten minutes. We're talking about the Ministry of Education bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u15	Respect the time of anyone who speaks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u16	Mr Plovri, I am not saying that the Member should not be mentioned - he should be in a cage - and in news, but one - two minutes. If you're talking about 5'47' in news and then in the bill, it's logical to take me ten minutes, Mr. Bored. I don't want this to happen from now on. Please. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the topical and urgent debate on Friday, February 12, 2021: A. Current Questions to the First Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The 383/4-2-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Department of New Democracy Mr. George Koumoutsakos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Average of Kymis Avenue". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. SYRIZA's 384/5-2-2021 topical question - Progressive Alliance Mr. Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “Who is running schools? The Ministry of Education or Racism and intolerance;’. 3. The Question No 380/4-2-2021 by the Vice-President of the Parliament and MP of Arcadia of the Change Movement Mr. Odyssey Constantinople to the Minister for Rural Development and Food on the subject: "What is the evolution of the implementation of the measures and actions announced on 19 June 2020 for the development of the State Institute of Bytina?" 4. The question by No. 404/8-2-2020 of the Greek Communist Party MEP Mr. Yiannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The opening of university institutions". B. Current Questions to the Second Cycle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by No. 405/8-2-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary I Athens of New Democracy Mrs. Fotinis Pipilis to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Strengthening local government for the maintenance and promotion of monuments dedicated to the National Paliggeesia throughout the territory". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 403/8-2-2021 by MP Evia of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Stacking the payment of state financial support to farmers affected by the floods of 2017 and 2018." Questions - Questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 2461/8-12-20 asked by MP Pella of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Aid to cotton growers because of the low sales prices of the product due to the COVID -19 pandemic." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under No 128/34/6-10-2020, and application for the submission of documents by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Importance between producers of transparency and unequal treatment of areas in the allocation of rights from the National Reserve from 2017 onwards’. 3. Question No 3133/8-1-2021 by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Kegeroglou to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Educational Aviation Center in Kalamata". 4. The question by No 2967/29-12-2020 asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "The government initiatives on Elefsina Shipyards are contradictory". And now the Deputy Minister has the floor with the Prime Minister for Communication and Information and Government spokesman, Christos Tarantilis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u17	Ladies and gentlemen, no substantial debate on the Ministry of Education bill can be held unless we make it clear what kind of universities we want in our country if we do not agree on what the mission of higher education is. The government, as well as the whole of society, considers that the university's mission is the free movement of ideas, the cultivation of the spirit and the development of culture, research, the production of new knowledge and technological development, the elimination of social inequalities by means of professional rehabilitation and social development. How, however, can the Greek university achieve these objectives effectively, when students and teachers have been experiencing degradation, harmlessness and degeneration of the very concept of "higher education" for years? So, in response to the demands of society and of common sense, the government is moving towards a comprehensive reform, on the one hand, concerning the introduction and study of higher education institutions in our country, on the other hand, the upgrading and security of the academic environment. Ladies and gentlemen, we are aware of the intense, demanding and often psychoactive process of introducing into the Greek university. Most of us have it, after all. How, then, does the state prepare to welcome our young people who, full of expectation, enter the universities? How do we stay unscrupulous when students of the white glue are called? On the other hand, how and above all why do we continue to consent to the dynamism picture that each autumn disappoints all these brilliant children who have suffered a place in their dream school? With my regret, for years, I have observed, as a teacher in the university, first-year students who arrived at the central building of the University, on the first day of the University of Athens, seeing the widespread drug trafficking on Antonyadou Street or in Mavromatia Street, coming in contact with the extensive blockage at the central gate, which makes it difficult for them to enter the university and really wonder: Are we worthwhile? The same is wondered by their relatives, you know, our former students, when they come happy and laughable for the graduation ceremonies of their children and see the same situations. It is also inappropriate for colleagues from abroad to visit when they visit us in the context of research cooperation. Really, is it not a state failure, when first-year students, relatives and visitors reflect these images of infractionality, especially in the major universities in the country? When every form of violence - aesthetic. verbally, physically, psychologically - it is conducted within the areas of higher education, then we can no longer talk about the high mission of the university, but only about the mere survival of its institution and its officials. The recent incident at the Athens University of Economics with the dean's attack actually tells it all. Of course, during the time being, the opposition is reacting to the efforts made by the government not only to the exceptional human potential of the Greek universities, but also to society as a whole, an institutional framework which will guarantee the upgrading of higher education, for which it was in the run-up to the election and is now being implemented. No one surprised this bill. Reacts the opposition to the new way of introducing into the university for the establishment of a minimum import base. This, however, is a measure that can ensure that the academic conditions for successful study and early completion of studies are actually met. Opposition expresses fear for university institutions' protection teams. However, what the universities have been running for decades - believe me, I come, I have emerged from the Greek public university - is the fear of students and teachers, due to all forms of violation and criminal activities within universities. Unfortunately, there has not been the same sensitivity to trabucism - I am sorry about the word - that there are students, professors and rectoral authorities who dare to express inappropriate views and perceptions. The opposition talks about ensuring academic freedom. But freedom is born in a climate of respect, boldness and spiritual tolerance, not within courage, violence and fear. No attempts have been made in the past to prevent the phenomenon of violence and lawlessness, unfortunately, has come to an end. So what academic freedom are we talking about? Are we confusing the concept of freedom in the sense of immunity? Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, the questions are not rhetorical. They're real and thorny. To these questions I have been publicly put to the public as a university teacher, which I know in practice and not in the theory, by arguing that the most important thing we are trying to achieve is to guarantee throughout the scientific community - to teachers, students, administrative staff - to gain its freedom, to enable the entire university community to operate on the basis of its mission, as I have defined at the beginning of the speech. To sum up, by voting in favour of this draft law, we are protecting the risk of the quality of the highest academic institutions in the country, by restoring the affected prestige and protecting their proper functioning. The university is a leading humanist institution, it is a field for thinking ideas and streams and we would expect a more wise placement of the Antipopulation to protect and upgrade it and not to play party purposes. Changes must go ahead, because this is what the vast majority of students, teachers and society demand. Despite the pandemic, we continue to implement our reforms, which are also our central election commitments. And when the pandemic is done, it will find us ready to face the challenges of the next day, having, of course, left behind the situations that were taking us to a standstill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u20	The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, I wonder and regret - to use your own phrase, Minister - I heard nothing from you - and I was expecting it from you because of your duties - for what has happened recently on public television, for what we have seen, the stuck papers and the orders to the journalists, so that they do not cover what was said in Ikaria and in the Prime Minister's journey, which he said yesterday was a mistake that hurt the citizens. Public television is not the long hand of the government. We're all paying her back in our PPC accounts every month. It must contribute to real information, multi-species information. It must contribute to the recreation of the citizens. It's an obligation by the law of recommendation. Honestly, I would expect you at least to say that it was wrong or ask for responsibility. U.S.S.S.S.S.S.S.A.'s itself asking you and made surnamed complaints, employees at the ERT. Didn't you feel the need to say something for just a minute? You're saying it was wrong and it won't happen again? In any case, be more honest: "We are government and we will do whatever we want." But that's not your store. So I think you really ought to have an answer about it. It is known that you teach at the University of Athens. Have you, as teachers, ever filed with the university's management bodies the request that the dean come in contact with the police and that these wretched people selling the monkeys from where they were supplied? Did you ever look for that link? Because some big dealer, some smuggler fed them. Or the drug dealers, the impoverished drug dealers, from whom did they find their drugs? This concerns you as a problem, a man who comes into contact with young people and teaches them letters?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u22	Mr. Tarantil, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u23	I would like to say, in order not to speak theoretically but in practice, that, as regards what you said, the reality disproves your allegations. If you are looking for all the ERT cards you have played, you will see that the particular fact you refer to, in detail, has been attributed to the ERT's central sheets. There is in no way something like that. We are also the last to have any influence on the ERT news reports. There may have been such a logic in the past. In our own government there is no such logic. As to what you said about the University of Economics, Mr. Skourletis, believe me, it doesn't only happen outside the university. It is also being done within a university and this situation is constantly - particularly in the days of the SYRIZA - ANEL government - getting worse. There was a constant deterioration. It's not just a situation outside the university, it's a situation that happened both inside and outside the university, and it was really sad for our university students.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much. Evangelos Liakos from New Democracy and Attica has the floor. Mr Vassiliadis, Mr Ploris and Mr Heimaras will be followed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u25	Happy birthday to him! It's Mr. Liakos' birthday today, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u26	We wish him a long time!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much for your wishes. Be well. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has, in my opinion, rightly been classified by the Minister of Education, Mr Kerameou as a bill of common sense. I will add, with your permission, and social adulthood. Common sense, because it must be understood that anything that applies to criminal offences and damage to public property outside university institutions must also apply within them. And while under Law 4263/2019 the police can now intervene, the question is, as in the entire Greek territory, the prevention and prevention of criminal offences, as well as the safeguarding of public property. This bill proposes three aspects of strengthening the security of higher education institutions: controlled access and exit, the establishment of a university protection team, the strengthening of disciplinary law. In short, this is an organised effort for the Greek universities, I will not tell you like the rest of European countries, but like the rest of society, with clear sanctions and rules. It is impossible to continue to do the wrong thing about what is going on in tertiary education. Do you know how many meetings are interrupted in a violent way? How many workshops and amphitheaters are destroyed? How many students and teachers are being trampled? What more, in other words, must be done, for example, by the recent portrayal of the Dean of the Athens University of Economics, who has made a round of the internet, in order to understand that unfortunately the situation in the Greek universities has escaped? This is a reality that few people no longer want to admit. These few and those who profess topics of unconstitutionalism and the obstruction of free movement of ideas are probably referred to or even worse to seek to impose their own ideas alone. Destructive and revolutionary ideas, gentlemen, are not cultivated when violence and trabukism are on the agenda. Most students, teachers and administrative staff do not feel safe within the Greek universities. The majority of Greek citizens demand that this terror treaty be changed. And that's exactly what this bill comes to do. To restore common sense and vindicate the struggles of thousands of students of DAP - DPRK and the majority of students who are now fighting honestly and democratically for the upgrading of Greek universities. I am proud to have participated in these struggles, but above all I am pleased that today we are proving to young students and students that it is worth fighting for what you believe and that there is another way of claiming, that of dialogue and brave decisions. I now come to the second part of our debate, to the proposed arrangements for introducing and studying the Greek universities. I will try to explain to you why I believe that the proposals of this bill are moving in the right direction and will contribute to our social adulthood. First of all, a school limit is finally introduced for all schools, unless of course there are important reasons justifying any extension. Thus the institution of the eternal student ceases to apply, with the enormous illnesses that entails both social and economic. Perhaps, then, they will slowly cease to exist and the excuses of the semi-children are still there. The aim is to streamline the student's choices by introducing it into higher education. How many times have we never heard of "mom, go to some school, take the pass and see what you're going to do?" Now note how many problems are created in the individual itself, but also in the state, by this latent attitude. First, a student is taken up by a position he does not really want. The result is that someone who really wants to study in this department is deprived of that choice. Secondly, the student who entered school who doesn't want to be able to rest and not to seek what he really likes. Thus it will either remain an eternal student or substantially extend study time or go out into the labour market with a degree that does not belong to its original intentions. As a result, it will be lost years for him and lost resources for the Greek state. With this bill each student candidate will have a certain number of options. The aim of this arrangement is to introduce as many candidates as possible into parts that they really want. Ladies and gentlemen, over time drafts on education are a field of strong political controversy. I think, however, that education - and indeed within the modern-day constantly evolving world - should not be the subject of political purposes. I am sure you are all aware of the level of understanding young children have. We are, therefore, the ones who need to run and prevent, creating educational structures that suit a modern society and an organised society above all. That's the only way we're gonna win as a country. For these reasons, I urge you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you too, Mr Liaco. Again many years, as you wish! Thank you for keeping time. Mr Vassiliade is called in Stepma by the beautiful Pella and the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we often hear the words 'from education all start' and face it as a wooden community. In fact, however, education and, in particular, higher education are inextricably linked to the production process and society. In a country like Greece, with the economy relying on the service sector, investment in the knowledge economy is a one-way path. Greek universities must have a dominant role in this knowledge economy. This admission is nothing new. For decades Greek society has wanted to upgrade the Greek university, as is apparent from measurements over time. In view of this need, the New Democracy raised the issues of education at the heart of the government programme, which provided for a modern framework for the operation of higher institutions, with effective institutions of administration, substantial autonomy, funding beyond state, assessment, security, extroversion. Greek citizens have chosen for this New Democracy, while the large majority - including voters of opposition parties - supports reforms recommended by the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. Who do they disagree? Who are they responding to? But those who are currently exploiting and gaining from this situation, in which the Greek universities, molotov manufacturers, defenders of lawlessness, tramps who "build" teachers at their offices and disperse the warheads and, unfortunately, all this is happening with the political coverage of even part of the Officerial Response. It is regrettable, Mr President, that, in particular, when the Government and the Collaps are indicted, we are making customers for private educational institutions in the framework of the draft law under discussion. The truth is, the best advertising for private institutions or institutions abroad than this disgusting situation of Greek HEIs does not exist. I now come to the draft law under discussion. In my view, these are necessary steps towards a long-term modernisation of higher education. The first framework for interventions relates to the introduction to higher institutions. The minimum import base is established, a process which ensures a more targeted distribution of admissions to higher education based both on the wishes of the students and on the needs of the schools. For the first time, academic departments have a speech on the import base. The submission of a two-stage computerised prospectus and the possibility of submitting a parallel card for a post in a public IEK expand and improve the choices of candidate students. These interventions, together with the introduction of the maximum time limit, will result in academic rooms filling up with aware students of the level required by industry. In the long term this means upgrading the value of diplomas. In particular, on the issue of eternal students, the regulation proposed by the Ministry is - in my opinion - an incision to the Greek society and the economy. Once a transitional phase is foreseen for current students, this is a positive development for themselves, as they will either complete them or be released from a situation that would obviously never happen. In addition, it is a positive development for the departments themselves to reduce bureaucracy and better evaluate the education provided. It is a positive development for the economy, which will not have thousands of students recorded who are in practice already joining the labour force. The second framework for interventions in the draft law concerns security issues. Ladies and gentlemen, when teachers and students are attacked and beaten, when university spaces have been occupied for years, when schools close to the "so I want" of certain minority groups, often assisted by people who do not belong to the university, we cannot talk about freedom of expression at the Greek university. The first step was taken with the abolition of anachronistic and abusive asylum. Today, the draft law under discussion introduces controlled entry to the AEIs, while a new integrated framework of Disciplinary Law for members of the university community is provided for. In addition, a specific protection group is set up for university institutions where the problem of lawlessness has evolved to the extent necessary for coordinated intervention. In conclusion, Mr President, let me say that these issues should have been resolved a long time ago. It's time to finish with the abatas. I will repeat a sentence that I have said from this step: let us finally enter the 21st century, even with two decades' delay. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr Vassiliou. Mr. Liakos and Mr. Vasiliadis in five minutes have said everything. Let's go see Mr. Pleari now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u31	Mr President, I have all four minutes from the previous ones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u32	No, you don't have the four minutes, because I won't keep them cool from the left. Mr Athanasios Plearis from New Democracy, elected in 1st Athens, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u33	In attending the interview of the Chief of Police Representation, with the famous - who went to revise in this Chamber - Mr. Srotter's question "do you accept the risk of sticking a coronary from the rallys?", which his answer was "surely, I accept the risk", I remembered that, when Mr. Tsipras became Prime Minister, before the famous painting with the bulls entered behind his interviews, he had - go to the internet to see - a painting that referred to bricks. He had some of the shapes he's got in the book. And here, then, is the main difference of strategy in simple words, for people to understand. Mr. Mitsotakis is playing chess. Playing chess, follows a strategy and tries with this strategy to bring about results. Alexis Tsipras plays a brick. He's got a strategy, but we're throwing the dice and we're waiting to see what's coming to the dice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Comrade, it was a queen!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u35	We risk it with Mr Varoufakis eight months in the European Union, we risk it with the Turks, we risk it with the coronary. The problem with gambling is, if the dice doesn't come to you, you get the "ma" opponent. So right now there's one serious thing you need to understand. You're no longer the 3% party. Mr. Tsipras is no longer president-in-Office of the Council, he was Prime Minister in the country, he is Chief of Officerial Anti-Population, and when he comes back and says in a world "surely, we'll risk it", he's like saying to this world, "Get out and there's no pandemic problem". That's how people take it. So we're coming to the bill now. Congratulations are worthy of this Minister, which even the Chief of Mera25 has a lot of courage here and said with elitism: "I from Cambridge and from Oxford, who haven't even been outside." He told you so, if you remember, that you haven't even been outside. Mrs. Kerameou, of course, was also in Paris and Harvard, which made the negotiation of Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Varoufakis to the worst of all times. It's insulting from a Left-wing Chief to speak in such a style and to say if we've been through these universities. Of course we're through. And Heidelberg is in these universities and a lot of people from all the parliamentary groups have a picture of both Greek and foreign universities. They deserve the congratulations, because what has had to have been done since the first moment in the world is actually done at the Greek university. It is a bill section not only on security - for which I will speak - but also on all other reforms. Reform first: There is a basis. Be careful, the basis is not an absolute number, but it is in combination with what is being considered, so that people are not wronged if matters may be difficult. It is ensured that the world that enters the Greek university has given a fight to write tests. We heard it was the Greek school's fault and we're the ones who write '1'. But for those who write "20", then again the Greek school is responsible. No, ladies and gentlemen. There are people who go to give tests to pass and may not pass, have misfortune, and also go to people who don't read. And the Greek school does a great deal of work to give everyone equal opportunities to go out and run tests. And it can be seen from the results, as in the universities there are worlds of rich and poor and of all Greek society. They are the children who have read and are many other children who are outside the university, which they have read, but they are a strict, objective system. So now we ensure that those who have read can be at a Greek university. And this is upgraded, because the degradation that children go to private colleges, you say, is when he knows he's going to go to a school his classmates have given white glue or have "1", so he has no value. Second section: It comes and gives the choice and that's right. I bring my own example. I was in public school, and I went to law school. I didn't spend the first year at my wish school. But I did, and I didn't go at all. I had put it and said what Mr Liakos said, namely: "To take the pass and see, I will re-examination." I ended up with a kid who was his choice for that school to go to college. So he comes here far beyond the bill and tells you that he will be chosen, he will have a priority that really has this school as his first choice. Point 3: Health care at universities. We can't talk seriously now and discuss whether or not they're going to enter universities. The controlled entrance would have to be voted on by everyone, because free education of the EITs is not about the other one who wants to set up an Exarcheia coffee, go in and play his backgammon - and make the fuss. It's about the world he's been through in school and he's in to study. Similar to that part of eternal students. Of course, the Greek taxpayer pays the free education and enables him to complete his studies. Tell me all of you who say that there is no police at foreign universities, at these universities, to which Mr Varoufakis teaches, is there any possibility of staying ten years? Has anyone lived this anywhere? But there is a possibility, with serious exceptions, for people who have a real problem. Disciplinary offences: Will we seriously discuss whether or not anyone who commits crimes and offences related to the university - who destroys it, break it, have molotovs in - whether or not they can stay students and whether the sovereign university will even be able to erase them? And we're on our way to security. In fact, in many universities abroad there is the police in the dean, which also comes under the police department concerned. Even in Oxford, you're talking about, it's a police station. Apparently, depending on your problems, you create your escalation. Because, believe me, Heidelberg and Oxford and Cambridge, who's going to the police without having a problem, should they hear that there's molotovs in there, that people are getting tagged up, that you're getting to see the drug traffic, that there's no way people can't get in there because they're gonna pre-collect him and they're gonna hit him, that's gonna be normal. The section of special guards, therefore, which is created, falls under the Greek Police. We must get rid of the fact that they will have to make a decision and then they will have to be the same ones who will be prevalent to those outside universities that cause the problem. And it's a measure that will work. In conclusion, I would like to say that you have an oblique anti-DAF. It's a terrible thing to do. If there were any parties at the conventions of the apartment houses, there would have been and you would have been disturbed by the SGC. You're talking about the famous student movement. Forty years is the first SGP. The students who vote, they vote for the IGC, and these students want the change. The other students we see here are my peers. I see a bunch of mushrooms, white beards and white hair, probably my peers, which I honor. Because the student movement, ladies and gentlemen, is also expressed and expressed by the elections. And the SGP wins for forty years the elections, because its proposals are for the student.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u36	Thank you very much, Mr. Pleari. We continue with New Democracy and Mr Themistoklis Heimaras is called at Step. The next triad will have a woman's perfume. It's Ms. Bryzidou, Ms. Biziu and Ms. Soulis - Viliali.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in taking into my hands the book of the "Social and Political Education" lesson taught by our children in the 4th grade, I read: "The State of Greece, the President-in-Office of the Parliament, is the type of democracy where the government-elected government takes political decisions. Democratisation safeguards with laws such as equality and the freedom of all citizens. Freedom shall be the right of every human to act as he wishes, provided that he does not harm another and respect the laws of the State.". I wonder how this student, this child taught by the elementary values and ideals of our democracy, will feel when confronted with the rape of reasoning, which today prevails in many cases in our universities. And I am not accidentally talking about rape of reasoning, because its consequences are confronted with the child when, after many labors and sacrifices of his or her own parents, he realizes that at the university where a small minority group is studying it is the majority. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of our children, when they enter and study at a higher education institution, want to study. Our children want to complete their studies on time and to be educated. The majority of our children are the one who wants to be able to. We, ladies and gentlemen, at least the majority of us, must create those conditions which will enable our democracy to be strong and applied everywhere, which will not give room - let me - 'bugs' to rape logic. The majority of the Greek people voted for the current government to implement its programme and, as the last-century polls have shown, the majority that supports our legislative initiatives has been widened and above government figures. Interestingly, the way forward is to extend the approval of the Ministry of Education's initiatives to the left. That's what the numbers show. 60% of citizens agree with the university police, 75% with the controlled entrance, 63% with the import base, 75% with the question of eternal students. And to them 38% of SYRIZA voters and 64% of KINAL voters seem to agree with the basic interventions of our current legislation. The majority, therefore, also want to ensure the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment, because by applying the controlled entry to the HEIs, the establishment of a security and protection unit and committee, the provision of an integrated framework for student disciplinary law, we give the facilities needed by the Rector authorities in order to improve their work. I come to the establishment of the University Protection Teams under the Greek Police. I want to be honest. I do not belong to those who want the Greek Police to be charged with the security of the HR. After all, this is not the role of the already burdened with many responsibilities of the Greek police. That is why I have carefully monitored the political position of a person whose opinion I very much respect. I am referring to the position of Mr Chrysochoidis at the meeting of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media. As the Minister said, this measure is the last resort to political choice, since the system has proved to be unworkable. Because the truth is that the atmosphere and the failure of the academic community itself to manage this situation alone leads to a transition, I want to believe, a solution. "I wish the police would not need either inside or outside the universities in a few years' time," said Mr Chrysochoidis and I sign it. The current draft law contains provisions which redefined how to enter higher education and define the duration of students' studies. With a ‘n+2’ ceiling, speed up the graduation rate, without excluding students who work at the same time or deal with health or personal issues. With the introduction of a minimum basis, we ensure the academic conditions of successful study and early completion of studies. We broaden the candidates' choices with the introduction of two phases of engineering submission. We thus facilitate the conscious choice of the candidate to study in a section that he wishes rather than in what he usually said to say. Ladies and gentlemen, in today's draft law no provision restricts freedom of speech, thought and movement of ideas. What we want to limit is the audacity of those who believe in their universities, those who are trying to spread their ideas by breaking, destroying, threatening, or mocking. They don't have a place in either the Greek university or the Greek society. Our government, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is indifferent to political costs and moves forward to bold and necessary legislation for our country. I've said it and I'll say it while I'm in this Chamber: people out there are tired of listening to theories and promises, watching innumerable conflicts with the dangers of self-evident. Let me close with a phrase of the well-known American theory of quality, Edwards Demming: "It is not enough to do the best you can. You need to know what you're doing and then do the best you can." That is what we are doing with today's bill, the best, because we know what we are doing and I hope that you too will do the best. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr Heimara, for keeping time. We continue with the New Democracy and call for Mrs Bryzidou on Friday, elected in Kosanis Prefecture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a very important bill proposed by the Ministry of Education. It is a bill that comes to correct difficulties and malfunctions in education. Unfortunately, however, not all Members have stressed the same direction in the right direction. In particular, I found a completely wrong viewpoint to several members of the opposition. First of all, we must decide, discuss and mention what we consider to be a problem for scientists and students in higher education. Our problem is that scientists who end up have the highest unemployment rate across Europe. 28% of Greece's scientists are struggling and can't find a job. A large proportion also leaves the country to find work in another country of Europe or even further away, and a large number of importers are leaving their studies and 30% is never getting a degree. These are major problems to which Greece is tormenting the new generation, tormenting the scientists, and there we must all turn our eyes and make corrective moves with our suggestions and with the legitimisation of important initiatives, so that we can make it easier in this direction. And how can such a situation be facilitated? First of all, by having two computers, because students who enter universities, other than those who manage to enter a school of their choice, the rest of them, if they have declared up to two hundred schools, are at random somewhere. The first day they're happy, because they went to college too. But when they find out in which schools they have passed, what is the subject of knowledge, if they are interested, if they are inclined in this direction, they find that there is a frustration and that, whether directly or in a short time, they leave the school. But that is too unfair, because they are taking up a position that others are interested in, and at the same time committing themselves to their own future. Thus, studied is the opportunity for the first computer with specific few choices to be able to go where they want and where the candidates suit them. Then, if they do not collect the score required, then they are given the opportunity, seeing which schools have a gap, with particular attention, to go to some of them, which will emerge as an option after an investigation and not accidentally and which in the course will disappoint them. There is also the process of limiting the base resulting from the choices of each university, which, by taking a percentage of the average of the courses of the scientific field written by the candidates, determines how much the basis will be, whether it will be at 80% or 120%. The combination of the base with the two computerized systems is the solution to the problem, because this is how regional universities are being strengthened, because students entered and had a large number of importers, but it was a virtual reality, which immediately appeared in the following year. Within three or five years we found that we had ten thousand invaders, but the students attending were three to four thousand. This was at the expense of universities, it was at the expense of students and it was at the expense of higher education. So this process comes along and gives the candidate the opportunity to become a student at the school that best suits him and gives the universities an opportunity to organise themselves in the best way. Of course, if we can and will reduce the number of people admitted to the centers, such as Thessaloniki and Athens, where due to the relocations in the course there is a large and unmanageable number, then I think we will also support regional universities, but we will also support higher education in this way. Now we go to the subject of the time limit with which students will study, five years plus three, and if they are four years of study at four plus two. I do not understand why there is a problem when a student who does not attend the course for eight years and is not interested in attending the school, whether because he has a problem with the subject or because he has chosen another route, stop this process over eight years and must be maintained for twenty years. If he has a health problem himself or his family or if he has to work, that is what is foreseen and may be given an extension. From there on, this procedure has nothing to do with it. It barely harms universities, but it harms their own students and families, which are unnecessarily troubled and without cause. The last thing I would like to mention is safety at universities. When we send our children to study, we want them to have a quiet environment, we want them to be safe and comfortable to express their ideas and educate. We have seen huge problems and malfunctions within universities. When something goes wrong, then we all go out and say that we are against harassment, we are against verbal violence. But when we try to set the limits to prevent them, we all say that elsewhere is the problem and we want freedom. Parents want security for their children. Students want a quiet environment. The taxpayer doesn't want the tax he pays to be spent on the windows they broke. Who has a problem, apart from those who are not students and who want to get in - now, of course, there will be an entry and a check - to react, to express their opposition to various issues in their own way? They're the only ones who'll stay out of this process. To them it's understandable, they're undone, and they want that law not to exist and they react. SYRIZA and other MPs why do they react to this law? I don't understand what the problem is? What's the problem with this procedure? The free movement of ideas? Today, in 2021, where every citizen through social media, from conventions, from the consultation committees can express his ideas and opinions freely? It's a hypocrisy. The Greek universities are high standards. Our students are one of the best. Our scientists are distinguished around the world. We Members must also stand up to this level and legislate in such a way that we can make it easier for them, which we will show them and, above all, that we will ensure jobs and prospects for the scientists in our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. Outside and together, it impresses me every time. We're still in the New Democracy. Mrs Stergianis (Stras) Biziou is called in Stepma, who is elected in Larissa. It has been appointed, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the University of Athens has recently become the first Greek university to rank among the two best educational institutions in the world. This is the one aspect of the Greek universities. The other is lawlessness, violence, smuggling. Illustrations which, unfortunately, over the last few decades have been intertwined with Greek tertiary education. Teachers are preoccupied, students are prevented from entering their halls, anarchists’ yachts have made their bases available to university institutions. At the University of Piraeus a poster was posted that praises Paul Bakoyannis's executioner and is ironing the son of the murdered man. A group of anarchists hung a sign months ago on the neck of the Dean of the Economic University of Athens. We will take many hours to record the incidents of violence and lawlessness that have occurred in the Greek universities. Universities alone in theory now belong to academics. In practice, they have passed into the hands of gangs, smugglers and anarchists. Indicative of the situation that the Rectors' Conference has also been forced to take place outside the university territory. The Greek universities should be centres of learning, research and excellence and only employ news releases for their discrimination. The fight against violence and lawlessness should not even be discussed in this Chamber. She should be self-evident. Universities are public property, and as such we must guard it and defend it in the same way as we guard every public building. Safety is a requirement for the university community, students, parents and all the taxpayers to pay for the broken. And those who adopt the arguments of the press "weak the self-interest of universities" or "the presence of a police force within the academic area will create tensions" or "the current institutional framework is enough to cope with phenomena" hide in the best of cases of naivety and the worst fraud. The best universities in the world are guarded and protected, although they do not have much similar phenomena. We must also protect our universities from those who threaten them. The state has an obligation to ensure the peace, physical integrity of teachers, students and employees, public property and the free movement of ideas. The adoption of measures such as the establishment of specific security teams, the controlled entry and electronic means of surveillance, aims to upgrade the academic environment, protect the asylum of ideas and academic freedom. We are putting an end to the authoritarianism of few minority groups, which impose their opinions and make the institution of the university abstract. However, it is not just the issue of university security that is the subject of today's bill. There are important reform articles, which provide a huge opportunity for progress in our universities, but they also cure serious pathogens that have been afflicting Greek society for years now. This draft is part of the broader strategy of the overall reform attempted by our Government for a more autonomous, free and modern system of higher education. A minimum import base shall be established. We have seen in previous years enter university students with an average score of "3" with an excellent "20", who will most likely never graduate. The introduction of 80% of candidates instead of 30%, which is the average in the OECD, has created students who are not qualified to attend university courses and eventually end up either eternal students or unemployed, who are not useful graduates. This phenomenon is also the result of the decline in technological and vocational education carried out in previous years and we faced with the previous month's draft law on vocational education and training. Because we do not legislate fragmentally, but with a plan and strategy, seeking a comprehensive, coherent and effective legislative framework for education. The Greek universities for the first time participate themselves in the definition of the minimum import base per school. The most important advantage of this reform is that those who have the necessary academic background but also the real interest in the subject of knowledge will now be introduced into higher education institutions, thus creating a benefit for students themselves, universities and society. As is done in most universities in the world, schools will have a say in selecting students and determining the basis for the introduction of new entrants. The impression has been created in Greek society that all young people should attend a university, regardless of their inclination and interests, their performance in high school and high school. The result? Degraded tertiary education, non-competitive universities and ultimately a shortage of people with technical skills in the market. And while there is a shortage of professional craftsmen, unemployment and the number of eternal students is growing. It is the state's duty to care for the reform and reform of higher education, since the university is closely linked to economic, social and political developments. The university is one of the most important institutions of production and reproduction of knowledge and is directly linked to society, the market and is a factor of economic development. We are talking today about a bill that only seeks to give the Greek universities the space to achieve what they can and deserve. The forces that support lawlessness, violence and authoritarianism are contrary. The great majority of Greek society, however, is with us and I invite you to vote for it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mrs. Bisew. And as soon as the Step is ready, the President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, Dimitris Koutsoubas, is invited to this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, all this time, on the occasion of the debate on this unacceptable bill, your government has put you in a lyric and tied to target anyone who has any objection, objection, and even reflection about the provisions you bring. This is a real shame! And it is disgraceful, because otherwise you are concerned about the quality of study and science. But the academics, the people who live, create knowledge, work in universities, students who are struggling to study, come in contact with their scientific and professional objects, you target them and deceive them. You want to say it just? You are building a university that will increasingly move away from the social needs, from the possibilities for the dissemination of knowledge produced in it, to respond to popular suffering, to anguish. And the foreigner the university becomes in these needs, the more you want to put obstacles to collective questioning of workers in these, university, students. You want to suppress the vindication and fulfillment of their mature, righteous demands. That's the essence of your bill. And this substance, unfortunately, has been prepared for years and the previous ones from you. They're also responsible, since you don't have the exclusive patent of this misery on your own. Because, gentlemen of the Opposition, the New Democracy Government so foolish and stupid is not. It maintains to the full what the SYRIZA government built before it, but also other governments before, the PASOK before, and builds on it even further. In other words, also the tuition fees that entered SYRIZA have maintained the depreciation of the diplomas maintains and increases them and opens them - close the regional universities and departments. That is why you are no longer very concerned, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that a possible change of government will abolish everything with a law and an article, as you were concerned a few years ago. You saw it in practice. Your work won't be wasted. As was not lost in the four and a half years that SYRIZA was in government. So many congratulations he has taken from the European Union, from other bodies, for his anti-education policy as a whole and especially from universities. Not to say about the changes in the way you are accessing, for which the great schools open up champagne, just as their hands were rubbing and with the Gavroglou changes, at all the expense of the children of the people's family. You, however, talk in a vibrant style about modernising university education, about preparing institutions to cope with the current challenges of the time, about reforms that upgrade all levels of education from downwards. But well, what world do you live in? But will you tell me who we're telling, really? To you, when you started going along the way to the future, without well-documented - have you shared university writings, while has there been the start of distance examination? Do we really think that it would be better instead of talking about upgrading technical vocational education with the establishment of English departments in the IEK, to replace, at least, any outdated tournament in the 1970s, with which students are supposed to acquire modern skills today? There's a mockery, too. You can see its limits. If you had the basic concern about what the overwhelming majority of students are facing today in trying to cope with the educational process, you would at least be more measured. Really, instead of invoking some supposedly objective, paid by you basically, polls of society that show that they supposedly adopted reactionary restructurings are adopted by the majority of society, did you hear better what students, their student clubs? Stop grazing and insulting young people who are struggling for their future for their studies, calling them outdated minorities, lazy and not students. However, since the burden of your duties may not allow you to make meetings with representatives, for example, of more than twenty-fifths of Athens students who are mobilized and tens of others in Thessaloniki, Patras, Crete, Yannina, all over Greece, we will only mention to you some of what is on the lips of thousands of students at this time. "We want to be students again," they say in every city in Greece. "For a year you have been keeping the universities closed to the educational needs of youth." In fact, a humiliating comment by students at the IEK in your announcements about their upgrade is that "so, IEKs have become universities, since they are a year closed". Do you know who they are that react and get angry with your anti-educational monstrosity? You know that. They are the ones whose strengths have been tested behind a computer screen for so many months. They're the ones who've been braggingly told that they can go back to the city they're studying just to get the house they lived in. They are the ones who, although seniors, need to carry out practical training to complete their studies. But you fill them with insecurity, because what you have to organize as a component of the curriculum of state-sponsored study, you transfer it to each other's individual responsibility. They are also regional students, who do not know on the basis of government announcements if their school will continue to exist next year and what kind of degree they will receive. They are the students of medical and paramedical schools, who need to carry out the necessary clinical exercises in health establishments and to them you have reached the point that, where they are carried out, they will themselves have the responsibility to protect themselves against the virus. They are those who are struggling for how to fill out the educational gaps that have accumulated all this time. They are the first-year students who have not seen the amphitheater of their school, in this school they went through. And the only support they find, in addition to the pressing efforts of their teachers, is the strengthening courses organized by the student clubs themselves, the ones you blame. In other words, it's all those who call themselves marginal, lazy, and that they don't want to be educated. You're confused, gentlemen of the government. From where and up to where in a pandemic it is irresponsible for measures to be taken to open schools to support students' multi-faceted educational needs? Instead of the ministry and administrations becoming tours in the summer and advertising their practices on payment of educational products, would you do something else? Are you saying to use the appropriate buildings for sale in the HCGI for the educational process today? Because the need to find spaces, which would ensure that students are adapted to the health conditions in the rooms, could also be covered by the huge real estate of the institutions, which even now you are hired to third parties, or by the various similar amphitheaters, which are still not used for teaching. Do we say it would be more productive, more substantial, to discuss the need to recruit teachers and other auxiliary staff, instead of being in a pandemic of less recruitment than even last year? If, instead of giving around EUR 1.2 million to enhance the sale of educational products to institutions in the foreign market, would you give it to improve schools' computerisation systems and enable students to browse the institutions' digital libraries? If, instead of sharing 20 million years of time for your university police, were you actually increasing - we say now - funding for the HEI, which this year is reduced? Obviously, there is no reasonable person in this Chamber and there is much more in Greek society that does not understand that all of this is realistic and respond to anguish and the will of the majority of the student world and the community as a whole. They are claims of student clubs, but they are stumbled on government policies, which address the current student education needs only as a cost. And that's not all students say. A number of beetles have notified requests to the government about how the HEIs may start to function gradually and safely. You, however, think about other things. Buckle up some hot money groups. In the face of these claims, then, you are doing absolutely nothing and the problem you are coming is supposed to solve it is the fields of lawlessness, as you say, within universities. In fact, you call on common sense. We tell you correctly, dobra, straight away: The various groups whose actions are hosting the student movement and very often targeting it, and you only use these groups to intensify authoritarianism and repression, have a close relationship with obvious and secret mechanisms of your state and not with student clubs that claim fair demands. These teams are doing your job. As for tramps, rackets, extortioners, remulators and interchange and other cosmic surnames, who without a trace of shame charge conceive students who are struggling, a simple internet tour is sufficient to find out whether the ones you eclipse concern, apart from the above mechanisms and groups and the various provocative groups, and the same governmental party in PIs. Mostly this one! They are the ones photographed every year after the student elections with pride and background of the well-known wretched posters of the SAD, which the party's parliamentary representative, Thanasis Paphilis, tabled yesterday, shows how much you respect women. Hypocrites and philosophers! So let the government deal primarily with its youth leaders, the various provokers used, and let other students quietly decide on their own, in their collective democratic processes. Ladies and gentlemen, you are talking about controlled access to universities only to those involved. Answer: Will students have access to modern laboratory infrastructures for groups, funds of the European Union and today only serve as attractions to institutions? Will students have access to modern sports and cultural infrastructures? Because those who are not under dissolution are exploited in a rewarding way by the institutions. Will students have access to new computer islands, modern libraries, new outbreaks, food clubs, or will this insight into the criteria which exclude the majority, the imposition of characters and funding for the creation of conferences, which have nothing to do with urgent educational needs? If you sincerely want to exclude access to universities from access, then try to stop giving the American Consul in Thessaloniki for a lesson. Get away from the foundations the various major executives of businesses. Remove these NATO research programs, made for other purposes and not to serve its homeland and defence. And you know why. Because all these children, instead of forming our children, are wasting university infrastructures, so that we can get a massage of the millions of research programmes. You challenge the people and youth when you talk about the need to combat the drugs that act on these sites. You said the same when you moved on to abolish asylum. We saw how terrified the various traders of death were of the allegedly drastic measures you took! The student clubs, however, have in their demands the imposition of exterior penalties on drug dealers, at the same time as you legislate them in soft manner. Really, the tons of cocaine and the hallucinogenic pills that are moving in Greece, through sea and land streets, will they be faced with the new repressive body you want to establish for universities? Drug trafficking is a business of hundreds of billions, whose circuits operate - with the police here that we tell them to do the wrong eyes - mainly in places where there are no universities. But your hypocrisy, especially for this social phenomenon of drug dependence, is unbelievable. Aren't the parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA, PASOK, who, in their policy of sharing drug substitutes in hospitals, have in some cases pushed into the dishes and criminalities next to university institutions, such as the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, who is adjacent to hospitals? It's obvious that other targeting is your designs. As for you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, if you think that you are being given by the Government of New Democracy and more specifically by Mr Chrysochide and Mrs Keramos the opportunity to present yourself as defenders of youth struggles, little shame. It's not enough the wood you throw into the students who were mobilized when they were bombing Syria at the time by your evil good allies, Trump. It is not enough on Friday, which laid the foundations for criminalizing the forms of struggle chosen by the student clubs. Your former minister's proposals are not enough for politicians with politicians in schools. You have now taken on a much more dangerous role. Where you stand, you are talking about government ideologies, which are allegedly not in line with the directions of the European Union. Mercy! You're kidding again. You don't say things with their name. Because in the European Union's reports, it is a key concern to tackle radicalisation in the field of universities. It also gives the basic guidelines for the measures to be taken. In other words, positions that run out of democracy and progress. In fact, Mr. Tsipras dared to say that the government is bringing the university police as a firework, so as not to discuss the major one, to discuss the elsson. That's what he said. I mean, nothing happened. Such an avata for his bill Mr. Chrysochoidis from elsewhere was waiting for it and from elsewhere he came. Is the university police the elsson? Where do you say that? The intensity of suppression and authoritarianism at the AIO is the natural continuity of the university made for businesses and entrepreneurs. No, Mr. Tsipras, you haven't been well told. The university police aren't the lasson. We say this straightforwardly: this bill and it will be passed by the House today, that all the government MPs will vote for the closure of hundreds of sections in the region, the persecution of thousands of students working at the time they are in the universities, all of this will not be implemented in practice. After all, university teachers do not seem willing to implement. And very well they do. This bill will eventually make the common sense of youth needs inactive, the common logic that says that, in conditions of development of scientific knowledge, each scientific object must correspond to a degree in the form of a whole, will prepare for tomorrow's scientists. This common sense is incompatible with the promotion of diplomas of different speeds or with the matching of diplomas of colleges with those of HEIs. Common sense says that the design of the academic map cannot fit into the narrow corset of market criteria, but must respond to the real needs of Greek society. In fact, answer us, where is common sense, when you judge young people as incapable of studying, but some of the young people, with the magical tutor and profit stick, are able, just why do their parents have to pay? And don't tell us that taxpayers pay for public universities - what not to tell us, you have told us many times in here yesterday, the day before - because, if you had a sincere interest in getting the money of the Greek people who are badly taxed, then give it to education, the actual education of children, not to give it to a few, in big capital. You are provocative, especially on the subject of the limits of study. Have you ever wondered if, over time, governments really support children who, for a number, mostly social reasons, stop their studies? What if there are student care structures for our people's children? You, who are allegedly excellence, do you know students of poor people's families who were studying and working at the same time, who have been late to receive a degree, but have they finally become many promising scientists, excellent among the excellent ones? [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Unfortunately for you, these young people don't only become refrigerants from the pigeon, but doctors too. And since we're talking about refrigerants again, you say and say that there are many social lifts in education, beyond the universities. Really, is that why you're closing down IKK, as foreseen by the law you passed in December? That's how much you care about vocational training? Is that why you're putting barriers to kids in the summer high school to go to the EIO? So you care so much about people who work and want to study? You know, we don't have any problems with these issues. We simply honour everyone in a number of respects as well as those who have not succeeded in excellence and degrees. Obviously the needs of society for scientists are not infinite. However, this is also the class selection of those who will ultimately study and especially the scientific objects they want. So, do you want students to enter schools that really interest them? Do what Gabroglou didn't do. Give the students the opportunity to provide a course rating for the next few years. Children of popular families can be helped by this measure to go through parts of their first choices. Do you want students not to be introduced with low degrees to the IEOs? Deal. But then you make good schools, schools of knowledge, rather than the psycho-corruption of competition and the various skills and, above all, do not limit their choices in computers. Because, apart from the barriers you put, you do not at all calculate that many young people in their seventeen years may not have been incapacitated on the road they want to follow. There are too many examples in this. Besides, the essential school guidance in schools today is the shortest joke. So leave it to many alternative routes and lifts. Marathon skills and knowledge collections with the track you make. This is not common sense, it is very simply the European Union's common strategy, which you all drink water in its name, to perpetuate the depreciation and degradation of content. And if you really are tired of high school students, their progress, their stress, who have been quarantine for a year, do it self-evident. Withdraw the Bank of Topics and determine the basis from the HFLs. It's unfair, it's anti-educational and psycho-corruption. All this propaganda of yours, supposedly, we know it well! The school and university that you've been building for years, where a life is decorating it with pleasant lectures, lectures that sound good in the ear, we live it, youth lives, our people live and have evaluated it, of course, since the grade is very well under the base. The new, the really progressive is what is taking up injustice today. You've chosen sides and we've chosen. We're with the students, the students, the teachers, the academics, who are fighting today against your bill. We are their voices, which were heard and heard in here and in the streets, and your ban is actually broken. Because the right thing always knows how to do to express itself. And the right thing says: 'I'm not afraid!'. We are with the youth that is suffocated by the barbarity of your class policy. The young people and young people of the country will also write the living, the best scenario of their lives, and it will be written with their real needs, their dreams, who will eventually find revenge! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u44	The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is then called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are arrangements for decades of trouble, others that are currently serving people and others who are opening horizons in the future. The draft law we are discussing today has all three characteristics, because it boldly responds to the time-consuming problem of university security. It introduces a modern way of introducing and choosing studies and enhances overall higher education, synchronizing it with needs and with the stepping up of the 21st century. In short, I would say that the reforms provided for in the draft law which we are debating today for the third day in plenary are in four clear directions: Firstly, they ensure the elementary ability of candidate students to start their studies by establishing a minimum admission basis for each school, in fact, a limit that the university departments themselves will define. Secondly, they lead the person concerned and the person concerned to study where he really wishes, rather than accidentally ending up very often, in a section of which he is most likely never to graduate, while at the same time strengthening the parallel way of vocational training. Thirdly, the arrangements in this draft law set a time limit for study, with an additional margin of two or three years, in addition to their normal duration, but also providing for specific provisions for university workers - to respond to the criticism of the Secretary-General - but also for those who have health problems. Finally, the regulations have been standing with maturity and courage in the face of the lawlessness which has been besieged for years by our universities. A disciplinary framework and a controlled entry shall be established. In schools, protection committees are set up with the responsibility of the regulators, while, where there is particular violence and infraction, special groups of unarmed but trained police officers will be set up. Not all of this has emerged, of course, and not suddenly or by accident, but as a reaction to an irrational regime, which recycles the consecration. Today in our country eight out of ten young people enter the university. This year we only had eighty and one thousand new students from the hundred and three thousand children born in 2002. This is not happening anywhere in the world. But, at the same time, our universities are graduating less and less. As has been pointed out by several speakers, and by our rapporteur, the annual graduates in relation to registered students are only 9%, as opposed to 24% throughout Europe. It is something that means that almost three out of ten are either eternal students or changing courses in their lives. At the same time, in our country the average length of study is constantly expanding. The four years that should be normal, with some exceptions, are seven. In short, many schools are actually turning into a maze between high school and professional perspective and many become dark warehouses, where they simply stifle some hopes of the past. But many of those who manage to graduate are not happy. In 2019, our homeland had the largest unemployment among graduates, with 14 full units from the OECD average. And yet, at the same time, 36% of Greek businesses tell us that they are asking for, but they are not finding, executives who want to, which means that there is an obvious discrepancy between what the labour market is asking for and what the Greek universities are offering. It is something that also proves to be a given one. There is no doubt that the Greek universities are mingling with excellent scientists. There are many recognized islands of excellence. But today only the Kapodistrian is within the first two universities, which is certainly positive, but it is not enough. It is high time, then, to see the truth, to catch the thread of progress in higher education at last from the beginning. For this to happen, schools must meet with their true destination again. The children should know what they want to study and be directed towards their real interests. The lessons to inspire so children can watch them. And, of course, day-to-day conditions to favour learning, research and free scientific dialogue. And in the degree, of course, to mirror knowledge and skills that will allow young people and our young people to claim a successful career. Ladies and gentlemen, in August 2019, speaking from this same step on university asylum and the conditions prevailing in Greek universities, I said: "The progress requires calm, security and rules. Our position is a strong signal of political will that there is democracy in Greece, which does not allow the few to determine the daily lives of many. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] "That, in addition to anonymous collectives, there is also the surnamed student, the individual personality of each citizen, and that the organized state must not let society change into a jungle where violence is commanded." Almost a year and a half later, I wouldn't change any of those words. In fact, I would add that the institutional guarantee of the free movement of ideas and the teaching and research activity of the HEIs is currently finding its essential equivalent, not only because the provisions on asylum, despite the efforts of the boldest propaganda, had to be supplemented to make them operational, as much as it is mainly because there are two contrasting concepts of the Greek public university in the end. Our aim is to give the public university back to its natural holders, the teachers, the students, the workers! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To do so again, to create and focus fertile reflection, with free and secure the people who serve it, the pioneer of the development of the country and not the island where the rules of the democratic state do not work, and the will of every authoritarian minority is imperative. Against this vision, what is confronted with? The logic of immorality, which in the end wants a living organism like college. It wants a conduit for the renewal of the party year and a spoil of backward guilds, which some insist on calling a "romanian student movement". This has also been the disastrous policy of yesterday: we are sowing schools everywhere, without a plan, without infrastructure, without funding, and in the meantime we are baptising offense. So the government is going on with two major reforms, two obvious needs of education, but - let me say it - and two perfectly mature demands from the entire Greek society. The first package of changes relates to the introduction and schooling of higher education, while the second dare finally deal with the real protection of academic freedom and the academic environment. On the first chapter, I believe that both the Minister for Education and colleagues of the parliamentary majority have spoken up to now and explained the obvious. It is not possible to have students with knowledge classified as "1" and "2". That's gonna stop! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] On the other hand, it is absolutely right and necessary for the university departments themselves to determine the basis for introduction, with weight in courses of importance for this sector and, in any case, with a minimum '8.5' guarantee of quality. After all, this should not surprise anyone. It was our central commitment to election and we are now coming to do it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is also unreasonable - and I will perhaps insist even more - that a candidate be introduced into an indifferent scientific sector, because he has just formally supplemented it in computers as the last option. It must eventually be directed where it wants and, if it fails to succeed, it can easily follow a different educational path. Finally, anyone who enters university must at some point end it. Otherwise, that loses its meaning. There is, in fact, a prestigious candidate for unemployed people with parts - ghosts, which cost the foundations, in the state, but, ultimately, they cost much more to the youth itself. I would remind you that the restoration of reality in the students' registers had begun. However, the previous government has restored the status of false complacentness, with the result that today the number of our universities' potential appears to be devastated by at least 30%, which obviously has a chain of influence on the authority of universities, their international evaluation and their fair and effective funding. Ladies and gentlemen, the second section of the bill goes back to normality and freedom in higher education. It also attempts to do this with an integrated framework for the prevention and early treatment of the phenomenon of violence and lawlessness in universities. From now on the responsibility for open and secure life at university facilities will be held by the Security and Protection Unit, which will be directly subject to the dean or the dean of each institution. This will supervise their proper functioning and maintenance of their infrastructure. It will, however, also be framed by a new structure, the University Foundation Protection Team, a body with exclusive scope, the higher education institutions, made up of Greek Police officials, without weapons, but with special training. Because, although now the police can intervene everywhere, when crimes are committed, action within universities remains sensitive. That is why it will be working with the dean and with the Special Advisory Committee, a new body, which will study each school's maintenance plan, depending on its specific characteristics. The bill also provides for something quite self-evident: the controlled entry into the higher institutions... [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... so that the students' rooms finally cease to be turned into heels of marginals, that the public university spaces should finally cease to become blocking exhibitions! The schools will thus close the door to violence, opening the door to freedom. Perimeter guarding by technical means will prevent unlawful acts, but cases of accidents or emergency hazards will be identified in good time. Finally, new regulations also introduce a modern framework of disciplinary rules into university life, because academic status cannot be an alibi to infringing. And a student, a teacher, cannot be excluded from the consequences that all other citizens have when involved in episodes or are protagonists in antisocial behavior. Why? Because no invasion order has a place in the world of progress! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Along with these clear, clear predictions, there is also a misleading mythology, which I think is worth answering. They disagree, they tell us, the masters, the university world as a whole with the arrangements of the bill. No, we had senator's decisions, we had a record of teachers and students with many messages from universities supporting our proposals. All of the extensifications accept the concept of the basis for import, controlled entry and storage, because obviously no one can deny the problem. Some, of course, also have their reservations about how to polic. They do not, however, propose any other solution, because they know very well that all the previous solutions that have been tried failed. After all, they are often forced to meet outside the university and, of course, to experience attacks, pre-conflicts and humiliating hostages at times. The second question is whether such arrangements apply to institutions from other countries. The answer here is positive. Everywhere in the world, entry to rooms, workshops, libraries is controlled and all around operate security services. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But there is, unfortunately, something else. Nowhere in the world we have images like our own universities, with historical buildings vandalizing, equipment looting and, above all, people being threatened, teachers being beaten, girls being raped, drugs moving. This is only the case, unfortunately, at home on this land. And lying third is the supposed imaginary threat to personal data from cameras. That's not true either. Cameras will be on the outside and only if, for example, an institution is bound by a public park, it will operate on internal premises, which the competent independent authority approves. And it's a chance to stop seeing no enemies everywhere. The cameras found the perpetrators of the savage beating of the unfortunate metro worker! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And very often they also warn us of a fire or an accident. Ladies and gentlemen, I support these measures. In no case do I regard them as panacea. Nor do I claim that, by themselves, they can reverse a regime built for years, under the inertia of all of us. It is, however, an important step forward. It's a move that wakes up and is a message that our democracy works everywhere and works for everyone. Finally, democracy means a state of the municipality and there is, I think, no more emblematic public space than that of the public university. So I reverse the arguments of the critics of the bill by saying that the police don't get into school, that democracy enters, [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ...the fresh breath of freedom, which has so far been left out by the molotov smokes, insisting that minority violence is maintenance, while dialogue is progress and culture and believes in democratic order, which prevents minority violence against the majority. Perhaps it is time, ladies and gentlemen, for you to understand that. The ataxia is, after all, classic. In fact, the current bill focuses on two completely opposing aspects of the university's social mission. They are visual on ideological foundations, which is why they lead to completely different trends. Thus, the view that education sees the reproduction of a well-established model, so that class struggles can be promoted, this model seeks to establish education and ultimately not to change anything at all. While those who want the university real strap social mobility, individual development, collective prose are trying to reform it so that it is a path to progress for all young people, a growth force for the whole country. The current status of higher education has given decades of exams and failed. He remained helpless and disdained, eventually expanding inequalities, as free education becomes chimered, with lost semesters from the occupations, with degrees that ultimately do not offer work, as they do not certify modern studies, and with the labors of teachers, researchers, students sometimes burned in workshops and libraries by fierce invaders. The richest, of course, find their way here or abroad, but the weakest are the ones who lose the opportunity to progress through their education, because this - and not their wallet - is their own power. And this power is depriving the young people of Greece of this sick situation today, who deprives the national economy of an important booster of development. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To say it simply, conservative is today whoever maintains what they are not worth conserving, while progressive is the one who wants to change it and do it better. Pick roles. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Unfortunately, opposition insists on the tactics of cries and silence. Fighting against rationalisation of studies and a lack of authoritarianism and silence about depressed lessons and eternal students, about raw violence and infractions in universities, silence guilty, since on your own days the basis of import was faded, students' registers entered the drawer, the universities themselves turned into cocoon bulbs. I would remind you that, on their own days, the Polytechnic and Economic University were literally handed over to extremism and to the common crime, permanent fire, drug trafficking, illegal trade, episodes of every weekend and with the government - your government - should be able to withdraw from the area bus stops and public services, ELTA stores and banks. The state conspired with the parastate on your own days. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It was a flirt with violence, which unfortunately by some people is still going on. How else does it explain that even now SYRIZA officials are defending Koufontina? Not any prisoner, but the unrepentant murderer of eleven people who, in his licenses, walk around the places where he spilled their blood. While even today your executives are organizing a coronary rally. Your Chief, of course, stated that he accepts the risk that participants will suffer from coronary disease. However, no one has given you the responsibility for the life of others to put it at risk with such complacency and security, of course, that you are vaccinated. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And that's not all. You insist on talking about repression rather than prevention or deterrence, as if it did not fit into your logic that there could be life without attacks and disasters and that incidents are a condition for you, an unnegotiable condition of everyday life. That's why your awkward inability to suggest anything positive. It is sad indeed that you cannot change at all and remain committed to your hooks and ideas. Ladies and gentlemen, in almost two hundred years of operation the Greek public university has always been a platform for scientific creation. There was a source of collective prosperity, a channel of social rise and atomic advancement. From the Kapodistrian University and its restless students, the question of Otto's regime began, which eventually led to his extermination. There he found the vision of national integration later. In the amphitheatres of university institutions, the National Resistance was folded and the Polytechnics was written the most emblematic page of the anti-democratic struggle. It is, however, unscrupulous anachronism to carry dramatic, historical moments of the past to a completely different present. Today - fortunately - we do not have any Occupation or tyranny to hear slogans about Nazis who have respected asylum, of Security Students, of public authoritarianism. All this is nonsense in conditions of freedom and exemplary democracy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Opposition must once learn to speak with serious arguments, rather than blowing bad slogans. Nowadays, the demands are different: to shield the public university from any dark attempt. To become our youth in front of a fascinating struggle, the country's uproar and the creation of a new prosperity, shared fairly to all. These objectives serve the potential of universities, which, in persuasive terms, insists on creating and progressing, as is the draft law that we are voting on today. In addition, as I said, it is our express pre-election commitment. It was a special chapter in our government program. It is a reform among many that we are promoting at the same time as dealing with pandemic. Because the House is working and, yes, democracy is not quarantine. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] From tomorrow, then, higher education in our country is turning a page, a page that will not be written automatically or easily. It will require the acceptance of the citizens. It will require the cooperation of all academic powers. If the first is given and the second is possible, then the result I believe will really be spectacular. Because the public university now has a compass, and it shows modernisation, extroversion and renewal, that is, progress. I'm closing down, ladies and gentlemen of Officerial Response, with a positive proposal. I would like to see a text signed for scholarships to students and candidate students, which at least expresses me completely. And I read: “Beliefing the cultivation of starch and a spirit of systematic work for “First”, a series of prizes for students with a degree of not less than 18,5” and for excellent students of higher schools is set up to contribute to the formation of young people for whom “loving excellence” will not be an empty reason, but an obligation to the nation and to themselves, offering to education and to Greece of democracy.” I'm tabling it, so you can keep it in mind. To prevent you, before you refuse, to explain that it is the text of the Lambraki youth that called on young people to take the lead in the fight for more and more quality studies. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The award committee was then the emblematic left teacher Rosa Imvriotis, the scholar George Vallettas. If you do not agree with us, at least agree with them, with the emblematic figures of another Left - with which you have nothing to do with them - even at the last minute to change questions about education and the bill, listen to them and vote on it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u46	Immediately afterwards, Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group, is called to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. It makes me appalling as to how Mr Mitsotakis' logos are attempting to get into a highly split position in this House today, which is obviously tired, disguised, dizzy, after three months of lockdown, into the second lockdown - in total we are almost six months in lockdown in the last eleven months - and he did not say a word about them today. In a divisive place he puts a cherry on the cake, and even with reference to his ideological opponents and their struggles for freedom, democracy and better education in this place, in order to supposedly steal or create the feeling that what he says, what he suggests, and especially what he does, has nothing to do with extreme - extremity! - the logic of 'Alt-Right' today on a global scale, with Trump's policy, not conservative policy, but is supposed to be a central politician. He referred to the children of the young Lambraki at that time, who at that time called them "sworn-footed saints", as you now call the young people who are struggling for a better tomorrow in their lives. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] "Pats", yes, "tunnels", "tunnels" who make demonstrations that do not think about public health, that have the courage to speak, have the courage to think, have the courage to dream, have the courage to claim a better life. The courage you have after this intervention here make reference to the Lampraki Youth and the Left for Freedom, Democracy and Education in this place, the great struggles and great reserves for 15% for education, from Prude in Education and not Sofia to today's great struggles of our time, which your party in all these struggles was across. I do not want to claim under any circumstances that we have the monopoly, neither the democratic sensitivity nor the sensitivity to education. But what you are trying to do is, especially when you were those governments - I will not talk about the past, because then they were struggling for scholarships and for education expenditure, but I shall refer to the very recent past, I shall refer to the Memorandum years - when you, Mr Mitsotakis, were the Minister of the Government who cut off all the scholarships and we had to come in conditions of too much hard and strict budgetary committee to increase the expenditure on research, to create the ELIDEC and bring back scholarships for young children, the excellent in our public universities. But I fell into the trap of raising the tons, but what should we do? That's right, it wasn't my purpose. If this was your purpose, you may have succeeded in doing so on a temporary basis. Because today I think I have the opportunity to speak to open ears, acquainted with the ears of Greeks and Greeks who are following us, despite the fact that they are deplorable - as I said before - and I want to speak about what you are bringing today as a bill and about the substance of the way you are trying to impose your policies, the way you are trying to govern the place. And I think what you're doing, the way you're trying to handle public opinion is really impressive. Even Orwell would be jealous of him. It would surely have created if he had imagined the pandemic conditions that prevailed since 2020 and then worldwide, perhaps he would have built the 2021 after '1984'. Because here you - and not just you - and other governments around the world are taking advantage of an unprecedented crisis in order to impose a regime of fear and surveillance. Everything that bothers you is dangerous to public health and banned, sometimes banning, you impose heavy fines. However, what they do not bother you or, on the contrary, any prohibitions you may need, but they bother you and your friends, bypass them. That's why you don't give a damn about the meetings and about whether the virus sticks or doesn't stick to the large workplaces, for example, and there's no test, so for the workplace, so that you don't hurt interests there, you have imposed, legislated the workers, if they get sick, to do a month of unpaid overtime. That's why for nine months now it's none of your business if the pandemic, the virus sticks to public transport and you need to dilut it, bring more routes, more vehicles or subway trains. It doesn't bother you there. So you always open the schools, as you turn them off every time, without more classes, because this may require more teachers and you don't want to give a shit about public education. That is why it is not at all annoying, of course, that you are barely being hollowed, when you, who should set an example, for the second time you are stumbling down on the omission of non-compliance and behave as if you were in another place at another time. You went out to another TV interview yesterday, and you didn't say a single apology. You told us, of course, how tiring your trip to the eastern Aegean, Ikaria. Indeed, Prime Minister, I am aware of that. Do you know what's forty-five minutes with the chopper, with a Cinook, which makes such a noise, forced to wear the headphones in your ears, go there, meet old people and talk to them? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It's too tedious. You may have canceled on Saturday and the tennis game you had to play or a trip to Parnitha for mountain biking. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Perhaps, I'm saying, it's all too tiring, but an apology didn't tell us, because this tiredness... [[Strong protests from the New Democracy Wing]] You're gonna sit down and listen now. The Greek people are listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u48	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u49	There are nine months in quarantine, and the Greek people see you. And you don't have to be ashamed of what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u50	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u51	It was so tiring, so, this trip you had to go, break the measures. You've already celebrated with fairs and cavalry batters the six thousand dead and you don't have to say and say a single apology for all of this. Why? But for the very simple reason. Because you have a sense of total superpower. You know you'll give orders to the media to erase all this. Something terrible happened the other day, Mr Mitsotakis, with your former representative, who you had to run the ERT. It's never happened before. Imagine if I had my spokesman, my best friend, run the public TV, what you'd say. You'd talk about Stalinism, about totalitarian behavior. You have instructed producers not to play the pictures beforehand, and you also have no idea what Mr Lignade's images are. Prime Minister, who are these others, really? And why for more than two weeks has Mrs Mendoni been trying to cover up a subject that was started in both the media and the theatre? Such practices have never seen the place since post-multiple. That is why I refer to Orwell and '1984', which can be done '2021'. That's what you did. That's why you feel like you can do all this without apologizing. And we have come to the point that you have the courage today to denounce me for a coronary - gatherings and the young people who protest and claim their democratic right to have an opposing view, as you bring a bill that breaks up higher public education. You come and you denounce me as an organizer of the barracks, and you say that I accept the risk that others will get stuck, with obvious smuggling and even alteration of what I have said. You're polarizing with make-up news and distortions, just like Trump did. In fact, you come to tell us that, because we are in pandemic conditions, you have the right to have a coronary party, but students do not have the right to protest and protest. After you have discovered that, in the end, the demonstrations and rallyings are causing the virus to be transmitted, because you do not take a European initiative - as you took the European initiative and eat doorways throughout Europe for the certificate of vaccination - and even though no 3% of the European population has been vaccinated, you are asking for a certificate, so that one can travel - and contact the World Health Organisation and say that the rally and demonstrations are banned everywhere. That's the problem for you, it's not stuck anywhere else, that's where it sticks. How did you forget, when in the United States of America it became the grand movement 'Black Lives Matter' and hundreds of thousands of people were on the way to defend the right to democracy, against inequalities and violence, to get a phone to Mr Trump, say to him: 'There is a solution! There is a pandemic, ban all and go out and denounce your opponent Biden, lying and twisting, that he instigates them and that he does not respect public health and whether the fellow citizens will get stuck.” [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That is your policy, though. A policy of extreme and amoralist right, which has never seen this place before. You're not a central politician, Mr. Mitsotakis. You are an extreme politician and a politician who is unconscious of how the average Greek citizen experiences today. This deep hypocrisy, but also the stereotyping, also distinguishes your policy on universities. You did nothing more in universities, in public education than you were planning to do in health. Your view as a whole for the public space and the role of the state is well known. And that's not now. This is our basic ideological contrast, if you like. You want to narrow down the state, public space and more to individuals and to the market.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u52	You have all broken up, Mr President, even the microphones.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u53	I didn't break it. The previous speaker broke it. I have no reputation for damage caused. Others have a reputation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u54	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u55	So I said that this is our basic ideological difference and it is not present. It's years of difference. You want a lesser state, you say. In fact, more space for individuals and the market. We want a strong and human state and regulation with rules on the market, even market support, when necessary. But not without control, by rules. All in previous years is the fact that your ideas looked modern and our own too old. The pandemic, however, is a new treaty, which comes to make absolutely inappropriate and inappropriate, I would say, these ideas of yours, which until yesterday looked like modern ones. Nevertheless, you insist, while people are changing, while common goods, public goods are gaining ground, while public health systems have been the ones who kept societies up all over the world - rich and poor - in public hospitals they were pushing and advancing - while the knowledge and research produced for decades in the major public universities and in large research centres was the one that gave us record time this valuable tool of the vaccine. Instead of aligning yourself with this trend, which the pandemic has finally made, you are insisting on your same bankrupt recipes, both in the economy, in health, in education and in the universities. And similarity is obvious. In the pandemic year you voted for a budget that had 600 million less for public health, and in that year you are reducing funding by 13% at universities. You also bring a bill to complete a very important gift - Mrs Kerameos and Mr Mitsotakis, let me say that they are making a major gift - in private interests, to college owners in our country. And the worst of all do you know what it is? It is that colleges in our country have nothing to do with private education and private universities in other countries, whether in the United States or in other countries. It's very low quality. And what are you doing? You leave with this law that you are going to vote on today, over twenty-four thousand students each year outside the HEIs. We will have at least twenty-four thousand invaders less per year. With what goal? With the aim of raising the clientele of private colleges. That's what you're doing today. And, in order to diligently hide from the public debate what is really your objective - and I have said several times to Orwell - you are opening up a parallel debate on an existing one, it is the truth, a problem which, in no way, is of any interest to solve on the substance, to resolve it effectively and effectively. You are opening a debate on the problem of infractionality in universities. However, what you are interested in is, behind this provocatively extreme solution that you are trying to give to the issue of violation and violence in universities, to hide your basic choice, which is, I repeat, the deterioration of public education institutions for the benefit of some private individuals. "Get up dust" in a few words, to say it simply, to hide from the public debate a contract of interest. You are attempting this contract of interests by by bypassing the Constitution itself, Article 16. It came Mrs. Keramea a month and a half ago - I do not remember when she was here, we have another example of a shrinking of democratic and parliamentary processes - in an irrelevant bill and she literally spent an amendment that exorbited the professional rights of graduates of higher education institutions with those of private colleges and required the Technical Chamber of the country, the Chamber of Economics and the other chambers within 30 days to register college graduates on their lists. Is that how you understand excellence, Mr. Mitsotakis? Excellence wasn't one of your basic arguments? All those who have worked out and worked out to give pan-Hellenic examinations and enter a higher education institution and have high-level studies and receive a degree in engineering or economist will have the same right to sign, with a night-old amendment brought by Mrs Kerameou, with all those who did not want or could not pass the pan-Hellenic examinations, but did their parents have money? Is that the concept of excellence for you? And that's the concept of social justice? Anyone who has money to have access to knowledge and rights that result from and who does not have money cannot? You know, I am constantly talking about the question of democracy and the parliamentary procedure in this respect, because I am sure that in normal circumstances such an amendment could not find a majority in the Greek Parliament, because the majority Members, from whatever party, would have reacted to such an amendment. But we have given it - and I said yesterday - our vote to the Secretaries of the Parliamentary Groups. So when someone wants to react, they must go through the crisis of the Secretariat of the Parliamentary Group, that is to say by the President. It's not easy. I am sure many fellow engineers or economists would react to that. You are therefore taking advantage of an extreme treaty, the pandemic treaty, which forces us to restrict parliamentary procedure and democratic restrictions to promote contracts of interest. And now you're coming to finish this. So you are allegedly cut off for the grades with which students go to higher education institutions and come here and say provocatively they go "1", with "2", with "3". How many are there? Tell us how many they are. Is it twenty-four or twenty-five thousand cut off by those who cross with 1, with 2 and 3? And in any case, if this is your problem, why does it not bother you that those who take '2', '3', '4' and '5' do not have to show any criteria in private colleges to be registered rather than the only criterion is the consistent payment of their tuition fees? Why doesn't that bother you? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would, however, like to try to make a brief reference to what exactly you are legislating for universities and what impact this will have on the middle of a Greek family. With the introduction of the minimum import base - which is lacking in education and academic logic, as the improvement in performance in the pan-Hellenic examinations is not related to the application of any rating cut, but to substantial changes to be made in secondary education, in high school, but in any case - what will happen, apart from the fact that one out of three is certainly out of the question? What will happen is to have from four hundred eighteen sections about thirty-nine university departments with student losses, six departments will have no incoming, fifty cities are expected to lose students, seventeen of the twenty-four HEIs will suffer significant losses. Who will they be? First of all, we will have an increase in the disciple of high school, much higher than we had in previous years and we will also have a reduction in high school graduates, due to the difficulty of introducing higher education institutions. We will not only have a problem with regard to the tertiary. We'll have a problem in secondary school too. We're going back to a logic of converting high school into a prothalamus exam. We will have an increase in the costs of the average Greek household for schooling, we will have an insight into schooling for all high school classes as a result of the fact that the introduction process becomes more difficult. We will have full - let me say - cancellation of the educational role of high school in all classes, given the emphasis on what is useful to examine. We will have a reduction in the funding of public universities, given that this has been linked to the number of students and, therefore, we will find ourselves in front of cases where some universities will not be able to do so and possibly lead to a gradual deterioration of their functions, to a gradual closure or even a merger of departments with many decades of operation. We will have closure and merger of departments and therefore a limitation on the research work produced by the Greek universities and thus an increase in the so-called 'brain drain', the migration of young and qualified researchers. We will also have a huge problem with regional universities, which are also pillars of development for many of our regions, with their deterioration possibly also with the closure of many of them, thus limiting their development contribution to the region. All this will happen as side effects of what you are voting on today. So they are not crazy, those who react to your bill and you alone reason. They're not crazy about reacting. They're not punk students who are protesting. They're not crazy parents and children who fight. They don't speak, they don't speak, because they don't have bodies to express themselves. The children in the third grade this year is whether they went to their school a few weeks to reward each other. And in these conditions of psychological pressure, you change the system of examination and the pan-Hellenic exams in this year, in the pandemic year, and you insist. That's what people are reacting to. But you do not want all of this to be known. And you and the media that support you and which you finance and all your logic are that the problem is violence and lawlessness. You have reached the point today, Mr Mitsotakis, that rape is taking place in higher education institutions. I don't know if you messed up with the National Theatre. I don't know. I've never heard of rape.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u56	S.H.I.E.L.D.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u57	I don't know. In any case, though, if there are such phenomena, I expected you to come and tell us today that according to the survey of "WEBMATRIX", under the auspices of the Supreme Council of Scientific Research, for the first time a Greek university, the Kapodistrian University of Athens, breaks the barrier of the two hundred best universities in the world and is located at the fifty best universities in Europe. I was expecting you to come and tell us that the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, which is fifty-ninth in the European Union and a two hundred-fifths in the world, is also followed by the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki. And the National Technical University, I'm proud to be his graduate, is an inch third. Why are you laughing, Mr. Mitsotakis? I didn't go to Columbia. I went to the National Technical University, but I'm proud to be a graduate of the National Technical University. What can we do? And thousands of other graduates of the Greek public universities are proud. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The colleges, for which you are legislating today, do not have a single position in two hundred, not five hundred or a thousand positions at European Union and global level. Most of them move between position fifteen thousand and lower. So here's excellence. So here's who really is cut off for excellence and who's invoking it. But instead of strengthening excellence, you are undermining it. So I come now because I will not avoid responding to the issues of the bill that have received the voice of the public in the debate that is being held in public and which are the phenomena of violence and infraction. I insist that you try to override the substance and that is why you are focusing on it. But you'll tell me: Yes, but isn't it serious? She's serious. Is it not a serious problem that in some public universities today we cannot hold a political debate? Not only do we see phenomena extremistly, like the dean of ASEAN, but there is, in fact, a problem of free movement of ideas. A public debate with political representatives cannot take place without fear with whom some groups disagree. That's a fact. I admit it. It's a big deal, we need to figure out how to solve it. The first government to try to highlight the problem was our Gavroglou government, which made a conclusion. You didn't like it. He did the problem, though. He made a conclusion about that very problem. We recognize the problem. There's a problem. Of course we are. And, of course, we are frustrated by the images of disgracefulness that are destroying the concept of asylum and the free movement of ideas, when, within university spaces, we have violations or trumpets, which terrorize either students or teachers. But let's leave hypocrisy, Mr. Mitsotakis, please, everybody. And we do not allow you to claim as a party the monopoly of sensitivity to violence, particularly in the field of education. It is good, Mr Mitsotakis, because I think you have sincere sensitivity to the subject, when you talk about the violence and the indiscriminateness of universities, to be credible, to have the courage first to condemn and apologize for the action and behaviour of your own student party in Greek public universities, otherwise you are a hypocrite. I'm not going to go to the very old past, when today's Minister of the Interior, Mr. Voridis, was running with balls in law. I'm not going that old.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u58	Uh, no balls, axes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u59	Chess, no balls. Okay. Or at the time of the murder of Professor Nicos Temponer by a member of the ONNED, Mr. Kalaboka. I will speak of the most recent cases of infraction, of theft and of the copying of the topics in the examinations, because this is also a criminal offence, up to the violence in pretexts and teachers, and - let me have an expression - a pimp in order to promote parties selected in the chorus. Or is that not the case at Greek public universities? Well, I, Mr. Mitsotakis, if I had made a minister of someone who had been accused of sending the dean of his school to the hospital, I could not stand by. I couldn't stand. You can. If I had made a minister of a person who had been accused and had also been deleted from my party's student party's party's party's graduation because he had sent the dean to the hospital, I could not stand. It would be a first issue in the news, in the papers. But you can, as you can do other things and shake the finger. Because not in the old past, a few days ago, a few weeks ago, you made Mr. Katsafados State Secretary for Shipping. What did Mr. Katasafandus do? Nothing terrible. He sent with other competitors the Dean of the University of Piraeus to the hospital with respiratory problems, because he wanted to dismantle a meeting of a elite body and, when the teachers closed the door so that they didn't pre-collect, they cleared these fire hydrants in the room, so they went to the hospital with respiratory problems. One day later, of course, the FPI, with a sense of responsibility for the academic community, decided to delete Mr Katsafandou, but you, today, who are portraying us as the person sensitive to violence in the universities, rewarded him, made him a Undersecretary a few weeks ago. You're such a hypocrite! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And here is the news of the time, the newspaper "Kathimerini" and the newspaper "TA NEWs", which had made it a central issue. The paper "TAS" then belonged to the democratic party rather than to conservative. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] That's your hypocrisy, though. If I had done something like that, could I stand? You're swinging our fingers. Who? To us for violence. In us, which we have never adopted, we have never tolerated, nor have we ever undermined violence. So, Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to make it clear that we recognise that it is a problem. What we blame you for is that you work on it, what we blame you for is that you demonstrate a provocative solution, which, instead of solving the problem, will exacerbate it even more. And the pretexts that are experiencing the problem in their everyday lives are not crazy, reacting and saying that they do not agree with the creation of armed special guards and even untrained in university institutions. Are the prestigious addicts to abuse, as Mr Chrysochide offended them last week? They're addicted to abuse, so he said. Give me an answer, that's what you think of the fighters? Why do prominent officials of your prolongation, who have been engaged either in ministers or in high-profile academic perpetrators, such as Mr. Souflias or Mr. Fortsakis, who was a Rector of the Kapodistrian University and a Member of your State of State in the previous period? Why? They're in favor of lawlessness too? Is it for violence? Do they support these acts of infraction? And let me tell you something else. At first, if I'm not mistaken, your government's term of office from the first legislation you brought was to rechang the institutional framework for asylum. Isn't that right? Yes, sir. When you did, you said that by legislating to change the institutional framework on asylum you would solve all these problems. That's what you said. So why didn't you solve the problems? If the government believes that universities are really centres of lawlessness, crime, violations of law, it can - because it does not bother her, there is no law to bother her today - send any policemen who need it and as many times as is necessary to relieve the universities of lawlessness. Why didn't you do it for two years now? After the abolition of asylum, any suspicion of illegitimate acts within universities is now burdening the police solely, which, according to the law, is responsible and no longer the prerogatives of the universities. Why didn't you? Isn't Mr Chrysochoidis efficient? Didn't you tell us you were able to solve the problems? And, anyway, if you didn't, why would they? So, the problem is, it wasn't a body of cops installed inside and it's around - around? Is that the problem? Tell me you, what other institution in the country - banks, ministries, stadiums, sports spaces - has special police forces, with police stations located in the service, so that universities can have one? If that's the case, you can also build from a police department at every bank store on the stadiums. Isn't that where we're wrong? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And, in any case, why do you not accept the suggestions made by the President-in-Office to address the problem? Because you are accusing us of 'you have no answer to the problem' and you will resolve it. Yes, sir. We don't have an answer. Do the bumpets have an answer? Why don't you take her? Instead of making a thousand incursions to untrained special guards and putting them inside the universities - that is to say set up silhouettes where there are often arsons - to deal with arson arsons with the silica in the universities - to create a well-trained body of thirty and more trained guardians, who will be under the jurisdiction of the rector authorities - so that we do not forget the self-sufficient of the universities - who will supervise and find out any acts of infraction or threat to life and, if they happen, they will call on the police, which can now intervene. That's what the wings tell you. But you ignore them for a simple reason, because you do not care to solve the problem at all. All you care about is provoke, highlight a provocative solution to a real problem, squash your political opponents, supposedly they don't care, and pass on the big topic today, which is the deal you have done with college owners and the twenty-four thousand less entrants in tertiary education. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Twenty-four thousand households, twenty-four thousand families in our country will not see their children through this year, realising their dreams. And who are these children, mostly? They will be the children from the Portuguese, which you think can only be done, they will be the children from Elefsina, they will be the children from the western districts of Thessaloniki, they will be the children from the small towns in our country, who may not be financially able to take care of them and the choice given to them in September is to sell out what their families have and do not have, whether to go abroad or, if they do not have so much, to go to these very dubious three-year-old colleges. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] That's what you're doing. This is a crime both against public education and about society, because what you are actually doing is to increase social inequalities, especially in the pandemic period, so that few people can serve. And you have lifted a helmet, supposedly of interest to you on the subject of infringence and lawlessness and violence in public universities. What concerns us, however, ladies and gentlemen, is that you can create greater risks with what you do. We have had dozens of incidents recently, as you hired - in a way that you know - when you were elected special guards, without training, patrol the streets of Athens. I don't blame these kids. But when someone is untrained and released with a gun, then it is very likely that he will fall into mistakes and accidents. I'm presenting to the Minutes. On 27 January 2020 two special guards were arrested accused of drug trafficking. On 21 February 2020, we had SADs to engage special guards in a fight in Ghazi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u60	What do you want to say now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u61	Don't you understand what I mean? It's all right, people who listen to us understand. On 27 February 2020, “The Special Guard who pulled a gun into the AARAE”. Do you remember that? It was February 27th. On 29 May 2020, ‘Special Guard in Esperidon Square in Glyfada’. On 7 September 2020, ‘In progress the investigation into the special guard allegedly involved in the blackmail case’. I have more. On 25 October 2020 in Perama, a police officer shot and accidentally killed his special guard brother. On January 16, 2021, a recent attack on the station chief on the Omonia subway: "In justice, the special guard who helped the perpetrators escape." I am simply presenting them in the Minutes, to highlight the danger of untrained young people with a gun in their pockets, possibly in degraded situations that may be found.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u62	They won't have any guns.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u63	Okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u64	Personal protective equipment will be available.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u65	Well, last night, they were special guards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u66	Okay, you can testify your counter-problems. I'll listen very carefully. I hope you understand, however, what you are going to do. Because, you know, once it's the mistake or accident, not many times. It happens once. It doesn't have to be done many times. In any case, what I would like to say, Mr President, is that at the moment the Greek universities, if they need anything, are supportive, is a political will to upgrade them. We also need political will to protect themselves from the phenomena of violence, and I have no objection. But be careful. In Greece today, in public universities, a teacher is counted for every forty students, when the European average is a teacher for fourteen students. At the same time, our country is in the third pan-European position in the proportion of police officers per 100 000. In 2020, the year that passed us, nine hundred teachers-members were evacuated at universities. On the basis of what we had voted on, they had to be replaced immediately. You have not declared yourself to be due. All you have to do is hire special guards. So you choose today to bring a law that reduces the number of participants, reduces funding, closes regional university departments, does not hire teachers who need universities but special guards. Mr. Mitsotakis, the same way I think you're facing the pandemic. I also fined the police with Mr. Chrysochoid. Not with the strengthening of primary health care and epidemiological surveillance studies, but with fines and police supervision. In the same way you want today to convince us that you can also deal with education. You exclude young people from universities for the sake of private interests. You reduce public spending on universities and, instead of hiring teachers in need of our children, you hire police officers. You believe, if necessary, that the citizens in all your attempts will only react and respond to the dilemmas that massly put them in the media that you are funding. They'll only answer the key dilemmas you're putting. If you think this is going to happen, you're deeply sleepy. And you know what? From the new generation you'll find it. From these people, who as much media as you can finance to guide and inform them, as many special guards as you can and hire to supervise them, you won't make it. Why? Because their thoughts and minds cannot be arrested. Their thoughts and minds and their dreams are not imprisoned. Their thoughts will always be free to judge and resist. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I fear, Mr Mitsotakis, that if you continue like this, you will soon have similar fate to those political leaders who have attempted a free society, such as Greek, to be imposed by authoritarianism and repression.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u67	Before the speech by Mrs Gennimatas, the Prime Minister will speak, who has asked for the floor to be postponed after fifty minutes of address by the Chief of Staff Responsibility and will look forward to the debate as quickly as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u68	Forty-eight minutes, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u69	Prime Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Tsipras, I have seen an intense irritation in your speech, unusually in relation to your latest appearances. You confessed to him yourself, too. You were disturbed, Mr. Tsipras, as I understand it, by the report I made to the Lambraki youth. I fully understand that some of the slogans of those days 'first in the courses, first in the games' are no longer political to you. And I pointed out the fact that another generation of "left" promoted academic excellence as an objective which does not conflict in principle with the right to fight. You are obviously no longer expressing yourself in this regard, hence you insist that you systematically and ideologically shoot the concept of excellence. So I pointed out the difference in my position. But I was amazed at the fact that you referred to swollen feet punks, referring to Lambraki youth. Evidently, you did the paraphrase from the "Austei worthy", which says "young people with the sworn legs that they were called punks". [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Elytes wrote this about the inherited youngsters, not the young Lambraki. You've been out a few decades, but it's okay. You're used to us in such unscrupulous reports from the Step of the House. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Because we need to be precise in our word - we have this obligation as public persons - I would like you to revise your opinion on 'debate citizens'. Depressed is the one who is in a state of total inertia and blossom or otherwise degraded. I imagine that you have said so at the edge of your speech and you do not mean that the citizens who are listening to us do not have a crisis in judging what they hear in this House and facing political conflict with pure spirit. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I imagine you'll have the opportunity to correct it in your dentistry. Before I get to the essence of what you said about education, I cannot make a quick reference to what you said about public television, which you accused of being a black propaganda tool, of hiding whatever governmental failures, guided by the government. I would like to make two points here. The first is that, in general terms, public television has improved its image over the last eighteen months. It is something which is also reflected in measurements that have been made, but also in indicators of audience, which, as I know, are objective. There is a systematic effort that public television offers quality content and has won with its productions many new viewers. I would like to believe that the issue of information also faces its responsibility as public television in a different way than was the case in the past. But I find it interesting that the criticism of public television and the accusation that it is a party phone you are launching it. You! The former ERT Deputy Managing Director - I will not refer to names, but he is a little - well-known - is today a general coordinator in all the media of SYRIZA, 'AUGY' and 'KOCINO'. The advisor to the ERT is currently assistant to the previous one, to which I referred, to the "AGEI" and to the "KOCKINO". ERT's Director-General for Information for your day is in charge of the online television that SYRIZA is preparing. And ERT's information coordinator on your day is now director of the SYRIZA Press Office. Who are you kidding? Stop hypocrisy! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You who had the ERT of Akrivopoulou and the Crying-Fried Party propaganda body on this issue have no political legitimacy for criticising this government! I am now coming a little bit to the issues of education. First of all, I would like you to clarify to me where this calculation has come from, that twenty-four thousand young people will be left out of higher education this year. From where this came about, since, firstly, you do not yet know what foundations the universities will put and you do not know what the grades of the children they will write will be. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] How, then, do you come here to the National Representation and sow panic, supposedly twenty-four thousand children will stay out of the university when you can't know? It is mathematically impossible to calculate, unless you have incredible divining skills, if your training at the Polytechnic has prepared you so much that you can predict what foundations the universities will put and what the children will write. If you have that opportunity, then please explain to us very much where that figure is coming from. And since you have focused a lot on the subject of the basis, there is also a major issue here: Since the Greek State offers Greek students the opportunity to study free of charge, believe or do you not believe that a student who enjoys this right, financed by the Greek taxpayer, must have certain obligations towards the state? And what can be the obligations of a student toward the state who offers him - and well does - this possibility of free education? I see two commitments. The first - and I think this is not just an educational issue, it is worthwhile - is at least making a minimum effort so that it can enter a higher education institution. Because the student, who actually gives a white glue and enters a section, despises the whole process in substance. He comes and says, "I don't care about me, there are parts for which there's a low demand anyway and with a white glue I'm going to go in." This is for us, in principle, not acceptable. If a student wants to enjoy the privileges of public education, he should make the necessary effort to enter the university. Of course, is there also an objective issue, if anyone who writes these very low results that we have seen, has the potential at this time to meet the requirements of university education? I have heard a lot of talk about the issue of eternal students. You know, in many other parts of the world students study and work at the same time. I can assure you that there are too many students working, studying and ending on time in universities ending in four or five years. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Since then and until then a student, generally relying on the argument that he may have other interests, must he be permanently registered and enjoy the privileges of eternal education? And you know very well that the statistics you referred to about the ratio of students to teachers are affected, are distorted by the fact that today in the registers there are students who have no interest in studying and will never graduate from universities. And on the substance of our argument, whether it is important at the moment to enter students into departments for which they have no interest, for the substance of our argument that we are currently facing a real problem of correlation between the education provided and the needs of work, for the reality that today there are young people who will accidentally end up in a department that they are not interested in at all, will not study and remain locked in this grey zone between the university and unemployment, for all of which you had nothing to say, not a single word about this reality, for which no one at present can close eyes. You made a reference to the question of colleges, that this government supposedly wants not to offer sufficient posts to universities to turn children into colleges, and you said that colleges are very low in international evaluations, which may be true. I wonder: All those parts you were making at night with parliamentary amendments, which you were making just to obey local pressures of your own Member, where are they in international evaluations? All over Greece you shared sections without programming, without funding, without a single project. Are all these sections high or low in ratings? In any case, colleges, yes, provide their educational services to those who want to pay them. But if you are so negative in college, I have a question, Mr Tsipras: if college graduates are so bad, why did your government, when inviting candidates for primary and secondary education, also enable graduates to apply and get it back two months before the elections? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Because you're a hypocrite, Mr. Tsipras! You are a hypocrite and from this disease you will never escape, because for hypocrisy there is no vaccine and you will never find a vaccine for your hypocrisy and for your populism! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This is about colleges. And to close with the question of how universities are kept and with your legitimate interest in matters of lawlessness and violence in universities. I must say that here I have indeed seen a change of attitude. This is the first time that you have come and confessed openly that, yes, there is a great problem in certain universities and this problem must be addressed. I wonder if this view is shared by the other members of your party. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I, at least, welcome it. I will not say that it is a misguided disguise, since we are now in the days of the carnival, to make an effort to look more modest, more socially-democratic. I will accept that this is a sincere placement, at least yours. How much it reflects your components is another matter. Also, there is no doubt that especially such violence in the universities had a certain ideological sign. I do not think that can be called into question. I think it is something that is confirmed and I do not think that my position is capable of any misinterpretation. But when we come and recognize the problem, we also have a duty to do something about it, to solve it. We cannot look at it, we cannot always be the recipient of a reality, which is not just unfair to universities, but ultimately undermines universities as the place where free dialogue is conducted and in which all views must be heard. The problem is not only violence in itself, it is not just drug trafficking, the trafficking in human beings. The real problem is that organised minorities in universities, a particular ideological colour, have insisted and insisted to this day that they force their own opinion into an area in which all views must be heard. That is the essence of the problem. So we come and say we don't find the wheel. We will do what happens to all universities in the world in order to ensure the necessary security and freedom of opinion within universities. So what is it we do? We're saying there has to be a controlled entrance. We say that there must be some kind of protection within universities and we are choosing the form of a special body, because, unfortunately, other methods have not succeeded in having the result we would like. And you come and do what? You come and invoke some of the individual cases of special guards to denounce all special guards. I didn't understand that. So, to all these new kids, who are out on the street, with the boobs to protect all of us, you come and say that, because some people may have missed, they may have made a mistake, they have fallen into a misdemeanor, that we can't get them into universities! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Shame on you! Shame on you for these children, which after all have been charged with protecting all of us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u71	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet. You don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u72	And the last thing we do is somehow be able to manage the visual image through a control system, using cameras, about what happens within universities. You told us that this was about something that resembles 'Big Brother' and we cannot have such practices in our universities. So I want to show you by closing two photos. I don't know how much they look, but, if you can see them, they're two control centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u73	We saw them yesterday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u74	You saw them. They're two image and information control centres. See you again, then. Where are these, Mr. Tsipras? Do you know where he is? He's in Cambridge and Oxford. This is the image of all modern serious universities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] University police are in many institutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u75	Another police and another university police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u76	Please, you don't have the floor. How many times do I have to say it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u77	You want to talk about university police? In all the American universities, there's university police armed, since you want to talk about university police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u78	Because they're all armed in America.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u79	Quiet, please. Mr. Philie, we're in Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Philie, we're in Greece. You tell me which country in the world is the image that exists today in the Greek universities. And when you find me one, you can come and ask me for an account because this government, loyal to its election commitment, comes to put order in this chaos, which you have created and you have maintained.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u81	Apparently, the Chief of Staff Response will be seconded for a few minutes. Mr President, will you speak from your position?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u82	From my place with a mask, what am I supposed to do? Although I'm vaccinated. But that's the way it is. It's stuck, they say, and with the vaccine. Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to answer the substance and not the krone in many of which you have said. You made a great, extensive, reference again and again to your first intervention and your second intervention, compared to those who enter Greek universities with "1", with "2", with white glue. Mr. Mitsotakis, based on data from the hundred thousand, about, our students, who each year give the battle to enter a higher education institution with pan-Hellenic exams, some seventy-five to eighty thousand are imported. Of those who have up to '5' are just two thousand, that is, you're talking about a 2% to 3% of the total number of importers. You are talking about a total of 2% to 3%, as much as the number of vaccinated today, which we are doing very well with vaccination. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You cannot, Mr Mitsotakis, make a whole fuss about this, say it again and again about the white glue, and I have told you a very specific argument. Those who are going to fail now - and it will not be 2% to 3% - will mean that there will be twenty-four thousand left - and I will explain why this figure is valid and may be higher - and it will be a very large proportion, more than 25%, of the total number of students who will give examinations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u83	How does that turn out?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u84	I'll explain then how it turns out. One - one - get the arguments. We'll talk with arguments. So those who stay outside because, as you say, write low grades, what import criterion would they have in a private college? Will they have their rating as a criterion? The only criterion they have is whether their parents have a wallet to go to pay. So you're telling us that you're interested in the issue of excellence and whether they're getting into public universities with high degrees and all of what you say about 2% -3%? For the 2% -3% do all this while leaving out twenty-four thousand and more students, who will be able to go to private colleges without a rating? I'm leaving it to your judgment. I come to the other point you raised: How does it turn out that it will be twenty-four thousand, as if we or our advisors are from no other planet? First of all, you have not observed - and I understand that, Prime Minister, you are, you have various tasks - the debate in this House. Studies of both OLEME and academics were presented. So let me inform you, Mr Mitsotakis, that it will be twenty-four thousand who will be cut off from last year, if all university institutions get the lowest possible basis. If in many schools a base is higher than the lowest possible, it will be above. Most likely it'll be more than that. Mrs. Keramos, because you know this is true and you are wrong to inform Mr. Mitsotakis and you lead him to be exposed, I would like you to tell us how many will be fewer. [[Noise in the Chamber from the New Democracy Wing]] You don't know that? Let's guess! You plan without knowing. But that's your puppy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u85	Quiet. Sprinkle your surprise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u86	Do you know who your pussy is? That while you have a very specific target, classic target, you go to throw the ball at the universities and say "they set the basis where they put it, it's not our fault". And to tell you something else, Mr Mitsotakis, since we have opened the very interesting discussion on class. There was one of the 1% of edu­cational higher education institutions. Do you think this should be abolished?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u87	No, that hasn't changed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u88	On the basis of this, however, Mr Mitsotakis is abolished! That's what you don't understand. You do not understand what you are voting on, because everyone from the summer high school and from the PSAs and those who have been working for sixteen years and are going to school too - because there seems to be passion and desire for education, and there is excellence, to these children, who now have to compete as our own, who are in their homes, do their homework - will have the single entry base and it will be the basis that will be laid down by the universities. You won't have a problem. You will say "we put our hands up, the universities put it on the ground". But that's what you do and you talk about the classics in knowledge and education? You don't even know what you're bringing to the House. Anyway, change it. The number of children who entered the night was not small - six hundred children a year is -, children of the biopale, who from the sixteen to the middle school and mostly had a good course in the higher education institutions of the country. Let's go down. You mentioned in detail, although I am surprised that I did not speak during my speech on the subject of so-called 'eternal students'. I would like the expression 'poolers'. I've never known how long they are. In any case, you claim to be the great reformist incision that will help universities. Why would he help them? I do not understand the burden they bear, but you have mentioned an element that you are not aware of. You said that if the pond students leave, the eternal students, then the student ratio to teacher will be drastically improved. Mr Mitsotakis, from one to forty, while in Europe it is one to fifteen, we will go to one to thirty two. Will that be the very big improvement? And the great, the essential burden is not, because, I repeat, these people are not in the process. They're out of the process, they don't charge the university, they don't go to teach, they don't even go to take a white glue to burden it. If at some point, however, these people want, find the courage, the strength to continue their studies, they find economic security to do so, perhaps we should give them this opportunity. Why not? Here the governments, the former of us and the previous ones, and you moved on, have lifelong knowledge, lifelong learning, lifelong education, the Open University. Why did those who went through some economic difficulties and did not have the opportunity to complete their studies so that they could not make a decision at some point to do so? So this is where I don't understand your argument. I won't be long. Mr Mitsotakis, you referred again to a special veil, as if you said a terrible line, that you found some terrible trick that we were doing, because we are supposedly untrustworthy, on the question of assistants. But everyone knows - and you know it - that there was a Memorandum commitment. Why do you do such cheap tricks here? For three years we have been under the strict surveillance of the memoranda - but we took it out of them - and had to maintain a regulation which provided for the Deputy Professors to come out of colleges. But we have just left the memoranda and the strict surveillance and the obligation to legislate through the troika, and we have changed that, Mr Mitsotakis. We abolished this and proceeded with the permanent appointments for this procedure. Anyway, and that's what I catch you intact. Now, I'd like to close two issues. The first, Mr Mitsotakis, concerns ERT and an incident which has never occurred in the years of post-population. I saw all the series of 'Luffa and Paradox' well. I didn't see anything like that either, I saw a directive in the production room about what photos they'd play and how they'd play a report. And, instead of having a phrase to say and apologise for that, a phrase to say or even someone from the administration that you have appointed and appointed to come out and take responsibility and resign, you come and tell us: 'Yes, but you have tortured the blacks', 'and you have done it.' What? That someone was at the ERT and then went to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u89	Everyone went to SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u90	You've got your man, your spokesperson, your staff, Mr. Zoula, running the ERT! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I ask you, Mr Mitsotakis: will you ask for his resignation after that? So I admit that all governments over time have been treating the ERT in a way that is not right. Come on, let's make a deal for this from now on. What do you want with ERT being so manipulated? After all, all the private channels of their scaffolding make it based on the findings made by your office. What do you want ERT to be so, but so, in a logic of manipulation, they put on labels and dusts and blankets who's gonna play first and what's gonna play second? So come on, let's make a deal. It'll be good for the political system. Public television is run by people appointed by the Committee on Institutions of the Parliament. They will be defined with a reasonable consensus of the two major parties and we will all apply it from now on. Creating a television that, in any case, will be an oasis of objectivity. Do you accept that? Don't you take it? Why? Because you don't want a piece of paper to exist. Not a piece of paper! It's so great your arrogance and arrogance that you want to control everything. Um, in the era of new technologies you won't control them, you can't control them. And Parnitha came out, and Ikaria and the champagne party came out. It's all out and it's all coming out. I'm coming to the theme of the photos you've shown from Cambridge and Oxford. The photos you've shown, Mr. Mitsotakis, are photographs showing us how new technologies can be effective in supervising. Have you discussed with a dean and refused that? You, however, were the Minister of Government who decided overnight - okay, you will tell me that they were memorandum orders, but you signed it and celebrated it - and you sent hundreds of civil servants, guards, from public universities and, of course, from schools. And the school guards and the universities. The Kapodistrian University was closed for months in strike mobilizations. So these guards - and to the extent that they could be trained better and multiplyed in number - could do well in this process of surveillance. Because both in Cambridge and Oxford don't get uniformed by police officers in this process, guards are doing it. And I close by saying this. It gives me an alley impression that you didn't even find a word in your second language to say about your student party. You didn't find a word in your second talk about the fact that you made a Secretary of a man who sent the dean of his school to the hospital. Neither apologies nor one 'I understand that violence is not one-sided'. You didn't even find one word! And this best confirms the claim that you are a hypocrite, Mr Mitsotakis, when you appear here as a defender of fairness and order against the phenomena of violence and infraction in the universities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u91	Mrs. Gennimata, who was stoky waiting, is called at the Step for her speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u92	It is clear, Mr President, that the Prime Minister has once again chosen Ping Pong with Mr Tsipras, because this kind of confrontation suits him and I wondered for an hour and more when I listened to them what the dreams and anguishs of the new generation might have to do with this attempt to clear up the mistakes and trabbing of New Democracy and SYRIZA's orders. I answer you: absolutely nothing. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] What happens is that every day it's getting more and more alike - they look too much! - New Democracy with SYRIZA. And it seems that a blue SYRIZA is now emerging, but it is not what the place needs, especially under these circumstances. And because Mr Mitsotakis challenged us for consultation, I would like to tell him that, apart from all that he referred to about the past, there was a progressive party, there were progressive people. The possibility of scholarships being granted to the excellent in this country since 1951, with Minister George Papandreou! And I'm filing it in the Minutes, because it looks like he's getting away with it. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] If, therefore, he wants to reach agreement on this matter, I challenge him to withdraw his draft law and accept and vote - and, of course, SYRIZA, but above all, it concerns the government - the proposal for a law of the Parliamentary Group, because there is a progressive solution to the preservation of Greek public universities. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] And all this debate is of great value, because it is under these circumstances. Our country has been in a repetitive lockdown since October and since today in a hard quarantine which has been testing the resistance of all of us and is intensifying the concern of Greek citizens. And here, at this point, we have come precisely with his government's tactics of'seeing and doing', with a government that does not prevent, which does not intervene, improvises and runs behind the pandemic. We had warned in time, but within its arrogance not only did the government not hear the bells that hit all these days before, but it succeeded in breaking down even the experts now that we need them more than ever. What, then, did we see, ladies and gentlemen, all these critical times when the cases went up? Responsibility recital. We saw that nothing learned from the mistakes you made in October in northern Greece and Thessaloniki. Just repeat it. Your decisions are taken each time depending on the pressures of the moment. We've seen half-measures and recurrings. Citizens are being watched by paralyzed people. It sticks to the virus if you're out of the store with other people, but it doesn't stick if an army of New Democracy agents eats with the Prime Minister. It sticks all over Greece, but it does not stick either to Parnitha or to Trikala and of course does not fit in Ikaria. I fined all over the Greek people, but no fines for the ministers and New Democracy officials who violate the measures. What we finally saw is that you feel that you are above the law. We have seen ministers appear in the media with contradictory statements. The Minister for Health said yesterday that he would propose to scientists hard Lockdown and that schools are an outbreak of dispersal, of course proving the responsible Minister, who insisted until the last minute not to see any crowding in schools, classes, and no problem at all in the way they were operating until yesterday. And, of course, we also saw the Minister for Development who was saying the same thing on a television channel. I ask: do the ministers finally propose to the scientists or to the government? Who has the data in his hands and how does he use it? I hope that the Prime Minister will be informed at least of what all the opposition says, because the overthrowing of the data on the basis of which his Government takes the decisions to impose restrictions creates a great deal of confusion among the citizens and, of course, strengthens the theories of conspiracy. We don't need these right now either. The contradictory messages undermine citizens' confidence. Together with your economic consequences and insufficient support measures finally create an explosive mixture. So take new, brave measures, not other semimeters, and the economy. The worker cannot live with EUR 534 for months when his obligations are running. Finally, increase the compensation - we have been telling you for months - to 100% of the monthly salary if he does not exceed EUR 1,000. The professional cannot be forced to put a lock on his shop, as the Minister for Development has cynically asked to hand over the keys to him. We need to breathe now both the focus and the retail trade. Make decisions at last. Do not repay 70% of the advances. Adjust and cut by 30% of their obligations. I now hear that other opposition parties are adopting it. We've been saying this for months, we've submitted it in the Minutes, we say it in public. And, of course, their insurance contributions should be subsidized by 100%, when they open up, so that we do not have any unemploy ment. Stop leaving the farmers outside and cover at last with unemployment benefits until the end of the pandemic the three hundred thousand registered long-term unemployed who have absolutely no support. The Prime Minister addressed the citizens the day before yesterday, but he did not feel any need, he had no sense of responsibility to apologize to them, nor yesterday in his interview. He judged them almost all well-born. The image that's transmitted - says - is the one who's wronging him after all. He forgets that it is the results of his policy that creates the problem. It is the same that causes anguish and discomfort, not only for the inefficiency and coordination problems that currently exist in the government, but also for his refusal to take his own responsibility at last for his successive mistakes. Apologies, Mr. Mitsotakis, to the Greek people. The authoritarianism of the Prime Minister strengthens and maintains insecurity and anger. He has of course found a lifesaving once again to Mr Tsipras, with his provocative and irresponsible statements on the risk of marching. I said it and at first, we will not watch this irresponsibility contest between New Democracy and SYRIZA. This error netting attempts are absolutely no one in Greek society. You should know that the glorious with the uninjuriousness of many media, and of course not only from the ERT, will be over quickly and then only the reality will be left. We, ladies and gentlemen, have not only been criticised. As long as the common enemy, the virus, exists to us, we will place great emphasis on our proposals to deal with it effectively. I would therefore like to say once again in the Minutes - so that I do not mourn you - the proposals that we have made for safe opening, about what we need to do now in this pandemic phase. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the Minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I would remind you that I have asked the President of Parliament since 29 January to have a debate in Parliament on a national plan for dealing with the pandemic at last. We have seen what was coming from that time and we have therefore asked for this debate to be held in Parliament in a timely manner. Unfortunately, the government has not responded. I therefore call for this debate to be defined here and now. The last one of the speeches to the Prime Minister - it is unfortunate to refer to this film - is incomprehensible, we will find it difficult to read it. That is why we need to avoid further mistakes from now on and above all errors that can be devastating and fatal for the health and life of citizens, but of course also for the economy. I come, ladies and gentlemen, to the draft law that we are discussing. I would like to ask you to imagine a picture of the future, because we have spoken too much about this past. They're always turning the SYRIZA and New Democracy headlights. The question is, what are we going to do ahead, especially when we talk about education? So, think that we have an essentially untrained special guard who is not responsible himself for this - and it does not need so much populism from the Prime Minister in his reference to the special guards, they know very well what is going on - who is patrolling through the university with a police rod and handcuffs, as the Deputy Minister of Education has told us. He's losing his temper, because he's getting a verbal challenge from some extreme students and he's picking up the club to hit. What will follow can each of us think about it. Is that what the government wants? Does this image want to establish within the Greek public universities? Is that what she's after? Create effective police departments and permanent patrols within universities, which will be guided by the relevant Minister from the Ministry of Civil Protection, with cameras in amphitheatres and drone surveillance? It's a deeply state-of-the-art and authoritarian image, which directly violates the self-determination of universities. In no democratic European country does that. Everywhere the security services are subject to and take orders from the university authorities and consist either of an institution's employees or a private company that chooses and controls the university itself. With this option, the government deliberately, ladies and gentlemen, breaks down the majority front, which wants to protect universities, but not that type of protection. Because here is the reality and the truth and the confusion that the government and the Prime Minister themselves are trying to create. It converts the question'safety or immunity' to the question 'Police or no police'. So it allows all those who want the universities to keep a clear vine hidden behind 'no to the police'. The fairness of universities is linked to respect for democracy and academic freedom, what you, of the New Democracy, are in violation of your speech. And who finally wins this controversy? In no case will anyone who really cares and trains to upgrade the public university. Under no circumstances can students, who are thirsty for learning and know-how and, of course, in no way can their families who want their children to study in an area of freedom of opinion and speech, where violence cannot prevent them. None of them! The winners, ladies and gentlemen, will be the negligents of security, those who want violence and lawlessness in universities and, of course, the fold of calamity, the artificial "New Democracy - SYRIZA". No more, ladies and gentlemen! This duplicate doesn't take the country forward. Finally, we need to overthrow the connections immediately in the next few months! [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] One causes and the other attempts to win from the conflict. One of the reasons why he wants to communicate in his highly conservative version, in his exaggeration, the doctrine "law and order" and the other draws the other end of the rope, he says, "Let things go the way they are, because I'm actually at the forefront of the party." That is why they chose this kind of debate in plenary today so challengingly that the two of them speak only! Because that's why they brought this bill under these circumstances. What else does this rush serve, to submit a law of conflict, without substantial dialogue and a search for consensus, when universities are not working livelyly in education, because of the pandemic, and students are not there? None of the two, however, offers a real solution to the problems that are objectively present in public universities today. There have been and there have been phenomena of violence and lawlessness in universities. There have been and there have been and must be dealt with. They are not everywhere, we cannot level them all, but we want them to be dealt with. No one wants to see in the universities images of violence from the past and the recent present, "bugs", "created" by teachers, fascist dean with labels, drug trafficking and molotovs, because all this directly affects the freedom of speech, research and teaching, goods that form together the constitutional acquis of academic freedom. First of all, our resignation attempted to deal with this with Mr.4009/2011, who gave the police the opportunity to intervene, but only to deal with unlawful action. This thread has had to be restarted today, the thread that leads us to the way of understanding and the joint effort of all those who believe in this necessity, because that is the only way we can bring the desired result. But the government has chosen the way of authoritarianism and even for the second time. It also proves here - not only in the pandemic - that it is not taught by its mistakes. It proves that authoritarianism is a component of both its ideology and its policy. They did exactly the same with the asylum law. They refused to reach agreement, despite our own efforts, and made a hole in the water, because this asylum law, which went through as an important, huge reform, which was an election commitment by the Prime Minister himself, and had to be absolutely barley - and, if necessary, passed, they did not apply it themselves. And they come and say now, one and a half years after they are in the government and having legislated in the way they wanted the asylum law, 'unlawlessness will end and we do not allow them'. Who banned you? Who has not allowed you a year and a half to implement the law that you have voted against with all the other forces of Parliament and the university community? [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Why don't you throw them out of the universities? Why didn't you even clear the streets outside the universities? You failed! That's the truth. Because it is not enough to be a 'Rambo' to have results. And you come today and confess that you failed and pull a "no" into your own law, as if in Greek society no one remembers anything, as if you were starting today from zero to solve the problems of the Greek university while it's closed. We talked to you then and you didn't listen. And not just did you not hear, but then you tried with black propaganda to twist our position. Now, then, you're coming back and it looks like the catapult gets to the bottom. We are warning again that the same fate will have this piece of legislation, because the logic of police rule is dominated. This similar law, which finds them all opposing within the university community, is not going to deliver, which does not guarantee broad acceptance and consultation. But no one agrees. That's not how the reforms happen! Ask the party that has made historical, real, progressive reforms that have endured the course of all years - why? - because they were supported by society, because he embraced them, because he believed them, because that's where the Greek people saw anticipation and hope in their dreams. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Instead of consulting, therefore, the government responds by attacking the republican authorities, another mistake in this generalization. Of course, there are precursors that have accepted or silenced before unacceptable phenomena and have not reacted as they should. However, there are many others who had the courage to call public authorities in their responsibility when they considered that they were necessary to protect academic freedom and university. The Change Movement clearly says 'yes' to security, 'no' to police domination, 'yes' to the upgrading of the public university, 'no' to police departments within the university, 'no' to police officers with clubs and cuffs in schools, 'no' to cameras and drones for surveillance. And the question arises as follows: Is there a solution? Of course, we respond, yes, there is, and we presented it. It is the proposal for a law tabled by the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, which says self-evident, what is happening in most modern European countries today. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Our proposal introduces the academic identity or employee card for the entry and movement of students, teaching staff, administrative staff in the field of the university. A special guardianship is being established with an autonomous organizational structure in every Ombudsman, who is subject to the dean and cooperates with the public authorities, as is the case - and I will not be tired of repeating it - in most universities in the world, as is appropriate in a democratic European country! Do you want to be something else? Do you want to do something else? No, we refuse, you'll find us all across the street. Their responsibilities are defined, as are their responsibility for notifying police authorities, in the event of unlawful action. All the procedures for observance and training of security officers are described, as are the university's ability to conclude public contracts with private sector bodies, which, of course, are supervised and controlled by the Republican authorities. And finally, the state budget with additional funding covers the cost of the costs of HSY conservation. For us, this is the solution, the progressive solution. Because it is not progressive - because it has come to us to learn from the Prime Minister beforehand - to turn the university space into an area of lawlessness, but neither is the logic of the imposition of a police and fear regime within the universities progressively. You're investing in a police state. This isn't the first time we've seen this. You have created a model that is applied everywhere. And where does that lead? You want to turn the police, which has democratised PASOK and reconciled with Greek society, again against the citizens. It's disastrous what you're doing, criminal! Ladies and gentlemen, it is appropriate that the government has made sure that the public debate focuses on the preservation of universities. Undoubtedly, this is a serious issue, but not the only one. Because we should normally be talking here today about a bold and innovative bill, which would do the great change that our country needs in higher education and in the field of education as a whole. The Change Movement believes in a substantial but comprehensive intervention, a real reform in education. What's he gonna do, what's he gonna target? It will aim to address the learning gap that exists, to hit the educational inequalities that exist, which have widened, to ensure multiple paths to children. This is the dominant, because through all this public education will eventually be upgraded at all levels. We are therefore seeking this new change. The results of the students' examinations should concern us and speed up changes, but not with a punishing perception. That is why we say not to penalize students, who eventually lead them to private education - whether they are able - or on the margin. The New Democracy is obviously not a priority for upgrading public universities because it does not believe in them. That is why it is limited to communication, the basis for introduction, eternal students and the issue of lawlessness. Nothing new. What does the government bring us today to discuss with its bill? What he was telling us in 2007. How far back are we going to be back? Everything will be solved from the import base and the measure for eternal students. The cart in front of the horse. They see the negative results of the students’ examinations, not only in the introductory examinations, but throughout the course, on all levels, which are disappointing. And what do they say? They do not deal with the situation and quality, especially of high school and its substitution by the schools. I ask: What will change the truth if we leave high school as it is today and cut off with a one-twelfth thousand young people? Not twenty-four, twenty-five thousand calculated by OLEME, should be less? However, there will be thousands of young people, if we cut them off from higher education, when there is no alternative to upgraded technical education. Where will you send them? First, build the right routes, upgrade technical training and then come and see it in total. Now you put them a fence and lead them directly to the hug of private schools. And from what we understand, this is ultimately the goal of the New Democracy Government, this is their central political choice in the field of education. Is it, after all, a serious picture that the Minister will arbitrarily come and determine with various of her own algorithms how students will be introduced into each school, without regard to the substance, which is what can offer and how many students each school can offer, so that it can pay due attention to its educational role? The answer, of course, from us is a great 'no'. It is challenging to try to apply this measure from this year onwards, without the government considering the major problems faced by children in the pandemic. This year's III is almost out of school for a year. He's lost half the second grade, and he's close to losing more than half the third grade. But there are also what needs to be done. Priority for us - we have said it many times and I will repeat it - is the establishment of the national disinfection centre, as is the case throughout Europe, which shows the presence of the student in the last classes of an upgraded high school and an examination based on the Bank. Secondly, a strong university, with a new spatial planning of schools, with an extrovert, linked to production, with innovation, with research, of course sufficient funding, on the basis of a modern evaluation system. And, thirdly, the upgrading of public technological education - what I referred to before - so that there are genuine opportunities for the new generation and that it does not only have access to any university faculty, which will not be of its choice or of private education. From there on, universities themselves will determine the number of people who can train at each school and the minimum conditions they place on the basis of the national sanitation centre. Finally, we believe in dealing with the issue of eternal students. We have, moreover, had such arrangements. The law of PASOK began to plunge out of New Democracy and completed the rift by SYRIZA. I would, however, like to mention the need for the university's services to check cases relating to serious health issues, family problems or economic problems, because these students in particular must be given a second chance, so that they can get through. Ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that, as it is clear, the Change Movement is voting against this bill. We are all opposed to this authoritarian logic of the government. We're against the University self-defence. This bill does not upgrade public education. But we are open to dialogue and we believe it is time to create a broad movement for new change and for education, which only the progressive democratic party, the Change Movement, can act. We, in consultation, continuing dialogue and with the people of education, together with those who are aware of the need to ensure equal opportunities for the new generation of our country, will continue with our initiatives and proposals to show what needs to be done to get the country out of the way. For our future, to ensure for the young generation the future she deserves! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u93	Mr President, may I have the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u94	Mrs Keramos, Mr Varoufakis has asked for the floor for five minutes for his denology. So it may be useful to answer, if necessary, both, as it was before you. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister. The only reason I get the floor again after yesterday is that I heard the Prime Minister use a rhetoric, which was interesting. He said that the police don't go to school, democracy is coming in. I am overcoming the rhetoric, and I would like to ask the Prime Minister and the Minister something very specific: the police get into school. What's he doing with the student's tables - I'm not just going to go to the SGC today - out of the classroom, with the ghatto blaster in the diaphragm? The policeman arrests them? He's forcefully pulling them away? What about a lecture invites a professor, a speaker, a politician, and there are students who are judging him? Something that's happening in all the countries of the world, as you know. Is the police arresting anyone who's waving? Who commands them to arrest, move DMG tables or the Conscious or any party? Where do they do when they push them away? What do I mean by that? I said it yesterday in my speech, but it is worth repeating. Ladies and gentlemen, the question is not whether there should be a safeguard for the asylum of ideas. We call it the Mera25 since August 7th 2019 in here. We say there has to be a university department for the protection, safeguarding, protecting the asylum, say it is what you want. The question, then, is not whether there will be a qualified guard in the university community. The question is a question of sovereignty. Who gives him orders? Who's he answering? Does he respond to the dean authorities or Mr Chrysochide? Here's the question. He said the Prime Minister and something else I want to comment on. He said those who don't want any changes to this university system are conservative. I agree, Prime Minister. I have given a little talk personally, if you will allow me - great struggles for changes in the university, like other colleagues of mine, regardless of parties. It was a cross-party effort to improve things and to fall into walls of interplay and violence from many party spaces. Let's go to bed at night dreaming about changes in universities, Prime Minister. It's not about making changes. The question is what changes we are going to make, because all changes are not the same. There are changes that lead to the destruction. Mussolini also made changes, but he didn't bring democracy. He brought fascism. We must be very careful. There are values at the university right now which we must protect. There is a danger that changes like those you do, Mrs. Keramea, will destroy values without destroying the misery that we want. I'm glad that the Movement of Change of the proposal that we made on 7 August 2019 in here, you made it a law proposal. We're with you and you with us. I also hope SYRIZA agrees to that. So it is a question of that. And since I'm talking about changes, who's gonna make the changes, not just on the subject of violence? For eternal students, for example, will the Ministry decide? Is that possible? Who are you, Mrs. Keramos, who decides what will happen to a man who works 15 hours a day and passes a lesson from here and a lesson from there, whether we should throw him out or not? You're putting a cutter from your ministry? You're deeply sleepy if you think this is a university process. Rectoral authorities and universities have to decide on this. We find solutions. I suggested the courses of study yesterday. Yes, it is unacceptable for a microeconomic theory to pass in the third year and not to have passed the first year. Support with student scholarships. What students have as data abroad and that's why they're running out of time. You come with the 'cutter'. Writing. If you go to any university of serious foreign affairs, the first thing that he learns, ladies and gentlemen, the student, the student is rule number one: We will cut your hands and neck if you dare reason. All students and teachers are slandering here and there is absolutely no regulation against censorship. And well-known writers steal whole pieces and publish them as their own novels. We tabled an amendment yesterday. Accept it, if you want to change, if you want not to be conservative and simply authoritarian. You're talking about bases. You saw what I told you yesterday. Do you want us to take you seriously? Upgrade the base, but impose it on private colleges too. Otherwise you're prisoners of private collegers. That's what you are. You won't. You didn't even answer, Mrs. Kerameau. There is a specific proposal, very important. All based on private colleges. Why don't you answer? Finally, I come back to violence, and I will address the floor, Mrs Kerameus. Yesterday I said you didn't deserve to be a Minister of Education. You confirmed that. You dared to question what I told you about the University of Oxford with a picture you also showed me policemen from outside. Well, I'll testify in the Minutes, so I'll close my speech today, letter from the University of Oxford. I'm reading my translation. The date is 26 January 2021. The letter says: "We note that the University of Oxford does not have a university police force and that safety at the university's premises is offered by the officials of the university themselves." In fact, underneath, they characterise your own policy, the policy in the Greek universities that wants to introduce university police, the Greek Government, as alarming and inconsistent with good practice. I would ask that one of my colleagues from the Secretariat receive the letter. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Why are you doing this? I can't imagine that Mr. Mitsotakis doesn't know what he said today was a lie and that there is no American university with university police. There's a security university service, where, of course, Texas is armed, because the grocery store is armed too. But it's not a unit of state police force. Controlled, paid, hired and fired by the dean authorities. An explanation to give. It is a report that came out of the WIKILEAKS and I will also present it for the Minutes of Parliament and will close here. This is a report by the American Embassy to the State Department, in which I have clearly noted it here to read it - it mentions the need for Greek Police to enter universities. It is one of WIKILEAKS. Please pick this up too. [[At this point, the Secretary of Mera25 Mr.Giannis Varoufakis presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u96	The Minister has the floor to answer. Madam Secretary, I'll give you five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to briefly mention a few points to which the President of the Change Movement referred and also to what Mr Varoufakis of Mera25 referred. I'm coming to the Change Movement. First of all, I would like to welcome publicly the fact that the Change Movement is making proposals. I think it is very important. I think that it promotes dialogue and we therefore feel that this attitude is clearly a constructive one. I come to the proposal for a law as such that tabled the Change Movement. What does this proposal say? Actually, that's forty years. So he says, "State guards at the universities on the dean's command." Of course, but this has failed. How much longer will we wait to recognize what has been done for so many years in our universities? He's failed. So what does the Change Movement say to us? The system in force to date, which the guards have notified the Republican authorities, and which they choose to notify the authorities but at recruitment, at the cost of the taxpayer, at the costs without powers. I think, therefore, that we have answered in detail that the solution we are proposing is for the very specific reason that all the others have failed. And it's a solution that isn't horizontal. I'm clarifying it here, too. It's for wherever and for as long as there are systemic outbreaks of infraction. Mrs Gennimatas has been mentioned in the asylum law. First of all, I would like to point out this: everyone suddenly seems to agree with this provision. Everyone says, "But why don't you rely on it, on which the police can get in? " SYRIZA says so too. But you have all voted against. Everybody! You have all voted against. SYRIZA voted against. Merra25 voted against. The Change Movement voted against. Everybody! But you now consider that the police can enter public universities in order to deal with such criminal offences. But you did not vote at that time. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Mrs. Gennamas asked why this arrangement is now. Well, there are three reasons why they have imposed this arrangement. First of all, the asylum law, yes, brought results, but not everywhere. There are objective difficulties in applying obviously to certain universities in the country. We therefore propose this regulation for three main reasons: first, to receive special training for this body, adapted to the specificities of the area. Secondly, in order to be able to act dissuasively on these phenomena of violence and lawlessness. And, thirdly, to make communication with the police organs even more immediate in case there is a need. Second point for Mrs Gennamas. He said, "There is no alternative to an upgraded vocational education and training." Why, Mrs. Gennamas, such a disrepute in public education? Why? It's been a law since the Greek Parliament. It has been voted on. The Change Movement just voted against him. It is a law that upgrades all structures of vocational education and training and brings them closer to the real needs of the labour market. There is an alternative route, but the Change Movement chose to vote against it. Last point for Mrs. Gennamas. He said: "A broad movement for change." We agree. Madam President, I do not know if you know that we were sending an invitation to your party to come and discuss vocational education and training before the draft law was published, and you refused the invitation. You didn't even come to the dialogue. So, with all due respect, I think it is pretentious to invoke a broad movement for change. I come to Mera25 and to Mr Varoufakis. Mr. Varoufakis, you said that I was deeply sleepy if we thought we'd impose rules on universities. It's not a question of what we think, Mr. Varoufakis. We have a constitution in the country. What does the Constitution provide for? It provides for universities with self-employed, but not autonomous. This has been chosen by the editorial legislator. You don't like it? That's what we got. To change it, if you don't like to talk about it, but there's a certain provision in the country's Constitution, the country's supreme legislative rule, about the conception of universities. Our universities are self-government, but it's not autonomous. Evidence: How are the LAG members elected to universities? Based on the laws of the state. They're being applied by the universities. They're applying, doing their chores, there's a process, of course. But the laws, the rules are laid down by the state. That'll say self-government but not autonomous. If the universities were autonomous, they'd make the rules themselves. Writing. That is why - I think the Secretary-General answered you for the first time - and within the bill there is express provision for 'prudential acts of censorship to have specific consequences'. Third, you think we should put a base on colleges. Mr Varoufakis, you say 'no' at the base of the Greek universities, but 'yes' to foreigners. Why are colleges? They're parts of foreign universities. So the government should come and put an import base in the universities in England. That's it. They're foreign universities. How exactly do you propose to put an import base on foreign universities? Let me say one last thing. I, Mr. Varoufakis, did not take the floor yesterday. So what you said I disrespected you is obviously not true. I showed a photo of it when it had been taken in Oxford and entered normal police to break the occupancy. I showed this picture. So there is a prediction that the police can intervene when there are such actions. What was voted on in August 2019 and your party voted against. What is happening, that is, in Oxford and voted against your party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr Varoufakis has been asked for the floor and immediately thereafter the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u99	I will need less than a minute, Madam President, because it is not worth it any more. Madam Secretary, are you serious? The old colleges out here get our students because they have an affiliation with an English university with GCE and the grades they get at the normal university in Exeter and York? Let's go check it out. We are talking about very low levels of introductory conditions, about getting the grade, the "twelfth", to get into college. If that was what you're saying, why would you have any objections? You wouldn't have. You just don't know what you're saying. That's unbelievable. As far as Oxford is concerned, you're not telling me how many times I'm going to tell you? It's hairy, my tongue, I'm finally beginning to be convinced that you really don't understand. Haven't we said a hundred times in this Chamber: a university asylum service at the university, which she decides when she calls the police, what is happening in Oxford? When people decide there was a murder, they call the police. When they feel there really is reason for the police to enter, the university service calls the police, not everyone "100" or Mr. Chrysochidis. You don't get it. What can I do to you? You don't deserve to be at the Ministry of Education. You should have left today. You misled the House. You said there's university police in Oxford. I gave you document that it doesn't exist. You deliberately misled the House. This is the feeling you have of democracy and of parliamentaryism. You have to leave as fast as possible, badly bad as possible!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u101	Minister, I have the impression that while you are not ignoring the evolution of things - I imagine you are not ignoring it - you are dealing with the story selectively and fragmentedly, and you are giving the wrong signals. Things have not been stagnated since the 1990s. In 2011, this law opened for the first time to address the asylum issue at the university and the New Democracy voted for it, with a large majority. It was in the right direction. When the problem went on, you brought a law last year. We did not generally vote against your law. We told you that your law does not address the problem and instead brings authoritarianism without result into the universities. And we suggested something different, which you did not accept. It turns out that your law gives no solution to the problem and you appear today with an even more authoritarian law to make police in universities, which is nowhere in the world and which is not in any logical institution that negotiates knowledge, research, freedom of thought, pluralism of ideas. You guys are so up-to-date and prototype that you want to put the police at the universities? You said about the proposal, ours, that it does not provide a solution. It's giving a wonderful solution. Let me tell you on what conditions, though. The solution given by the proposal is precisely to tackle the problem today and, at the same time, to make a great reform effort so that the student's actual performance can no longer be linked at a time and not at a time, with his entry into the university, in order to upgrade the study. We have a completely different concept of what reform means. You're the reformer who thinks it in faces. They cannot do their job, which the law tells them to do, and you say that you are abolishing the dean's participation in this process and giving control to the Minister of Public Order. To interfere with the Minister of Public Order at the university, to replace the dean's weakness. This is counter-reformation. It's a dismantling of the institution. Reform is to bring the institution in a position to do this. We therefore say that, in addition to the general debate that needs to be held on the relationship between secondary education and entry to universities, it is necessary for the university today to assume their powers under criminal and civil liability. That means, in other words, obliging the dean to do her job. So what's he elected for? He collects votes and begs parties to help them out beforehand. It is also the reform that we are proposing, that is to say, that we go further than what has not been done and that we deal with it effectively and give him the opportunity of the dean through the process of safeguarding the property to exercise his right, that the police have the right to intervene in illegitimate acts. What else does he need? If anything needs to be done, it is to solve the dean's problem, and the dean is forced to do his job, which is why he is elected. But you go backwards. You want to punish the faces and get Chrysochide to decide about the university. It is fundamental that the difference between a progressive reform that takes the institution further and into a deregulation and counter-reformation that is "tooth pains, cut head".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. I would like to apologise to Mrs Villali, because I will give the floor to Mr Katrin, because she has to go to the Conference of Presidents, and immediately thereafter she will take the floor. Here you go, Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u103	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, if anyone was listening to the debate in this House today without knowing the subject, he would believe that the bill concerns the reform of penitentiary institutions or the dissolution of criminal organisations and not that we are talking about the institutions that will nurture tomorrow's scientists, our children's teachers, company officials or future politicians. Because the feeling that dominates is that one side presents universities as a man of criminals and the other as revolutionary nuclei. The debate itself is an insult to the thousands of Greek students and graduates of Greek universities, it is an insult to students who read on the night in order to obtain their admission to an institution, it is an insult to the country itself. We know, of course, that the government's enthusiasm is to reduce public universities to such an extent that the only solution to the overdevelopment of private education for the elite of the best. In this climate, on August 8, 2019, just a month after the national elections, Greek society, tired of the rule of SYRIZA, hears the Prime Minister announce in this Chamber that we are finally ending with the asylum of lawlessness, being occupied by the Members of the New Democracy in the festive post-election climate. In fact, Members and Ministers of the New Democracy are rushing to triumphantly triumph for the removal of foreign small shops outside the ASEAN as proof of the immediate application of the bill. Today, eighteen months later, Greek society is watching the Minister of Education declare with about the same veil as in August 2019 that it is time for universities to be released from lawlessness. And I wonder: What has happened over the past year and a half, since society needs to hear the same slogan, from the same ministers, from the same government? What happened these eighteen months? Have you made self-criticism, gentlemen of the government, why has the law that you brought and voted on not work? Ladies and gentlemen, in these eighteen months we have seen dozens of cases of violence in the Greek universities, incidents similar to those affecting the Greek universities and the country for decades and have been justified or covered by university authorities and political parties. The Minister of Citizen Protection describes the establishment of the university police as "the present refuge and not the ideological choice", expressing the government's will to break off the violations, since only the police can. But can Mr Chrysochide convince us about what he's saying? What did Mr Chrysochoidis do eighteen months to prevent such incidents? I'm afraid he didn't do anything when he was supposed to. Impressive action after a celebration. I find it difficult, ladies and gentlemen, to find in the total of seven years of Mr Chrysochide's term of office in the Ministry of Public Order, even an intervention by the police in cases of violence at universities, in accordance with the existing legislation, except in 2002 at the University of Crete, where the police intervened not to eradicate violations, as the Minister says today, but to eradicate a sassomy found on a forest area of the university, having been accidentally identified by a helicopter of the Greek police. I remember, on the other hand, the police's dynamic intervention in the course of the infamous now Sifi Valyrakis in 1995 in order not to burn down the polytechnics, the decision of the Rector Stethopoulos in 1985 with the occupation of the Chemistry, with Kyriakos Georgopoulos being the last student representative at the Republican Council of the University of Athens from 1985 until today. These are for the student movement, which the speaker has served. So, since 2019, we have disagreed with the preventive presence of the police in universities as ineffective, as it proved to be superfluous and insist today, respecting the self-employed and proposing the setting up of a special body of specialised guards, which will ensure the safe operation of the university with its administrations and prerogatives to be shielded but also accountable, now, to prevent incidents of violence and vandalism in the Greek universities. Far from choices throwing oil into the fire, without bringing results, choices that serve polarization strategy with SYRIZA alone. And I fear that the images we have seen yesterday and today, with unprecedented incidents of violence in the rally, are images of the future that we will see in the Greek universities, because some should justify their existence and professional development. At the same time that thousands of professionals are being destroyed because of restrictive measures and a closed market, there are symposia of those who react to the law, which the government knew and, apparently, sought to provoke. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today does not actually reform anything. She's just closing her eye on the government's conservative clientele, triggering her reflexes. In this draft law, the Government is trying to close university departments through the backdrop, by establishing and directly applying the minimum import base and not by making a substantial assessment of the departments within a national spatial planning of educational structures. It is something that we too feel very strongly in Elias, since even the only kind of Museology Department in the Tower is treated with unprecedented indifference by the Ministry of Education, following on from the indifference of the previous dectorial authority. We in the Change Movement insist and we will insist on the National Dismissal with the Bank of Issues, a choice that marks the end of a distorted system, which only perceives high school as a preparatory process for introducing into universities, fuelling an asymmetrical circle of misconduct. You reduce social mobility, without any connection to vocational education, without having solved the issue of professional rights at the various levels of education and encourage pupils to follow paths uncertain for their future. We want university degrees which provide scientific supplies and essential qualifications, which correspond to the new data from the economy and from work. Moreover, real innovation, as they say at MIT, is the product of discovery on its economic value. If either is zero, then the result is zero. Ladies and gentlemen, on the grounds that investment in education gives the best interest and that public university education is a major social investment and not an unnecessary cost, as you are letting it be understood, we cannot agree either on the tooling of education for micro-party purposes or on your communication need to baptise this draft law, which we are voting against. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mrs Villali has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u105	I would ask you, Madam President, from the outset, for before I begin my speech here, from the cradle of democracy, to send a clear message to the male perpetrators of yesterday's attack on my political office in Corinth. Democracy is not intimidated, intimidated, and it certainly does not retreat. I have complete confidence in both the prosecution authorities and in justice that they will actually do their work successfully. As far as I am concerned, I will continue to fight for the forging of the concepts of solidarity, justice, the creation of space even in other voices and in other points of view and, above all, of deep love for the fellowman. This is the best response to democracy and I think that is the way to the unity that Greek society needs. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called upon to adopt the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs bill to upgrade the educational process in higher education. It is a bill that is yet another example of practical commitment to our election commitments. Because the government consistently continues, in the midst of a murder pandemic, to promote our reform agenda, for the benefit of all citizens, consistently strengthening social confidence internally and also by treating the credibility of our country abroad. Education, of course, could not be an exception to our specific political practice. Of course, we must admit that, with the same - perhaps greater - consistency, the Civic Opposition continues - to have an opposition that will allow me to call it'reflecting despair', as it moves in the sphere of bipolarism but also of irresistible populism, with a view of course always looking at the polluting units, which it thinks may arise, but which it never comes. This also bears witness to the unacceptable statement made by your President, who, while a little while ago accusing us of windstorming, once again proves, in these statements, in the most glamorous way your own political amoracism. But that is something that Greek society now knows. But the difficult time faced by our country and the whole world leaves us no room for reassurance and concern with the micro-political rhetoric of SYRIZA. In front of us we have the effective treatment of the pandemic and the creation of the conditions for exploiting any development opportunity that will help us to overcome this grim situation more quickly. Education must have and will play a leading role the next day, the day after the pandemic. This day we will have to find our universities ready to compete effectively with the challenges of tomorrow, where issues of the digital transition, of the green economy, of climate change will dominate global and also domestically, in the most imperative way. And, yes, both academic staff and our students are able to lead and play a leading role in this key adjustment that they experience at every level of economic and social life. And while the specific challenges are huge for anyone who can actually see the effects of such reclassification, we are still discussing whether the academic environment should be exclusively an area of free movement of ideas and knowledge and not sometimes an area of infraction and lawlessness. So this debate is obsolete, ladies and gentlemen, and the vast majority of academics, students and Greek society want to see effective acts so that the illegality phenomena are finally extinguished by the Greek universities. The same is true of eternal students, that is to say, an issue that foreign education institutions have solved for decades, recognizing that academic programmes are not based on an open end process, that is, an open end, and in the end, I believe that anyone who defends exactly the opposite is intended solely to care for the ears of a privileged party. And you know, ladies and gentlemen, you have every right to do so, mainly because of your internal-party hostages. But at least not to ask yourself why you are and why you will remain in the country's social and political margin. Minister, I would like to focus on a point of the bill that is crucial to me personally and which comes to perfect supplement the draft law on the upgrading of vocational training that we voted on in December. I would like to focus on the provision for establishing a minimum import base and the possibility of submitting a parallel computerised prospectus to provide a public IEK. And I would like to focus not only on the perspective of the real positive effects of the regulation on ensuring the academic conditions of successful study and the timely integration of studies. In particular, I would like to focus on the perspective that for the first time and in practice the Greek state pushes our young people and young people into consciously thinking about all their educational choices according to their talents and real expectations for their professional and social future. And we can now assure them that there is a framework of high quality choices that will offer them critical skills both for themselves and for society as a whole. With this bill, we break the stereotypes that accompany other options, beyond the university road. We are blocking the voices of supposedly socially sensitive people, who consider that every other route of social elevation is rejected. We break the social myths that Greek society needs only doctors, lawyers or engineers and we pass a clear message, that for the well-being of society as important as professionals in tourism or rural entrepreneurship, for example. And yes, this does not conflict with the desire of our youth nor with the desire of the Greek state for educated citizens seeking education, seeking their personal maturation and development. The quality of the choices offered by an educational system as a whole to young people, especially in order to achieve their personal achievements, is a quality indicator for every modern European state. This sample is presented today to the Greek Parliament with courage and determination, and I am sure that it welcomes it, in addition to the majority of the Greek Parliament, the majority of Greek society and, in particular, the majority of Greek youth, which we fully trust as capable and worthy of turning the present into an even more creative future for homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, my colleague. Mr Constantinidis has the floor now from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Madam President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, what you cannot challenge the Mitsotakis Government is that it implements its day-to-day programme, even in the most unfavourable circumstances. It is not only the vast legislative work it has produced. It is mainly that it has dared to raise issues of taboo for our country, that is to say, areas in which the reform procedures at times have always been confronted with unresolved denials and which were eventually exhausted into unresolved interventions. At the same time that other states have refined their institutional framework, made use of the best practices, gained positions in international rankings and gained multiple benefits, in our country the education sector and especially higher education was a field of political conflicts, controversy, in terms and phrases of early post-multipleism. In any relevant debate, the Left put unblemished positions, class divisions and ideological stereotypes, which leads to a dead end. How, though, can one overcome this? With courage, I am convinced, with realism, with determination, of the elements of the legislative initiative to be voted on and of the political leadership of the Ministry of Education. But is this a reform? Undoubtedly. It forms new terms, new environment and a new concept of higher education. It is in line with and in relation to complementarity with other legislation of the current government, with regard to vocational education and training and university asylum. It also has full democratic legitimacy, not only because it presupposes a strong parliamentary majority or because it has been an explicit commitment from the current government, but also because, as it turns out, it has a wide social acceptance. For example, according to a recent survey, 60.5% of respondents want university police, 75.1% is in favour of controlled entry into universities, 63.1% agrees with the special import base, 75.1% accepts the time limit for completing the course. There are therefore very high percentages of acceptance, even among the voters of the opposition. And how could it be different, ladies and gentlemen, after so many images of violence we have seen at the Greek universities? Who can still tolerate vandalism in public property, pre-contrasts and proselyses at the expense of teachers and fighters, criminal offences such as theft, physical harm, drugs, robberies and rape? Some members of the counter-population were asked: But is it so common to have such violations so that police protection measures are required? Let's not be fooled. Some of the above actions are daily phenomena and some other things may not. They, however, recommend a brutal attack on the system of values which the academic space empowers, and which is why they cannot be tolerated. So let us acknowledge the obvious fact that safety is a necessary condition for the academic community, and let us move to the next question, who will implement it. The maintenance of the university cannot be an internal matter and must depend on the energy of one of its institutions. This has failed in practice, and it makes sense, since we cannot ask the victim to activate the involvement of the police, especially at a risk, especially at the time they are threatened, while they are in hostage. Moreover, the presence of such a body at the university's premises must not only be repressive. It must be primarily preventive, to know that there is a deterrent force. But does the self-help feel like this? No, the Council of State has said, even with incidental crises. No, they call them high-profile academics and lawyers. No, it says the Scientific Committee of the Parliament. The other flagrant change of the bill is the special basis for introduction, the threshold, which constitutes each university under the law, so that candidates can enter their schools on the basis of conscious choice and thus remain and graduate from them. The fact is that there were concerns about the impact on the import bases, particularly on the low demand segments. Will the number of their students be reduced? Did they close some of them? More careful analysis shows that these segments are most threatened by depreciation than by the basis of import. Today, where education is increasingly closely linked to professional rehabilitation, which is evidenced by the demand that some schools have, many families are reluctant to spend money on low-profile schools. The practical result is actually to study quite fewer than the invaders and not to graduate about 30% of them. The most important thing, therefore, is that the state should ensure the conditions for strengthening regional universities in the country, which, because of their geographical location, are lag behind in domestic competition and, in particular, the University of Western Macedonia, in implementation of the fair development transition clause, since the region is particularly affected by the effects of more than eleven years of liberation. We have put our demands in cooperation with the MPs and the republican authorities of Western Macedonia with the State Secretary responsible and we will work together to implement them. The University of Western Macedonia is a partner, Mrs. Minister, in the project of transition to the post-fascist era and a lever in the development of our place. That is why we must protect it and provide the equipment for its wonderful potential to progress and to distinguish, as has been demonstrated to date that it can succeed. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Ragus has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Madam President. What happened to you, Mrs. Keramea! It was for you to bring this bill with this systematic rhetoric against lawlessness, against arbitraryness, Mrs Kerameus, in favour of education policy and your Prime Minister, while you want to convince the Greek people that you are fighting against lawlessness and arbitraryness, it commits one of the worst acts of lawlessness and acts of arbitraryness in Ikaria the other day and gives an example to a people who must stand up to the pandemic. And when they tell him to apologize, that doesn't work for educational reasons, Mrs. Keramea! He didn't even do it today that came to the House. I don't know if you've understood, Ms. Keramos, that the charges it charges against the policy you're conducting at the Ministry of Education, I think, the opposition is heavy. In fact, if you do not understand, you are questioned by the Minister of Education and they give you the status of State Secretary of Development, responsible for the development of private education in Greece. The 'Secretary' does not concern you. Unfortunately, your policies have not yet been exercised and they have not brought the results they are going to bring, and so there is no more justification for that than the State Secretary's position. It was also clear from the speeches made by our rapporteur, Mr Philis, and our Parliamentary representative, Mr Skourletis, and today by the President of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Tsipras, that, however you are trying, you will not manage to convince anyone that we disagree with the problem. It is clear that what we disagree on is the solution you are going to give. What do we think about the solution you're going to give? That it's a wrong solution. Why? Because - if you want to pay attention to this a little, Mrs Kerameou, because it can be useful - we believe 'that police action within the spaces of the universities without serious reason and also police activities of a preventive nature, such as police checks, provocations, pedestrians and on-board patrols or even police assistance to other authorities on minor issues, must be avoided, because we believe, a climate of concern and tension in the particular environment of the university space and by extension, the smooth functioning of the universities'. You know what the problem is for you, Mrs. Keramea and Mr. Chrysochoid? That what I have just read to you is not the wording of what we believe. We had the opportunity to talk to you many times these days. They're written by Mr. Chrysochoidis last year. Not when he was a PASOK Minister not years ago or when the New Democracy ruled either with Mr Samaras Prime Minister or with Mr Karamanlis Prime Minister, but last year, under Prime Minister Mitsotakis, this was the circular that left with Chrysochide signing in all the police departments around the universities. What I just read to you. Please keep it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Ragussis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And what do you do now in practice, besides making this one hundred and eighty-degree turn? You do this paranoid academic, institutional, political, and, if my term is a little allowed, and police: instead of installing the universities to the police, you take the universities out of the police and you hire the special guards too in this case outside of the Greek examinations. So instead of installing the universities to the police, to raise its level, you're installing the police at the universities, and indeed with the extradition of special guards, who are not in fact police officers. And say it even a little more specifically: You are not putting the Greek Police at universities, you are installing the Greek Police at universities in violation of the basic principles and traditions of our democratic culture. But one will say "necessary". So let’s go see the logic of this need that prompted you to bring this bill today. What is the starting point for all - and today Mr Mitsotakis from there has basically started over there, and has he backed his argument - of the arguments? The incident with the dean of ASAP. This has been seen by the Greek people and obviously this understands in the best way possible. Yes, sir. What, however, has happened in the case of this precollectation of disgusting, obscene propaganda, the unacceptable one, accepted by the dean? What happened? It happened that the police traced this case, that they arrested the perpetrators that led them to the prosecutor before your law, before this one, the university police intelligence for special guards. Yes or no? Is that true, Mrs. Kerameau, or isn't it? It's true, Mrs. Kerameau. So where is the argument based? It was supposed to be based on the argument that the situation is more complicated, more serious than the Rector of ASEAN. But, if that is the case, how do you seek to resolve these tasks in a body in which you are even going to entrust them with inquiries, something for which the policemen will do three years of training, a body that has twenty-day training days, is supposed to cope with more serious incidents than the ones we have seen in the case of the Rector of the OSCE and which the police have dealt with? Mr. Tsipras read you a bunch of incidents, not to tell you what this is all about. You know them very well. But to actually speak to you and underline the irresponsibility with which you are dealing with this very serious problem that exists in the Greek universities, which is proven and documented by the kind of police officers to whom you are commissioning these tasks. And I'm closing. Then there remains a reasonable question in the conversation. Then why are you doing all this? We say it's not a solution to the problem. Many Members have said that you are doing so for ideological reasons. And political leaders there supported their view. I'll say something a little different. I'm afraid you don't even do it for ideological reasons. I fear that you are even lower in trying to approach these very serious problems that Greek universities and Greek higher education have. You do it for the purposes of managing and fighting symbols. You only care about a photo that can sometime come out with these special guards and their uniforms in the universities, so you can have and show it. But remember, Mrs Keramos, that such photographs of many governments and - worse still - many regimes sought and actually managed to get out. But remember that this photo will turn you back boomerang, because in the hands of the foreign press it will be the ultimate proof that the Mitsotakis government is fully matched by the Trump, the Orban-type, Katsinski-type regimes. And remember one last thing, Mrs. Keramea. That many of the policies that both Trump and Orban and Katsinski imposed on their countries were policies that, when they applied them or when they had decided to proclaim them, were popularly highly popular. But ever, Mrs Keramos, along with their incumbent ministers, have not avoided their classification in what in the world's political geography ranks all these perceptions that you carried in the extreme right and wing of the whole political spectrum worldwide. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Change Movement has submitted a request for a roll-call vote to the President of Parliament on the principle of the draft law. This roll-call vote will take place as soon as the debate on the bill is concluded. Mr. Karathanasopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Madam President. We followed the controversy just now between Mr Mitsotakis and Mr Tsipras, in which we had a climax of the falsified confrontation, which wants to show that these two poles are quarreling, and in substance they complement each other. One cuts and the other sews. For example, we have seen the controversy on ERT and the phenomena that have been recorded lately for its pluralism. The point? It's Mr. Tsipras' proposal. How do we get away from these incidents? The two parties agree to the appointment of the ERT board. Bravo! Is that enough for your democratic sensitivity? For the two parties? So the pluralism that ERT must have is limited in the context of bipolarism? You're very democrats, that's good. But even the New Democracy certainly doesn't back up, doesn't leave you complaining. In other words, it provides SYRIZA with the properties it does not have. So what does the government tell you? That you're the stimulants of student mobilization. But if that's possible! Really, can a party that has 1% to 2% at most - very much to students - play the role of the driver? It's just that it suits the government to show you as motivators, because you're exactly the convenient opponent. Of course, we have heard the big and meaningless words - Mr Taradilis condensed them - on the universities that the government wants. But it's out of reality that people's households are experiencing, that education is a very expensive sport, care shops, costs, school costs if you're in another city from the city of residence, and that turns into a ban for thousands of young and young children of the people's classes, children who for you are a lower god. Switch to all falls of common sense. Really, what common sense are you talking to us about? For what common sense, which answers what needs? Is it not common sense, for example, that the need to cover the enormous shortages which universities have, shortages in staff, shortages in laboratory equipment, shortcomings in student care, which its absence turns into a banned good for thousands of young people and young people? But this is the result of the time-consuming responsibilities of all governments. Your common sense, and not only, is subject to the need to reproduce the barbaric capitalist system, which is satisfied with the marketing of education and the cracking of radicalisation. This explains your attitude to the universities during the pandemic period. You keep the universities closed for living education activity, closed for students, while at the same time they remain open for the business that is developing within universities. It is therefore a conscious choice for the government to keep the universities closed. You are talking about a new flagship reform, but it follows on from other corresponding flag reforms by Mrs Diamantopoulou and Mr Gavroglou. And this follow-up is evidenced by the common starting point you all have, New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement. What is this common starting point? The business activity at the AEIs, i.e. anonymous enterprises, in the assessment, on the basis of market needs rather than social development. You are indeed admiring some very large universities abroad, in the United States, but you do not put the criterion that in the United States $1.6 trillion for student loans, which turn graduates into long-term hostages of banks to pay back these loans. You also agree to interconnect research with businesses and also with the imperialist organisations, such as NATO, who are making programmes within universities. And, indeed, is it ever possible for an investigation financed by an entrepreneur to challenge the interests of the employer? Instead, he will try to adjust and subdue the results of his research to the interests of the company that finances him by thus financing science. Fourthly, you agree on the degradation and categorisation of diplomas, the depreciation of studies. Fifthly, you agree on the equivalence of diplomas with your college diplomas all of you. Sixth, you agree to the disconnection of a degree from professional activity all of you. And where does that drive? It leads to social development, he says, of the new man. Truly, you are trying to cover up the huge class differentiation within scientists. There are, of course, business executives, the various Golden Boys, but there are, on the other hand, the self-employed, who sell their scientific work for a piece of bread. There are the wages scientists, through the intensification regime with the block, or the majority of them, who are low-wage. And there are, of course, the heterogeneous graduates, not because they don't want to, but because they can't find a job in the subject they were studying. There you have led them to the conditions prevailing in the labour market. All this is the result, the component of the European Union's policy for the single academic area. But you don't just agree with them. You also agree on the issues of repression. The Government of New Democracy takes off repression within universities: a special police force of thirty people. Cameras at the universities. Disciplinary board that can decide to delete it across the street, says, in illegal acts. Who are these? We call it clear. It's not the illegal acts you want to deal with. What you are concerned about is dealing with the student movement, moving towards the organised action of students and workers, against radicalisation. This is confirmed by your common perception of asylum. You're talking about asylum, academic, not university asylum. Academic asylum does not include the action of students' associations, workers at universities. So, together, all together, New Democracy, SYRIZA, KINAL, Mer25 - and we are not talking about the crisis - this asylum is defending, which breaks the labour and student movement. The government of SYRIZA has shaped the institutional framework of repression and the EMIs, through the establishment of the high-level panel of experts from the European Commission for radicalisation, through smart policing, smart policing, ordered by the SYRIZA government a thousand scanning, recognizing people, and so the operation of the camera in the universities comes to button. But this was also the case with the changes promoted by the SYRIZA Government for the Criminal Code. While other penalties were reduced, what increased? Penalties related to the action of the movement, such as preventing traffic, or blocking public services and social facilities, which you were even prospering with integrating into it the disruption of the functioning of collective bodies. And such a collective body is dean. So the protest at the meeting of the Rector's Council is a criminal offence for SYRIZA and the Government of New Democracy. The protest at a branch assembly is also a criminal offense. So SYRIZA has shaped the institutional framework of repression and the New Democracy's executive arm, so that this reactionary institutional framework for repression can be implemented. And the confrontation you all have - New Democracy, PASOK, SYRIZA, Mera25 - is not about whether a special body is to be established, not about the mission of this special body, but about who will give the order, whether the police or the dean will give it. Really? You have such great differences? Through this false dilemma, which you cultivate, you want the people, the youth, the working people's movement and the student's logic of repression to accept.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u112	Please, Mr. Colleague, you have to hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u113	I shall conclude, Madam President. Of course, there are too many of them, such as the Rector of Patras, who expects the law to be passed, to go ahead, and threatened students who were protesting in his office: "I will apply the disciplinary board to you who are mobilizing." And they're mobilizing to claim what? Don't go tuition in postgraduate. If, then, the government thinks that by this law it can break and put on the plaster the student movement and the workers at universities, it is deeply unbelievable. The bill will be thrown into the basket of unusables and will be thrown out by the strong intervention and action of the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mrs Cassimatis has the floor now from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Madam President. And, by the way, I would like to express my support for what has happened to you yesterday and to condemn these actions in turn. Ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Undersecretary, this three-day discussion of the draft law of the Ministry of Education, entitled 'Introduction to higher education, Protection of academic freedom, Upgrade the academic environment and other provisions', peaks today. And from this title we realized that, in your usual practice, you are using a message, a word shell, from which you have completely kidnapped their essential meaning and surrounded by them as a false impression, to mislead the House and the people. You did the same last June, when you brought another bill called "to upgrade school". Who doesn't want it? Apart from the government, which had just now legislated to remove the high academic qualifications from the candidates at the ADP educational for primary and secondary education, so that gradually the public school is made up of teachers who will have lower academic qualifications, graduates of IEKs, colleges, all those who want to serve with this bill today. With him, therefore, the false title and today you are attempting the anti-democratic diversion, Mrs Kerameos, like Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitsotakis, to shorten the Greek public university, that is to say, strategically shorten the Greek people and establish the police within him and the market of the domestic parasitic economic oligarchy within, except on this basis. This bill is a mixture of your two ideological souls, neo-conservative and neo-liberal, imitating old bad traditions of right-wing party in the country, in a manifestly undemocratic legislation. Most of all, however, it moves towards the opposite of the national, social, academic and productive development priorities that the country needs. It's moving out of season. You know or rather you should know, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the Third Hellenic Republic is pre-born, since the dictatorship falls because of the Cyprus tragedy, achieving for the sake of those who were moving it, the Cyprus tragedy with the laws of Hellenism remain unjust to date. At the same time, the Third Hellenic Republic is sealed indelible from the gate of the Polytechnic and then founded on the concept of asylum, the abolition of which was your first job, one of the first ones, you have just taken on, with an amendment, in fact. It's your relationship with history. That is what you think you can do, that is, with an amendment to cancel an entire era, an entire race for a people. In fact, the Minister, who is absent from the Chamber at the moment, yesterday, is referring to the dorms and even to some people, saying that we are ideologically fermenting and organizing our political and social struggles. And the Minister says: 'I am very sorry for this view of young people and, as they say, students. No, ladies and gentlemen, the university is a platform of knowledge, it is a place of learning, research, a fertile exchange of views, an expansion of spiritual horizons. It is not a place of ideological fermentation, recruitment and occupation.’ I'll agree it's not a recruiting place. There's no recruitment inside the universities. Prison is currently being held by the Deputy Chief of Golden Dawn, Christos Pappas, who is free and recruits for the Golden Dawn. That is why Mr Chryssohoidis has neither declared nor put the political burden on the police to heal this dreadful thing. Let's just say now if it's an ideological fermentation and conquest space for the university. In other words, the Minister told us, once again, that law school in 1973 and polytechnic later were not the universities they should have. So, the ideological fermentation for the anti-digit struggle should have happened somewhere else, and I know? - Maybe it happened badly. I'm sorry. Your bill is undemocratic. This is a legislative initiative which is manifestly arbitrary. You come under conditions of generalized incarceration and you bring a bill that refers to the entire academic community and refers to the entire Greek people, in any case, and his hopes for access to higher education. And you're talking about polling. And you say: We are talking here three days, and for the first time this is happening and for the first time, but your polls, gentlemen of SYRIZA and gentlemen of KINAL, and I don't know who, they say, the people, the voters are with us. In other words, you have really exceeded all the pretexts of the democratic process. Talk to the polls. I don't know, do you think you're playing "Börgen"? There's no people. The universities are closed, the student community is absent, everyone is in their homes, you know that universities will start lately after the pandemic, and you decide and order. Because that's what you're doing. You bring a new conservative, unconstitutional bill, with the bad history you have from the traditions of EKO, EKO etc. Of course what are you telling us in vengeance? The Prime Minister said so yesterday falsely in his interview. He said there's universal telephony. Really? Come to Piraeus II, Prime Minister, see if there is universal telecommunications, according to which you decide - since there is universal telecommunications - to implement now, within the pandemic, our electoral commitments and to increase the basis for admission to universities. Did you find this year? Even if we were to agree - I tell you about the economy of the debate - what Breech says is true, after the books were stolen, they told us to be indisputable! You want this year, when the Greek family is in the most attractive place that has come in the last decade, to overcome insurmountable obstacles and cut one last hope of entering the university. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] We have too much to talk about. Unfortunately, our time for such a big bill is too short. He also said yesterday that he was lucky - unfortunate to have his term of office in the pandemic. We consider that we are unfortunate - unfortunate that the country has this governance at this historic turning point. I also told you from the budget that the Greek social formation is in a marginal moment and has the worst government it could have. I am speaking nationally and socially, with all the risks that currently exist, with biological, economic and national risks. But I am convinced that, despite your obsessions in 2074, when this people celebrated the hundreds of years from Postpopulation, this people who are now outside will be celebrating and you will still be trying to overcome the ideological hegemony of the Left. Your problem is not the ideological hegemony of the Left. You have to understand that. Your problem is with democracy. You're deeply authoritarian and dangerous to this place. But this people will win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u116	Thank you too, my colleague. The floor is now held by the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, Mr Economou, for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Madam President. Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, you would reasonably wonder what the portfolio of the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food may have to do with the bill we are discussing today. However, education and, therefore, the supplies with which we 'block' new generations are issues which concern all of us, and that is why I am here today. The public Greek university brings together, ladies and gentlemen, a number of features that fuel Greek society with added value. I studied with great pride at the Greek public university and much of my course so far I owe it to this. I owe it to the knowledge I acquired in the amphitheatres and workshops of the Agricultural University of Athens, in friendships and relationships with hundreds of people from different parts of Greece that we arrived in Athens to study. In the hundreds - not to say to the thousands - people of my generation who through the student classes - we through the IGC, others from different times - attempted our first steps in the world of ideas and applied policy. It is my duty, therefore, to contribute with all my powers in the development and upgrading of public universities. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a precondition for any honest dialogue like the government in and from this bill that no one is denying reality. And that is why we are once again facing our responsibilities in relation to how we understand our institutional role. A radical reform of quality in education that we offer to our children cannot become a red cloth and the occasion for sterile criticism. So away from the logic of opposition to the opposition and positioning on the positioning, we are today called upon to decide the future of education that we want, the quality of education that we have to offer to our children. All the rest, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just fine letters, but, as we would say simply and understandably, it is 'we should have said'. And why am I saying all this? Because, in keeping closely with the debate and the general public debate, I have found with great regret the attempt of counter-population to transform the debate on higher education into a manifesto and its constant momentum to raise tons. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish to speak on the important aspects of the Hellenic University, such as the dynamics, quality, people who have classified, for example, the National Kapodistrian University of Athens in the first Greek university, which is above the series "two hundred" with criteria above one, in the international ranking of the universities of the world. Other universities, such as Metsovio Polytechnic, Aristotle, University of Patras, University of Ioannina, are also very high in the relative classification. The dynamics of the Greek universities therefore exist. The country's great minds are there. What do they need? It needs a reform policy that will release them and push them even further. And that must be our goal. Listening to the needs of society itself, we need to overcome outdated attitudes with an immediately implemented project. To smuggle and eliminate hugs. And what are these claws? These claws, ladies and gentlemen, are the incidents that have unfolded and these days around Parliament, in front of the well-known Athenian Trilogy, particularly in the midst of a pandemic. They are the ones that prove the imperative need not only for immediate reforms but also for a universal political confrontation with a forward-looking caricature, which has been unable for years to follow the course of the country but also of the world, its evolution over the last thirty years, which has been struggling with an atmosphere that has not existed for years in Greece. It is sad once again to be in the same malicious work as viewers. It is sad, while we are discussing how to upgrade our education, some to protest - my own, supposedly - by flying objects and cries. Ladies and gentlemen, today's reforms are obviously no cause for celebration. Alas, if we celebrated for self-evident! Obviously, then, and we don't celebrate for self-evident. For us today's bill is what common sense protects. And what's that? What is being protected by common sense, ladies and gentlemen, is that no student should be afraid of visiting the amphitheatre and his university from stress not becoming a barber in the hands and at the disposal of various mysteries. Clearly, no parent is happy when his child’s school closes for two or three months or more a year. Of course, the obvious thing is that no student is really happy when he passes to his forty-five choice and ends up in a school that does not like or cannot meet its demands. So he's been practicing for several years and later he's trapped in the range of unemployment. Ladies and gentlemen, in all this morbid situation, we too could whistle indifferently. We could close our eyes, we could have artificially hidden the problems under the carpet. It is simple, moreover, that the previous government has successfully done so, according to its own criteria. For those who needed higher education, TEIs were transformed into universities overnight without academic criteria. It was important for them to protect access to all forms of collectiveness and not to shield the constitutional right of academic freedom of students and teachers every day, without the need for the permission of cocks and cocks. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, if we really want to have a substantial contribution, a substantial contribution to the future of the new generation and the place, now is the time. If we agree with common sense, with the real interest of the Greek family and students, let's go further, let's move on to this. It is our chance that we will not see any more embarrassing images like those of last October, with the invasion of the Dean's office in ASEAN. It is our chance that our students will go to the schools they really want and respond to the opportunities they have in the contents of their studies. This is our chance to fund quality studies for our children. Ladies and gentlemen, I am proud to have been a student of the Greek public university and I want my child, when the time comes, if he wishes, if he can, like any child in this country, have the opportunity to enjoy the education he deserves. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, too, Minister. We are now going to the 'WEBEX' speaker circle. The first is Mr. Spiritual from the New Democracy. Mr. Colleague, I would ask you to keep an eye on your time. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, in a few months' time, the children of the Third High School will be asked to give examinations for their introduction to higher education after a difficult year in which every normality has been overturned because of the pandemic. Against these children and their families, we must speak not with theories and ideological blindfolds, but with data. In 2020, the success rate of the pan-Hellenic examinations was about 77.2%, i.e. about eighty thousand candidates entered the universities. At the same time, the percentage of students completing their studies per year at the Greek universities on all students is about 9%, when in the European Union the average is 24%, that is, almost 30% of those admitted will never graduate. We have a system where a candidate from Athens can be introduced into his fifty-five choice, depriving him of the position of another candidate, who had it as the first option because that is where his residence is. All these distortions create dead-ends, dead-ends for the student who cannot meet the requirements and either give up frustrated or eternal student, dead-ends for the candidate who finds no place for admission to his university, dead-ends for families who finance studies for their children, who do not lead anywhere. So we have to decide at last: do we want regular universities providing high-level education and opportunities for students, or do we want a piece of paper, and let us not have any objections? The bill, therefore, introduces three changes, which delineate the student's relationship with the university, their way of introducing them into and their duration into higher education, which aim to remove precisely these distortions and to shield university studies from decommissioning. First, therefore, a minimum basis for introduction, defined by each university or department as a percentage of the average degrees in basic courses. In addition to strengthening the academic conditions for the introduction of candidates, the autonomy of higher education institutions that can shape the academic profile of the students they want is also strengthened. Secondly, changes in computerisation, with a limited number of options in the first phase and unlimited in the second phase. The aim is to introduce more candidates into departments where they really want to study. The process of completing the computer will become a conscious choice after informing the various schools. This will reduce the import phenomenon in any random option but also the need for relocations. For the first time, it is possible to complete, in addition to computers for higher education institutions based on pan-Hellenic, a parallel computer for the introduction into the public IEK on the basis of a certificate. In the face of all kinds of deadlocks, then, the Ministry of Education compares more choices and alternative paths. Thirdly, the introduction of a curriculum time limit plus two years for studying in a four-year study programme and three years for studying in study programmes over four years, starting from this year. Of course there are social exemptions, for students working, for serious personal or family reasons and others. The introduction of a limit will finally lead to an improvement in the rate of graduation and makes studies consistent and timely. Overall, these interventions have a positive sign for students, since their introduction into the university will not depend on the difficulty of the examinations, they will have a better quality of study and a greater chance of studying what they want most, at the place they want, but also an upgraded degree in the labour market. The benefits are multiple for universities. Their prestige is shielded, the quality of the education is improved, their autonomy is strengthened and their ability to form a distinct academic profile is strengthened. The need for relocations is reduced and their position in international classification systems is improved. The second axis of the bill, which has dealt with a great deal of public debate - and especially in recent days - is to strengthen the security of university and academic freedom. Three important contributions are currently being made to further enhance the safety of higher education institutions. Firstly, the introduction of a system of controlled access to university spaces, and the creation of structures for the safety and political protection of higher education institutions. Secondly, the establishment of a University Foundation Special Protection Group, with a view to protecting and safeguarding higher education institutions and strengthening academic freedom. We're talking about self-evident. Universities and their space is not a clear vineyard, they belong to teaching and educational staff, officials and students, who must be able to move and work safely, not in a climate of terrorism, without images of ugliness and without hampering the academic, educational and administrative work of the university. Thirdly, to strengthen disciplinary provisions with a view to creating a structured overall disciplinary framework for higher education institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, all these interventions in this bill have as the main focus the upgrading of the Greek public university. The arrangements for admission to university will lead to conscious students and, at the same time, for those who fail to do so, there are even more choices that can lead to personal and professional development. Our children will enter universities where they will be able to learn to do research, create, without lost six months, with teachers who can express themselves and teach freely, without fear of retaliation by various marginal groups and "blacks". Academic, of course, freedom means neither chaos nor immunity. Only in this way will the public Greek university maintain its academic authority, not only in international rankings, but also in the consciousness of all of us. As the Minister for Education said, we are talking about common sense. Let us finally move forward, let us overcome all these issues, which have been broken up for decades in foreign universities, to give our children and the excellent academic potential of our country the universities they deserve. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u120	Thank you very much, Mr President. Now Mrs Karasarlidou has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, my colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government brought an anti-constitutional bill on education in the middle of a pandemic, with the main argument for the democratisation and upgrading of the Greek universities, contrary to the university and, more generally, the educational community, contrary to the opposition, to the associations of policemen, with the opposition of even historical officials, such as Mr. Sufflia, Mr. Fortsakis and others. Minister, while you are trying to convince the Greek society that Greek universities are low-level and that low-grade students are admitted to the introductory examinations and that is why you will reduce the invaders by 25% - which corresponds to about twenty-five thousand students - while presenting the Greek universities as centres of lawlessness and illegality, the Global Assessment of Shanghai comes on January 28th and disproves you. According to this assessment, which is worldwide the most respected and acceptable, among the twelve thousand universities examined, the National Kapodistrian University is in the eighty-eighth place, the Aristotle University is in the two hundred-fifth place and follow the National Metsovio Polytechnic, the University of Patras and the University of Ioannina. On the other hand, the private Greek colleges - which are your models - are under the thirteenth thousand, while others are even under the 20th thousand. You now want these diplomas to be equated with our universities' degrees. Also, you abolished the operation of sixty-seven-seven-year programs at the Greek AEI for the graduates of PAAL, programmes that were running since October 2019 already. However, immediately after the elections, you suddenly and without any justification have suspended their operation, that is to say, you have ruled out the only way out of a public free system for these children, forcing them to turn to the private sector, of course, those who have this economic potential. At the same time, while, after the end of the memoranda, legislation provides for the ratio of one to one for university teachers, namely an intake for a withdrawal, you ignore it, so that three thousand teachers are missing from the Greek universities. I must point out here that the proportion of teachers and trainees is a key element in the assessment of international rankings, such as that of Shanghai. In spite of the great shortages, you insist that you do not hire and at the same time reduce funding for 2021 by 13% in universities. The intentions behind these moves are obvious. All these months you have made it clear that you are a government that is more interested in the interests and contracts of individuals than in serving the needs of society. Unfortunately, this is even reflected in neural areas such as public education and public health. In this sensitive and vital area of education, what is primarily of interest to the Ministry's leadership is to serve the interests of college owners and increase their clientele. You are actually preparing them for twenty - five thousand additional student customers, which in practice means 250 million euros. This is an extreme cynicism, which opposes even the intentions of the European Union, where the direction is to increase the number of children in universities. Until first the European Union's objective was the thirty-two to thirty-six years old to be 40%, and now, on the basis of the Portuguese Presidency's proposal, this objective has been raised to 50%. The reason why this was because European countries are aiming at the end of the pandemic to find them with a higher level of education and training for the populations, which contribute to the development of a country. You, on the other hand, taking away all the pretext for upgrading the HEIs, expressly state in the bill that any universities do not apply the policing you are imposing on them or do not go ahead with the student's remissions will suffer consequences for their funding for the following year. Now, on the second burning issue of the bill, that of university policing, once again, your reality is disgusting. You have decided to set up police departments within the OAU, with the recruitment of a thousand thirty policemen, violating the constitution of the country, invoking violence and infraction, while according to official data we are already the second policeman in the European Union with 1.3 expenditures from GDP, much higher than the European average. We are the only country that, in the midst of a pandemic and with so many months in quarantine, has increased for 2021 by 7% of the police and reduced by 2.5% of the health workers. You said that you would make available EUR 20 million for the policing of universities, when the budget for all universities is EUR 91 million, if I am not mistaken. While the Greek universities are in 2% -3% of the leading universities worldwide, having the worst proportion of students and members of the LAG, you choose to invest in policing, although in universities it accounts for only 0.1% of general crime in the population. And one wonders: If this 0.1% is set up by a special police force and a thousand police officers are hired, then how many should there be for the whole country? Because I'm just mathematics, it turns out that we should have a million cops. But be sure, Minister, that it is now beginning to be understood in the largest part of the Greek people that this is an attack on public education and the public university. And keep in mind that outcry and resistance to it will not only come from the student movement, but from every citizen of the country, in order to defend public education and democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much, my colleague. Mr. Castanides has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am sorry that I am not in this House, because from my time to time I have less opportunity to contribute to the consolidation and disclosure of the exceptional contribution of the majority in the public debate on higher education. Since the first time, Madam President, when the bill under discussion has been put into public consultation, a question is mistaken to the horizons of the country: are you in favour of fairness or of lawlessness in the Greek universities? This question was raised at length by the Government, its officials and government officials in the media, in order to hide the essential issues that the government is trying to regulate. The question is not whether Greek citizens and Greek political parties are in favour of lawlessness or fairness. We directly answer you that we are in favour of fairness, of constitutional order, of academic freedoms and of democratic order. The question is whether the government respects constitutional legitimacy, whether it is in favour of academic freedoms, whether it respects the decisions of the independent authorities, and whether, of course, it respects the functioning, as provided for by the Constitution and the law, of individual rights and freedoms. And I'm explaining. What are the real issues that have been concealed by the fine question: “Are you in favor of lawlessness or fairness?” The first issue the government regulates is that it narrows, makes access to higher education difficult, at the same time that it refuses to take appropriate measures for colleges. It increases the pool of people, young people, who will be forced to go to colleges, for which the government decided a little while ago: firstly, to grant professional rights equal to those of the graduates of the public universities and, secondly, a few weeks ago to apply to the economic and technical chambers of college graduates, despite the strong reactions of the technical and economic chambers. It says the Government: "I want a minimum basis for introduction in order to increase the quality of children entering higher education institutions." We fully agree that there should be a debate on the minimum import base. The question is, however, whether there is a minimum basis for admission to public universities, which deprives a child who takes a unit or a '2' to be introduced to higher education institutions, because it allows colleges to import '1' or '2' to university exams and, at the same time, enable them to be enrolled in the technical and financial chambers. I can catch up with the Minister, so he won't get any new manoeuvres. If the answer is 'yes, but we cannot intervene in colleges', then I remind her that in constitutional order and simple law, as in primary schools in the country, as in secondary schools, rules apply the same as in public schools, in the same way that for colleges there should be a matching of the difficulties of the legal rules that the state wants for public institutions. And because I have listened with great patience to the answer before, 'but we cannot set a minimum import base because it is franchising foreign universities', the answer is extremely simple. The college records in our country are just like the entries in the foreign higher institutions? And secondly: if you can't do this, then take back the arrangements for registering in chambers of those who have one or two units in the university exams and failed, but are imported into colleges. What, secondly, is he hiding? It is concealed that specific individual freedoms and rights are bent with the indiscriminate use of electronic surveillance instruments. Someone has to tell the Prime Minister not to be exposed, and that is the work of the partners. Because I saw him reporting to the Privacy Authority. I suppose the Minister for Education doesn't know that either, so I'm going to inform the House. The government is obliged to distinguish between electronic surveillance instruments which will be used in a public area, such as higher education institutions. It cannot indiscriminately say that electronic image and sound recording media are generally introduced. A few months ago, the Independent Privacy Authority issued its decision No 2/2020 on its opinion on the Presidential Decree of the Minister of Civil Protection on the control of public concentrations pursuant to the improper Memorandum of Understanding on Public Concentrations. What does the Privacy Authority say? It says that you must state what means you are using, because it is not possible, for example, to use unmanned means, such as drones. And it invokes the Personal Data Protection Authority's example of France's Supreme Administrative Court banning its use in Macronn administration, because there was no clear institutional framework for their operation, as is the case here. What will you allow, Minister? And let the Prime Minister of the country know. Will you allow the image to focus on a face to face a violation of behaviour by a drone? In response to the Greek case-law and the Privacy Authority: “If you focus on a person, this is an interrogation act and the competent public prosecutor needs prior approval.” And these must be laid down in the provisions of the bill. A third issue that is being concealed. For the first time in the history of Postmultimedia is introduced by formal law disciplinary law for students. Question 1, and naive: Why with formal law disciplinary law only for students, but not for academic staff? Ladies and gentlemen, according to Mrs Keramos' provision, if ten, fifteen, twenty students use a free space at the university, for example, the Chemistry Square of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, without the approval of the competent authority - this is a free space - this is a disciplinary offence that is being persecuted. If they do the same thing twenty, thirty, forty teachers, members of academic staff, use, that is, without permission, no disciplinary offence. However, the main, in accordance with Article 16 of the Constitution, cannot be introduced disciplinary law by means of a formal provision of law. I'll explain why you're violating Article 16 of the Constitution, Minister. Paragraph 6 of Article 16 of the Constitution expressly states that everything concerning the status of academic staff - and among issues relating to the status of academic staff is disciplinary matters - is regulated only by provisions of university bodies, not by law. If, for academic staff, who are in employment with higher education institutions, there is therefore no need to have a formal law on disciplinary offences, much more for those who have no service with universities such as students, it cannot be introduced by a formal provision of law, in accordance with Article 16(6), disciplinary law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u124	Mr Colleague, excuse me, but you'll have to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u125	Madam President, I always know that I am faced with the time crisis. Give me a few seconds to finish. Therefore, you should pay attention to arrangements which may in the near future be judged as unconstitutional. I'm closing up with one more observation. Does the Minister for Justice know exactly what is being regulated by the amendment to Article 168 of the Criminal Code in Article 33? The current Criminal Code has a better and safer provision when it comes to illegal entry into workplaces, because it clearly states that the legislator is interested in illegal entry and the result he produces, i.e. that the smooth functioning of a service is disturbed. According to the new provision, illegal entry is carried out as an offence only if the competent authority using the site asks those who entered to leave. If he does not ask them, then no illegal act is taking place. I suppose you want to guarantee the conditions for the smooth operation of public spaces at the university. You are doing exactly the opposite. To understand that even in criminal regulations you make serious mistakes. My last sentence. When you invoke Rosa Imvriot, you must know her story. You do not only invoke it for excellence, you invoke it for its famous phrase, which I assume the Prime Minister does not accept. Rosa Impriotis says: "The work of teachers is to produce complete personalities and people, but that requires, first of all, that we teachers are human. And to be human, we must always stand close to the struggles of our people and citizens." Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Varzopoulou from New Democracy has the floor now. I would ask you to keep your time as long as possible because there are still a number of colleagues who have not spoken.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u127	I will try, Madam President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is the third and last formal stage of completing the institutional modernisation of our educational system. Following the laws on compulsory and secondary general and technical education, we are now preparing higher education so that it can adapt to the best international standards over time. And what are these best international standards? With regard to the conditions of introduction into the high-demand fields, which are linked to presumption and to guaranteed professional rights, there is always a numerus clausus, the closed number. In other words, there is a performance-based selection system that is demonstrated in a uniform way. Here, of course, each HEI can put its own touch, its own terms, which are linked to its specific resonance, but also to the specific professional prospects it ensures. In the low demand and low-professional sectors, access is usually much easier to reach and is being sorted out in the course of study. With today's law, we now have the regulatory framework to reach this ideal objective. What remains now is the harsh effectiveness of its implementation. In other words, the most important thing is for everyone to move the choice ratio between general and technical education to the European average, for students to choose 70% technical to 30% overall. In other words, the present ratio should be completely reversed. In this respect, they should: First, the Primary Skill Labs must distinguish correctly and convince students and parents about the selection of PSAs or apprenticeships. Secondly, vocational training schools, linked to chambers, offer real professional prospects, i.e. jobs. And thirdly, higher vocational education should gain strict professional rights. Ladies and gentlemen, our legal framework is now full. I think that few regulatory interventions still need to be made, for example, direct access from the PSAs to PSAs without pan-Hellenic techniques, as was the case in the past, or the introduction to cognitive subjects related to teaching in the training of special sections of regulated access and specific professional rights, for example, in Germany. In order to complete modernization, we must for the first time get to grips with the Greek state in addition to our formal, and with our customary education system, the schools. Total private expenditure on primary and secondary education in Greece accounts for about 40% of public expenditure. The average private expenditure per high school or high school student - excluding tuition fees - for private schools in 2016 was 1,600 euros, of which 65% in schools and, in particular, the rest in foreign languages. The expenditure in question as a percentage of the total family is about four times the European average. Reducing the demand for places of study... (It was not heard because of a bad connection) It is the one that will finally bring things to the European average. Of course, however, the need for the services of instructional education will remain, as will the usefulness of its valuable staff, as will its contribution to the real economy. We must, however, ensure that it becomes part of the everyday life of the public school, as part of its full-time operation. For example, by means of public-private co-operation schemes, a voucher fee which will be subsidised for the economically weak and so forth. Dynamic sector - very impenetrable! - but our resignation is for the hardest. Access of the people's strata to S.H.I.E. is our absolute priority. I'm on my way to policing. Basically we solved it institutionally by Article 64 of Law 4623 in August 2019. It didn't work for two reasons. The first because most university authorities, apparently, feared to apply it, avoiding informing the police about violations within their institutions. And, secondly, because the operational potential of ELAS. They obviously did not allow a continuous presence in university spaces. The new regulatory framework solves all this. The excuses are now depriving them. Allow me now to say a few words on specific issues of the PPE Group, but they are related to our current subject. It is now good that the bad times are going through and our financial possibilities are improved to recruit all the new police officers in uniform procedures and have uniform training. Here, let me repeat the proposal I made last year from this step and for the firefighting. All the uniforms of goodness are to be operated through unified and standardized procedures, but apart from the well-known pan-Hellenics, by their own procedures, tests to ensure the special qualifications and the particular inclination required for their employees. I also hope that the joint ministerial decisions that will apply the law will ensure that the protection teams of university institutions can be deployed in addition to the new police officers and with the police experiences in both the administration and the business field, as well as with their armed colleagues, in the opinion of the natural leadership, when the conditions impose it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u128	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor for seven minutes. I would ask you very much to keep the time, because there are many colleagues still on the list.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u129	I'll try it, Madam President. Yesterday we saw the violence and repression out of the House once again, and we heard the Minister of Public Order speaking in this House with heavy expressions. He referred to a gestapo in schools, trumpets that rape the rule of law and others. It was evident that the agonizing effort he made along with the Minister of Education to justify their obsession with the recruitment and placement of a thousand special guards in universities. They are struggling at their efforts, because they know that we are talking about today for the third day a bill that is reactionary, anachronistic and extreme conservative. They know themselves and the entire government that this bill has caused great reactions. Number of institutions, university bodies, the Rectors' Synod, University Senates, student clubs clearly state their strong opposition to this bill. Even executives who belong to your blockade separate their position and reject these proposals. The government is attempting to present a clear picture of our universities with students of troubled elements and teachers who have compromised this idea. They do not respect and slander in this unacceptable way public universities from which they graduated have graduated. They slander, and recently it proved that several of them are in the six hundred best universities in the world among thousands that have been judged. It is obviously another government ideological decision. Try to exploit communication, increase and create tensions and enemies. You know that the permanent presence of police at universities is not a solution to any violations of this kind. You know that with the existing framework, the police can intervene directly in the university space when crimes are committed. You yourself in 2019, with the law on the abolition of asylum, told us that you were solving the problem of infraction. Now you're saying the same thing again. You know that every democratic and progressive citizen has a completely different vision for our universities. You know that he wants them publicly, well-inhabited, safe, scientifically sufficient, democratically managed. It needs spaces to promote knowledge, education, productive reconstruction, democratic and social consciousness. The establishment of special guards within universities has nothing to do with or want to do with all these pursuits. Even the Panhellenic Police Officers' Federation declared its negative position on these plans. The only acceptable solution, both from the Constitution and from logic, is to strengthen the preservation of universities with qualified staff who will be subject to deanity. That's our proposal. We repeat it. You don't want to hear it. Of course, no one forgets that the current Prime Minister so much cares about their care, which, when he was Minister for Administrative Reform, led to the availability and dismissal of workers in the care of universities. Electronic surveillance, control centre, cameras, entry cards and hard disciplinary for students complete a set, which refers to societies described by Orwell. The position of the personal data protection authority is a trick for your pursuits. But you don't stop at this. In your decision to reduce admissions to schools, it is clear that you are strengthening social, economic and educational inequalities. Inside the pandemic with schools closed, with television having huge problems, you choose to change the rules of the game with surprise. The students of the lower social and economic strata are excluded from your terminology. It's going to be hard to pass the university doors. Those who do not have a financial problem or those who do not want to abandon the dream of study and to make financial sacrifices will be forced to study in private colleges and receive a degree supposedly equal to that of the public HEIs. You have recently taken an amendment to equate college degrees with those of public polytechnics and public financial schools. In reality, however, what you are seeking is to create a labour force of reduced qualifications, suitable for the working galleries you are preparing. Your policy will also bring about another major blow. Regional universities will be found in the eye of the cyclone, as several sections will be closed. A characteristic example of the tragic consequences of your isotope policy is Elias. Your bill is a tombstone for tertiary education and my county. You've made the decision to eliminate the county from the map of university education. You tried it with the "ATHENA" project in 2013, and you are seeking it again. With the Gavroglou Law in 2019 Elias first acquired three university departments, the Department of Music, the Department of Physical Education and Sport Sciences and the Department of Agriculture. In an effort of immediate power demonstration, the Ministry decided, without sufficient justification, to suspend the operation of the TECA, which was scheduled to start from the current academic year. Of course, he didn't stop at it. For at least one-and-a-half year, the Museology Department's operation is constantly being drugged, with enormous shortages in teachers, administrative staff and logistical infrastructure. Instead of giving a solution, as you are due to, to the top issue of the viability of the department, so that it can unintentionally continue its academic function, you have put it on the margin. But that's not enough either. With today's bill and the reduction of importers. the department and dozens of others across the country will be closed. At the same time, you open your college clientele. No minimum import base is provided for private colleges. There the only criterion you have is the financial capacity of everyone. With thousands of molecules the student won't pass to the public university, with thousands of euros, but he will receive a degree from private college. So it is clear what you are seeking. You seek to undermine public universities. Once again show your aggressive attitudes to public education, youth, financially weaker and society as a whole. However, the answer that is provoked cannot be passive but dynamic. Your bill cannot be implemented in practice and you know it. It will, of course, be abolished when SYRIZA and the progressive forces resume their governance of the country. But it will pass in history as a bill of anachronism and authoritarianism. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u130	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Thank you for being consistent in your time. Mrs. Tyloridou from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Madam President. Two objectives serves this draft law. The first is to impose on the fear of police violence implied in proclaiming all ideas. All except one, the idea of your conservative Prime Minister that social equality is contrary to human nature. The second is to put a cutter in the introduction to higher education for children, mainly the socially weaker classes, in the logic of your careless Prime Minister that the young man from Peristeri is destined to become a freezer. This is a legislative anti-democratic, anti-educational and anti-social abscession, which is causing reactions from students, teachers, the majority of retired people and not just from us on the bad left, but also from top executives of your own party. Those who support you are the well-paid media parrots who have long been trying to convince society that the Greek university is a man of law, drugs, crime and terrorism. In fact, behind the confiscation of the Greek public university, it is the goal of transforming the Greek youth into two-speed youths. You're sending education to the 1960s. This is an unprecedented counter-reformation, an unprecedented attack on the cultural rights of the new generation and, indeed, when the European Union aims to 40% of each country's citizens to have university education for cultural, social and development purposes. What are you talking about today? You tell twenty-five thousand young people that they are excluded from higher education, because you consider them incapable of studying. You say in the twenty-five thousand young entrants in previous years that they are unsealed graduates and the Minister of the Step of the House tells us that not all young people need a degree. However, those who pay to receive a diploma of doubtful quality colleges, which without any evaluation are equal to their degrees, degrees in academic supermarkets, which provide titles through a fee. With this arrogant bill, with this backward bill, you are attacking social equality and social mobility. The children of the rich will be studying anyway, and the poor will become employees of the rich. You are particularly undermining the value of regional universities, with an elitism that is not based on the truth, but on misleading and lying. He said, Mrs. Keramos, the Prime Minister just now: "Okay, private universities are down on the world ranking. Can you tell us the ranking of the new universities that you created as SYRIZA?" We can do it, Mr. Mitsotakis. The new University of Western Macedonia in the world ranking, in relation to all eight private universities in Great Britain - not in relation to private colleges in our country, with all the private universities in Great Britain - is ranked from three hundred to fifteen thousand positions higher and I submit the relevant documents in the Minutes. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mrs Olympia Tyigoridou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] What, then, do universities have doubtful quality studies? The University of Western Macedonia or the colleges you support? The University of Western Macedonia has international cooperation, participation in international, transnational postgraduate conferences, absorption of its graduates in the labour market at a very large rate, exceeding 75%, but you tell us that this small evil university cannot play a part in the educational and development upgrade of our region. And what universities do you support? The private. With what quality of studies? I will only tell you one example: Legal School of Thessaloniki. A student is required to obtain a degree in 50 classes, while at a private university - for example, in Cyprus - he is only thirty - he is only thirty - eight. And while at the public university each course has at least fifty hours of teaching, the private university has a maximum of thirty-five. Introductory, then, without exams, without criteria, with fewer lessons, with fewer teaching hours, but an equal degree, because Dad has a full pocket. With this bill at the University of Western Macedonia, eleven of the twenty-two are at risk of being closed down. Kastoria once again loses from this unacceptable government. The five university departments of both two years, you have already voted against them as opposition to the House. Election, of course, I would inform you that all the candidates of the New Democracy in the region said that not only will the departments be abolished, but when the government is elected, the New Democracy will bring more. Politicians, you're lying! You don't care about the development and educational role of universities in the region, and, to allay the situation from public reactions and public outcry, you mislead citizens with promises of supposedly upgraded. Upgrade by devaluation and closure of sections. But you can't hide anymore. We understand very well what you are talking about among you and how you are ironing out the dream of the young people of the Greek people and the people's families for a better life through education. And you have no shame in that! You will vote today on this abstention to serve Mr Mitsotakis' theory of social inequality, which is a natural phenomenon, and to serve the idealism of a failed Minister of Education of Postmultiple, who speaks about the Greek university, but does not have knowledge of it, as he has not even crossed the street, because he had the fate and the financial opportunity to study in France and the United States of America. We, however, know the Greek university and its potential, which we know the potential of the Greek youth and its right to the dream of a better life, are against and we promise the Greek youth and the Greek people that this bill will be the first to abolish our next government, which with what you do will not be long before it becomes a reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, my colleague. Now Mr. Amanatidis has the floor for seven minutes. Please try to keep your time a while too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u133	Of course, Madam President. I'm glad you're all right after last night's attack. Of course we express our sympathy and also through the Step of the House. Madam and Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, in general but clearly in education policy today there are two directions: One direction is the path of the major democratic and educational reforms in Europe and the tradition of Greek educational municipalism, which serves the universal, single educational system, accessible to all. The other direction is neoliberal. Education is offered as a service and is subject to market laws. They can buy it, the non-exhaustives are enough at a low-standard school. This policy leads to the private education premium for public education. Public school and university are abandoned in their luck. In this way, neoliberal policy depends on the quality of education and the income position of families. School and education become instruments for the reproduction of inequalities and social segregation. Ladies and gentlemen, in modern societies social inequality is directly related to educational inequality, which incorporates the unequal social starting point for people, the direct access to knowledge provided in Western education and, ultimately, the different educational achievements. Educational inequality, therefore, is the result of the social inequalities that exist and contribute to their reproduction, a conclusion which has reached many major surveys in the 1960s and 1970s, such as characteristics of Colman in 1966, Jensen in 1969, Jenks in 1972, as well as dozens of Greek researchers and teachers. In Greece, the expansion of participation in higher education in the last forty years has given students more opportunities from low social strata to read the threshold of higher education. Once again, however, the representation of the social classes remains unequal. According to Demosthenes Daggli, the observed removal of the edges of the distance is rich - poor, it follows a similar removal of the corresponding ends of knowledge - ignorance or semi-consciousness. The correlation between these distances appears to be their relationship, i.e. the choices of knowledge and the choices of money are being developed at the same time. The direction is towards a future world divided into a small global aristocracy of knowledge and power, consisting of scientists and those who finance them, while on the other hand there is a number of people who are constantly growing, who are excluded from knowledge and simple consumers. The neo-right government's educational plan, which incorporated extreme right-wing policies and practices, with exclusions and the class shift of access to higher education serves this course. Thus, with the first part of the bill, there is a violent restructuring of the map of higher education. The aim and aim is to reduce the number of importers, which will be made more effective - and here, if the Minister wishes to do so, let it be disproved - the statements made by the Minister for the redeployment of the number of importers between the educational establishments. I quote the following elements of ELSTAT since December 2020, so that there will be a comparison in the years to come for the disastrous results of your legislation and at the same time to demonstrate the positive results of our educational policy. Ladies and gentlemen, the risk of poverty to those who ended secondary education in 2014 was 22.6% and we reduced it to 18%, while for those who were in the first and second phases of higher education the risk of poverty in 2014 was 8.7% and we reduced it to 7.7% in 2019. The more they have a degree in higher education, the less at risk they have in poverty and more opportunities for integration into social and economic life. After all, this answers the question why Greek society has always given - and rightly it has given - very great attention and interest in obtaining university degrees. Ladies and gentlemen, the future of the peoples and of the planet cannot, of course, belong to the future of a large or small elite. As for any other issue, the awareness of this development takes precedence over the question, protest and insurrection. It is precisely in the capacity of this process that today's government policy is under attack. The Mitsotakis Government, in establishing university police, wants to despise, prevent and politically suppress any form of reaction or insurrection of students and the educational community against the systematic effort of the neoliberal reform of education. Those who said that with the abolition of asylum there would be no more lawlessness now, indirectly by confessing their failure, saying that there should be police in the universities so that there would be no lawlessness. I really wonder what they're gonna do if they fail again? Will they bring the tanks? It should be noted that here all the universities have security services, but they are accountable to the dean and not to the police, which, of course, even without a complaint, after the abolition of asylum, can enter the university. I would like to add what has been rightly expressed in the public debate here. As we expect the police to protect us from stealing our homes, but we do not consent to putting a police officer permanently in our home's living room, so must be done with the university. It's enough for the police to do their job. Ladies and gentlemen, many are university students, if not most, who oppose the provision to delete 'eternal students', as the government's gentlemen call them unactive students. And not just the left ones. Giorgos Babiniotis in his relatively recent book in 2017 the question of non-active students, among other things, answers as follows - and in my speech I will be tabling all the dialogue: "A limit, of course, must exist, but the so-called theme of eternal students is practical for universities in Greece a false problem. What I claim is that eternal students are not practically the problem of universities, as is usually projected, journalistically in particular. Others are the real problems of universities: sub-funding, sub-selling, inability to manage their assets outside bureaucracy, lack of opportunity for initiatives, etc. Why don't you legislate on the proposal of POPULATION and universities on this matter?' In accordance with the above, I would ask myself here with the 30 million that you intend to give for the police at the university, would it not be preferable to support the universities, which supported the country in the event of tackling the health crisis? Which of the great private colleges could provide scientific knowledge, human resources, logistical infrastructure and innovative methods such as the ADI, control the quantity of the viral load in overweight areas so that the responsible parties can be informed in good time and in good time? Ladies and gentlemen, the history of modern Greek education is filled with examples of reforms that have failed or degenerated due to political changes, lack of planning, absence of consensus between parties and fragmented measures, without the involvement and consent of educational bodies. Unfortunately, history repeats itself. These arrangements will not be implemented because they have no real contact with reality. They do not take a single step in dealing with sides of the issue, they do not guarantee the necessary basic consensus, nor even the consensus of the political parties involved in the government. They're deeply classic. They put obstacles and barriers to youth education. They're unconstitutional. They hit the selfishness of universities and put academic freedom and democracy on the plaster. Madam President, I am closing with Frare's words, which emphasises: 'Democracy, like any vision, is not made with declarations, but with contempt and cultivation. He is not my reason for saying that I am a democrat, but my actions." And your actions, Mrs. and Mr. Minister, and the government and this bill, but they testify. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u134	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. You will allow me, ladies and gentlemen, to mention an unpleasant event. I've just been notified that we lost Antonis Kalogannis. I think it is a huge loss to both our culture and to the people of our generation. I want to wish his family and his familiar warmest condolences. Now the Minister of State, Mr Pierracakis, has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u135	Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about a bill which, as the Prime Minister said earlier, has a double character. On the one hand, an opening character in the future, but on the other hand, an unbundling character in relation to the past. The bill is of a coherent nature, concentrated. It regulates topics such as minimum import base, maximum student time, safeguarding well-functioning conditions within universities. It's self-evident. Of course, I think it would be inappropriate to have these examined in fragmentary and non-framework, because all this would be part of a broader target set by the government's political leadership. The aim is very clear: to enable the Greek university to liberate the very great potential it has. In this sense, we have to leave the tree and see the forest. The university has been the most important mechanism for reducing inequalities in history, the most important social mobility strap in history. This is the story of our country, this is the story of our own families. It's the story of the parent who gives up everything to be able to support his child. It is the experience of a young man who dedicates all his actions and all his efforts, who gives something above that, so that he can conquer knowledge and achieve his goals. I personally think it is difficult to see a more touching look than that of a parent who manages to see his child become a scientist. It is an experience that is experienced by thousands of Greek families, it is within the core of our history as a state in the 20th century, in the history of mobility, the great conquest by grandparents to children, to grandchildren, "how much we have managed to progress". At the core of this account is the Greek university. Of course, the university also has a great political role at its core. I read in the "Kathimerini" last Sunday the article by Kostas Jordanides, in which he mentions a story about Theodoros Kolokotronis. As soon as the University of Athens has been built, it shows it to one of his interlocutors and says: "This building will eat that building there." He was showing him the palaces. Politicality has always been in the core. Revolt is, if you want, also at the core of scientific thought. Scientific revolutions are hiding. A new model comes in, disputes the previous one, and the previous model collapses. However, the point of all this is not to translate them wrong. And I think that's what we've done over the last few years. This political reality has been mistranslated many times. It was translated into "revolutionary gymnastics", translated into building party armies within universities. That's a lesson. Let me also be allowed to make a personal reference. I remember from my years as a student - not even a student - what the great debate in education was. It was the issue of security, as we are discussing today, around asylum, if you wish, before, and it was the issue of non-state universities. And I dare say - I think it is objective to describe - that we are one of the few countries on the planet that we are discussing - even a portion of the political system - respectively, 20, twenty-five years later, where the debate has remained firmly. This is a Greek paradox. I don't think anyone's going to easily meet this in another country. It is clear that we must, as a country, say'sufficient' as a political system. Enough on this point that says that politics is management of symbols. We should no longer be dominating around it. The words and symbols of the Civil War and the dictatorship cannot define the course of the Greek University in the 21st century. The old dusted books are of great historical importance, but they are small with the data of today’s era. The world runs and you run and you either choose the still. We can't get locked up in this rhetoric. And I dare say that this has a broader reading. We need emphasis on freedom and security is at the heart of freedom. It must be possible for every opinion to be heard in the university. This goes on to guarantee this bill and quality, the rules, the things that need to be solved, so that this great potential can be liberated. For this very reason, precisely because this bill regulates these things, they deserve congratulations to the Ministry of Education's political leadership, the Minister, the Undersecretaries. It is time to be able to run forward, given that we have trends that speed up things. On the one hand we have major demographic changes, the life of the three phases - education, work, pension - ends and the design of education will be reshaped. On the other hand, we have the fourth industrial revolution and a major technological acceleration, which will also change, will define curricula and education. And within all of this, we have to make our own choices. I close with the following thought: people will run with us or without us, but certainly the word 'adjustment' does not sound pleasant. It's not a pleasant word, especially for a young man. We don't have to adjust. The key word is to imitate, to learn, to see what others do well, but above all to lead. Because we can. It's not relentless to say it. There are signs not only in the education system, not only in the schools and universities of this country, in all its corners, in every area of work - and they are not just islands - which show that there is a potential that can be liberated if we change the rules of the game. And just because this effort of the Ministry of Education, this bill is just trying to do, I urge you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u136	Thank you, too, Minister. Mrs Adamou has the floor for seven minutes. Your Honor, try not to exceed time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, ladies and gentlemen, we are called upon to take a decision and vote on a bill from the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs on higher education, that is to say, at the universities in our country, when the universities themselves have been closed for many months and students have been attending the courses through televised. While you know that this bill raises serious reactions from many aspects, heterogeneous reactions, from students and the rest of the university community to the police associations, why are you bringing this to a vote now? Students have been stepping on their feet in universities for many months. Without even the presence of students at universities, you now want to place police officers, who - by the way - will not even come from the main body of the police, but will be special guards with a six-month period probably or even fewer months' time - can even one month - of dubious quality education, with doubtful quality psychometric tests, who will be in our universities, where young people and young people will be in school from eighteen years' time. How well did you think about that? Their presence in the field of universities will not simply be inefficient. Maybe it's also becoming dangerous. You therefore wish to establish the police force in the universities, led by the Minister of Civil Protection and not by the rectorship, in a way which ignores the unconstitutionality that governs it. Two days ago we submitted a request for unconstitutionality for some articles in this bill. You turned it down. However, this does not deny the fact that there are some articles, such as 12, 14, 15, 16, 18, concerning the establishment of protection teams and the security systems to be placed outside or even inside the universities, which are in breach of paragraph 5 of Article 16 of the Constitution, which concerns the self-government of universities. As also the paragraph 1 of Article 16 is violated, as Greek Police with the universities as co-responsible for the collection and processing of personal data, either by the teaching staff or by the students. This can lead to serious problems and constraints, both in the freedom of academic expression and in the promotion of research and science. Instead of increasing the funding of universities for research, study, writing and logistical upgrading and infrastructure, you reduce it, to hire a thousand special guards, who will go around the spaces of the universities and exercise power, with what this may mean. It is only enough to remember the findings of the Alivizatou Committee on Police Violence in Greece, which you as the Ministry of Civil Protection submitted to the House in November. A characteristic example is the recent beating of the PhD candidate by police in Thessaloniki, because he was simply entering the university at the same time as he was conducting a course. As you know, the protection of universities against criminal offences is already part of the operational tasks of the police, which is, however, totally ineffective in terms of identifying and arresting illegal circuits that have been acting for years - and I can confirm that from my own experience - within and around the universities, at the University of Thessaloniki and at the University of Macedonia. The piece of legislation... (it wasn't heard because of a bad connection)...whether it actually did not work. So you can accept and admit his failure. Madam Minister, we are not making a sterile opposition. We are proposing solutions, but you are not listening to us. Since 2019, we have proposed that there should be protection in our universities, students, teachers and public property, but that protection according to the western standards of universities, which you so much invoke, which is subject to the university itself, deaning and not the Ministry, as you have in this bill. That's how you do it. (it wasn't heard because of a bad connection)...the self-interest of universities and you harm academic freedom. In place of this, place fear and conservativeity and continue unsatisfactory, you wish to vote in favour of a bill in the middle of the school year, leaving out of our public and free universities for over twenty-four thousand candidate students. Have you wondered, once and for all, how the families of these students who have given this year's full-fledged examinations are taking care of their children? Why do you think they're doing this? But for a better future for their children, so that they can enter the highest public education in our country and thus help their children to fulfill their dreams. These dreams are that you're demolished, and that doesn't have the right to do it. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] In addition, you seem to ignore the fact that the low performance of the pan-Hellenic exams does not rule out any further improvement in the performance of students and students during their studies. You establish a distorted reasoning, that the high import bases automatically ensure a higher level of study in universities, while we know very well how challenging the issues of the pan-Hellenic examinations are, since the teachers themselves too, if they were to be examined at the same courses, would be difficult to get a '20' grade in all the courses. And unfortunately you don't stop here either. Ignore the trouble and hardship of some students who are forced to work many times and black to complete their studies. Because this is obviously unknown to you and your circles. Other students interrupt studies for a period of time due to some health problem All these students, therefore, who have exceeded their curriculum years will throw them out of their schools, just like that. What for? Since they are not even to the least burdened by the Greek state, since students' privileges cease anyway in six years and are not even entitled to writing. However, you are introducing 'n+2', i.e. six years for four years for study programmes and 'n+3' for five years and six years for study programmes. The purpose of this draft law remains the same, not to turn our young people into public university education, to make the introduction of children into it extremely difficult, so that then there is no alternative but to necessarily turn to private IEKs and colleges, which you have already equated to their professional rights with the IEWs, even though we all know that their level remains very low in relation to our universities. By the way, I would like to remind you how high Greek public universities are in the world rankings, especially the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u138	Complete, Mrs. Adamou. It is a long list.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u139	I shall conclude, Mr President. ... (It didn't sound because of a bad In particular, the Department of History of the School of Philosophy of Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, whose proud graduate I am, is in the 10th place on the world ranking in this field. So stop downgrading the Greek public universities and give them the attention they deserve. Our universities must be strengthened and the academic community must be protected, while maintaining the self-sufficiency of universities. Your bill brings economic and psychological exhaustion to families, students, students and teachers. I have told you in committee, and I will tell you again and now: you are withdrawing and withdrawing this bill. You can make it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. Now the Deputy Minister, Mr Catafados, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u141	Thank you very much, Mr President. In such an important bill, and at these difficult times that our country is going through, I did not intend to come to speak, but, unfortunately, in the performance of my ministerial duties, I was informed of the unacceptable, insulting and all-false attack which I have received - I also accept from Mr. Friends every day and from the TV panels - and from the Chief of Officers of the Anti-Policy, Mr. Tsipras. But let me speak and say two words about the bill. Is there anyone, ladies and gentlemen, who does not think there should be a wall, a base minimum, so that our young people and young people can enter universities? Are we proud to enter students and what graduates come out when the average of their degree of introduction is ‘2’ and ‘3’? So we promote public universities, so we help the new generation, or are we trying to build armies of eternal students and long-term unemployed? But I'll come to the second part, and I'm glad to see Mr. Friend, who's coming in. The second part, namely the second article of this bill, has lifted too much dust. Is it possible in 2021 to sit and discuss how we will be able to deal with all this violence in universities? Is it possible, ladies and gentlemen, to put an asterisk or to introduce all these terrorist activities, which are done by a portion of students and outside universities too many times, and not to be an essential way of dealing with the problem? And what did the Minister say? He said we're creating this body, which isn't going to be in all the universities, but it's going to be where the problem is. And this body will only work for as long as it takes, so that the class can come to the universities, so that there can be security for all students and that there can be genuine asylum of ideas, ladies and gentlemen. Because the alleged person, as you turned around and said too many times, has seen that in fact, Mr Philly, there was no asylum of ideas. I'm talking about the suspect. Because I am now in this sacred step to speak - not to apologize to Mr Tsipras or Mr Philly, I do not need it - and to represent a generation of liberal youths who have participated in the procedures in universities and who have been struggling to be free to speak, to be democratic, for the student youth of the New Democracy, for the independent student youth, for the IGC - NGC, who has been protagonists and continues to be protagonists in the spaces of universities, which was the one who spoke about postgraduate, to be able to strengthen students' studies, was the one who spoke about 'ERASMUS' programmes, which was the one that wanted universities openly and not to close them down on what would be the size of the cheese or about what is going on in Afghanistan or what is going on in Iran, as the students were, so that they did not wanting a little bit of money for them. I am here, therefore, to represent all these liberal young people who have fought for a better public university, but also to be able to make this clearing effort which has tried to do so. So, for the Minutes, ladies and gentlemen, I am presenting the decision of the Court of Justice in Piraeus, where after a complaint had been filed by the then Rector of the University of Piraeus on an incident, which we had condemned unequivocally, accused all of the student association, the members of the IGC, the members of the PSP, eight students, seven of my classmates, had accused the then dean of the University of Piraeus, where there is the irreversible, final and unanimous decision of all eight. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] So I would like you to inform Mr. Tsipras that he did not send any Katsafads and no student of the Student Association of the University of Piraeus to the hospital at the time of the Dean. But, not to talk about what happened at the time, I am delighted to present the announcement made by the University of Piraeus today, after this eight lies of the Chief of Staff of Anti-Population, which the current Rector of the University of Piraeus, who was an eyewitness to that bias and who, in order to avoid any clearing and a matching, does not agree with this bill, has a different view on many issues of the bill. But I also file the press release of the University of Piraeus, which says I wasn't even at the university then that day, as it turns out in court, Mr. Phile. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Maritime Affairs and Islands Policy, Mr Constantine Katsafandos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practices.]] But you know what? I understand, I understand, Mr Colleague, that you, your comrades, a young man, a son of a 'batsu' - so you say the policemen, that is the reality - from a family of the middle class, who did not live and grew up in the rich and in the palaces, as you say we are all porphyryborn, who fought in the Greek universities, who is proud of his action, their ideas and his like-minded ideas, and who has the pleasure and honour of supporting him tens of thousands of his fellow citizens. I'm telling you, I didn't come here to apologize to you. I come because I have an obligation, ladies and gentlemen, to make sure that this is done. We're not all the same. I'm proud, because all my years at the university, Mr. Friend, I've been struggling to open the universities when you and your children were struggling to keep the universities closed. I'm proud, Mr. Friend, because I'm the son of a batsu, as you say. Why was the son of one of your colleagues, who was arrested as a member of a terrorist organization with a gun and a grenade when the prosecutor asked him and said to him: 'What would you do with it? Would you use these weapons?', his answer was: 'Only for police officers'. And when the prosecutor asked him, you who are cut for the police: “Why? Are they not human?’ he replied: “No, it is the long hand of the law.” And when I went to steal the bank, I went to expropriate, not rob the bank! So we're not the same. We are not the witnesses who are going to defend the terrorists, the "bulkies" to the anarchists, to those who fly molotov, to those who destroy and plunder Greek property. We're not the same. And I'm sorry, I'm very sorry, but, as I told you, I had to come here for the thousands of young people in New Democracy, for the Prime Minister and Minister who are fighting, for the country that goes to normality. I come here to talk about the self-evident, having only one obligation: against these children, against the legacy that my mother and my father left me and against the legacy that I must leave to my daughter, not you. You were, you are, and you will continue to be the greatest liars that have passed through the Greek Parliament. And if I speak in this excellent way right now - and I apologise and apologise - by closing, Mr President, in 2012, when I was first elected a Member, I was following the gathering that Alexis Tsipras held in Omonia in June 2012 and saw a terrible banner. I shook up when I saw the slogan he wrote: "It was us or them." We, Mr. Philly, are here to be together. You continue this division and feed it by lying and by populism. It won't pass you. As you stayed re-tested and didn't get your degree, so you'll be re-electioned in your policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, I would like to speak as a parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u143	I too, Mr President, would like to speak on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u144	Mr. Philie, what is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u145	It's self-evident!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u146	You'll hear it now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u147	Explain it, please. You have a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u148	Listen. Mr. Katsafados tried, from a defendant who is in the conscience of many thousands of Greek citizens, to turn himself into a prosecutor. I'm returning the mantle of what he said in here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u149	The truth! The truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u150	Silence, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u151	Do not interrupt, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u152	This isn't the University of Piraeus to fly rockets and fire-fighting missiles.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u153	The truth!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u154	Mr. Katasfado, don't interrupt. You didn't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u155	This gentleman gave a performance on his morale today in the House. It doesn't matter anyone talking more about him. He tried to tell us that the people's vote is laundry and that he was allegedly voted for by rewarding what he has committed. And on the Golden Dawn people voted, they didn't acquit her, though. I would like to stress that this gentleman, who, following the successive complaints both here and the press for so many years, has come to speak, has tried to appear as a representative of the IAS, the generation of the IAS, EMU. I don't know if that morale responds to thousands of children who have voted and voted for the IGC, that spirit in here, and when it was a student. One thing I would like to ask: is he then deleted from his resignation or not - he has been written in the press and has not been disproved - to block him against the dean, who was more disgusting and fascist than what happened to Mr Burantoni in ASE? To exclude the fascist at the expense of the dean was this gentleman deleted from the IGC at the time or not? I do not want today's announcements that respond to today's political status. And I'll be done. We're not lying. What we were and are: transparent and in the Greek people's crisis. I say this again: we are also transparent in the Greek people's crisis. We're not pulling, we're not fascists, Mr. Katsafando. Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u156	Good. Mr Skourletis, you have the floor as a parliamentary representative of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I should like to express on behalf of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group our grief for the loss of Antonis Kalogannis, a truly popular authentic performer, who marked many of us with his songs. I take the floor, first of all, to refer to Mr Pierracakis' speech a moment ago, because it was indeed an intervention, both in content and in a style quite different from everything that was on the part of the government. Mr. Pierracakis made a reference to the correct historical example of what Theodoros Kolokotronis said about the university at the time. Indeed, on the occasion of this reference, he identified the content, the role of a university as a permanent place of questioning, searching and even described him as a revolutionary one. What does the Minister have to do with what she said yesterday, that there must be no ideological fermentation and ideological search in universities, only to produce 'prozektakis'? Let's call it in terms that she can understand. The second thing I want to say is this again for Mr Pierrakakis. He referred to the challenges of our time, the major overthrows, not only on the occasion of the pandemic, but on the grounds of the invasion of new technologies. That's right. It is not enough, however, for anyone to observe. In particular, the political forces are not doing journalistic work here. It is important, in the face of the challenges of the time, that you be able to show a new plan, which will serve the case of human liberation for fewer hours of work, less exploitation and emancipation. That is what humanity is all about. This is the constant struggle, and not the introduction, for example, of teleworking to be an opportunity to return to a job in the unfinished hours of work, without collective agreements. The debate that is taking place today in Europe on the issue of the right to cut-off, the disconnection of workers working in terms of teleworking. And now we're getting in bad. I would simply say that Mr Katsafandou's presence is a little challenging. Brain? And that can't describe what happened here. With Mr. Katsafandos, we're done with the same university. I'm done with the University of Piraeus and I'm done before you. I, as well as Mr Philis, when we were trade union representatives, defended the right of the then minority, of the DPRK - when other forces did not want to give them the floor - and I call for the testimony of George Vulgarakis - precisely because we believed deeply in democracy. We have never thought of doing what Mr Katsafandos has done, for which the Prime Minister has said nothing, which is currently representing a vicious, sinful establishment in universities, that part of the PPP - PPP that he wanted to bring up teachers. And he comes here to ask for the change, invoking his social origin. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. It comes with the practice of a hard party mechanism, which shook the universities. That's the epilepsy. And this highlights the hypocrisy not of Mr. Katsafandou, but of the entire government, which did not have the sensitivity to take away its distance. The question was raised a moment ago by Mr Philis. Did it, even temporarily, be deleted from the SGP? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u158	Mr. Katasfadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u159	Is there anything you're gonna say about the point? I brought you the court ruling. You're not going to say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u160	We're not a court.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u161	But you're a liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u162	Liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u163	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u164	When there's a court order, you have to respect it. You are not respecting the judgments of the courts. For today's dean? About the university announcement? Nothing. A quiz for the quilt. As long as, Mr Skourletis and Mr Friends, for the decision of the NRP - NRP, then can you not understand the qualitative difference we have? Obviously, for any member of EMU and the IGC, when a criminal prosecution is conducted, he temporarily loses his party status. That's pureness. That shows principles. That shows values. That shows respect. That is why, Mr Philadelphia and Mr Skourletis, after the court's clear decision I became a secretary of the Central Commission and Vice-President of EMU. So I'm innocent. I never felt guilty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u165	As much as the Golden Dawn...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u166	I was innocent in court. I was innocent at my classmates. I'm guilty of you. This is an honor for me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u167	We're on the list. Mrs. Chabica Iatridis has the floor for seven minutes. Please, all colleagues put the clock next door. In six minutes I'll let you know and in seven minutes you'll be stopped. There are many colleagues and we still have a way to go. All of you have the clock next door, because you don't hear the bell that warns. Here, my colleague, you can start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the New Democracy's basic pre-election commitments was to protect academic freedom, to end immunity and to substantially upgrade the academic environment. This is what I believe was one of the main reasons why the Greek people supported and trusted the New Democracy and entrusted it with the responsibility for our country's governance. Therefore, with this bill, we are doing nothing but honouring this confidence. We are doing nothing but satisfying a constant request from Greeks and Greeks for a modern public university. For we must not forget that public Greek universities are the property of the Greek people. It is property that comes from its weakness and aims to ensure through education a better, promising future for our children. Ladies and gentlemen, since post-Culture, we have seen the following: those who allegedly support academic freedom and freedom of speech are those who, in practice, terrorize and fade their view that they are not pleasurable. Those who allegedly are cut off for the public Greek university are the same who in the name of a "revolutionary gymnastics" destroy public property, destroy the public university. Those who allegedly care about the survival of the Greek public university are the ones who deceive it. They are the ones who, for unrelated reasons, are taking over the university buildings, without any democratic process being followed. Let me say this clearly, those who are supposed to care about the Greek public university in the end are the ones who, through their actions, turn their parents and students into Greek colleges working with foreign universities or sending their children directly abroad. And this is the greatest paradox, the greatest hypocrisy experienced by Greek and Greek women. And worst of all, these are a minimal minority, which has already been condemned to the vast majority of academics, students, Greek citizens. Let us make something clear about security conditions in foreign universities, private and public. There, no one, but no one, thinks of doing acts of violence and destruction of property, because he knows that he will face very hard consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a duty towards the Greek people to do everything we can to obtain a Greek public university in which knowledge is promoted, and to ensure academic freedom and expression of all views, without violence, without terrorism, with respect for all views, so that everyone can judge, be able to participate, be able to become socialists of the democratic process. Ladies and gentlemen, we are at the end of a marathon meeting. Both the Minister and the State Secretarys, the rapporteur of the New Democracy and my fellow Members have referred to the deep areas of this bill. As an islander in an aesthetic and nationally sensitive region, such as the Dodecanese, I would like to express my deep gratitude and trust in the teachers, the administrative staff and students of the Aegean University, a university that honors his role and is an acquisition for all our remote islands, with significant discrimination abroad for his research work. I think we can strengthen it. There are already criteria for funding and each university has the self-employed to decide how to make available. Perhaps, at this point, we should also be able to set out specific criteria for universities located in remote regions which support this funding. Finally, I would like to conclude with one more proposal, Minister: when the pandemic and the particular conditions we are living for are over, we may have to reconstitute the incentives possible by double moleculosis to substitute teachers, so that they can come to the schools of our remote islands. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is another step towards upgrading education in our country, another step towards a modern Greece, another step towards creating citizens who are ready to face the challenges of our time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u169	And we thank you for the consistency and the economy in time. Mr George Tsipras has the floor now by SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, we should note after what Mr Katsafandos said that either the dean himself opened the fire extinguisher then and he inhaled or the fire extinguisher decided to attack himself on the teachers and the dean, however, not the DAD or Mr. Katsafandos. I'm actually coming. We have a bill that is a sign tabled by the Mitsotakis Government - Samaras, as is Mr Katsafandos and his style and what he said is a sign tabled by this government. Together with bankruptcy law are two legislative aggressive initiatives by the government, which, in other European countries, are postponed for the aftermath of the pandemic here, the government is taking advantage of pandemic, so that it can now go to the pandemic, like thieves. The first question: Kerameos with Mr Chrysochoidis puts forward a bill that basically does: establishing university police, adding some disciplinary measures to universities, which means that they will not be able to obtain a degree in many thousands of students from those who are already studying, because they will not be able to pay their studies, reduce incoming and other arrangements. For all this, there is a basic argument from the relevant ministers and others that it concerns their interest in improving university and public university education. To ask a first question: From what they have done so far for a year and a half, is there any evidence to show that they are being cut for public universities and, more generally, for public education? Evidently something else is of interest to the government that passes this bill and not to their improvement. How, for example, have public universities been strengthened so far? In what way have students, who are increasingly unable to continue their studies, have been strengthened? In what way have students’ homes been strengthened, left to their fate? How is care for economically weak students? There's none of this. In order to go to secondary education, which operates in the middle of quarantine with teleworking, there were no elementary measures taken in other European countries to cover the necessary equipment for families in need. By the way, I should like to point out that I am not aware of the unexplained phenomenon - I do not know if they have asked a specialist, a teacher - to teach children an exotic lesson in front of a screen, as if they had taken a living lesson. Have they asked anyone if that's useful, if it's productive, if it's healthy, what they're doing? It's a really big impression. Recently I learned that even the gymnastics teach it as a theoretical lesson. I'm coming back to the subject of universities. There has been no slightest interest in the government for over a year and a half to support universities, nor has Mrs Kerameau revealed what her vision of public universities is, how many students, namely, intend to attend them or whether, on the contrary, we will have a dramatic decline. However, what she said earlier to the Chief of Officerial Response, "you know there are public IEKs" makes it clear that her aim is precisely to reduce those students in public universities dramatically. The university police, which obviously wants to impose a rule of law and a order of the East European or Turkey, are coming together. However, it does not relate to the proper functioning of universities, because there is the very simple question: When in Greece the proportion of teachers - students is one to forty and in Europe is one to fifteen, does it not pass them at all by the minds of special guards in order to open up more teaching staff? One example is that. So I come to where the government intends with this bill. First of all, as far as Mrs Kerameau is concerned, I do not want to add anything. He had an agenda from the outset quite aggressive, and that is why he was unspeakable. She was aggressive about 95% of Greek society and that's why she was hidden. I don't want to say anything else. However, I would like to point out the fact that there cannot suddenly be a university police because there has been an incident - as bad as it may have been - in ASEAN. In other words, he cannot tomorrow - tomorrow if, for example, a terrible crime occurs - Mr Chrysochoidis because he will get upset, want to change the Criminal Code or reinstate the death penalty or so on. This was obviously design beforehand. That is why I say it was a secret agenda or there is absolutely no seriousness in the government. This is not how we change policies. This is not how we draw up policies because there was an incident that was very negative, etc. But I want to say two words about Mr. Syragos. Mr Syrigos, who is distinguished by a political culture, which does not distinguish many government officials, does not have or at least does not seem to have a secret agenda. However, he has the negative impression that he is easily retreating from his own agenda and from what he said before and on the issue of national issues - perhaps because he was ministred, I do not know - but also on the question of education. He has been attacked, which I respect, and I am sure that at the time he fell offense he did not have the ideas he has today for university police and other disciplinary measures within the university. I want to close by making two points. The first concerns a personal experience. In 1991 the Polytechnic Rectorship was burned, unfortunately. I was a student at the time, and I was a student in the Rectory. There were decisions by all the students' associations for the occupation of the Polytechnic and I was inside the Rectoria, inside the Polytechnic. I can, therefore, witness - because I was an eyewitness - the constant efforts of MAT policemen to achieve by tearing the top right dean's fireplace, which does not have an outside window so that tear gas can enter. At some point the glass was broken, they made it, the tear gas went in, the papers were on fire and the dean burned. In short, the Mayorship of 1991, which is referred to as an example at the time of the lifting of asylum and later to reach the present situation, was burned by the police. That was denounced at the time. There was no substantial investigation. I imagine that Mr Chrysochoidis, if he were then Minister for Civil Protection, would not do so, as many people have shown. I am saying this to say that, even today, if I was a student and completely non-party, I would do everything I can to prevent this unacceptable provision from being applied, this monstrous instrument for European democratic culture by the university police. And I hope that today's youth too, because it has clearly more democratic reflexes of freedom than the ruling party, will not allow this legislation to be implemented. However, even so - most likely not to be implemented - there is the question: Will the government have achieved something? He's got it. He will have hired out of ADP a thousand other two hundred guards, so a thousand other two hundred election clients, as he did with the other three hundred special guards who also hired outside ADP, whose names often - and unfortunately we hear in the various police notes. The second point, which I would like to make, concerns the kind of Mitsotakis - Samaras government's macho-right that governs the place. Not all right-wings are the same in Western Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u171	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u172	Do I have a minute, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u173	No, you've spent your time and gone to eight minutes. Please close, please, because I hear you've been finishing a long time ago.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u174	I didn't say it again. In a minute, I'm done. For example, the French Right, if not Lepense's Right, has the public national education too high. A republican in the US: It is another thing that he understands that there is climate change and another Trub fan who considers all these conspiracies, fairy tales and goes by saying. I would like to say that here we have a Right of Mr Mitsotakis, who, in my opinion, does not even speak of that part of the Right which is, in any case, a modern right and brings various legislations, which combine a neoliberal tertiary world on the one hand and, on the other, a completely retardant, almost darkening conception of things, which the majority cannot agree with not only of university intellectuals but, on the other, of the whole, of educated people. That's why you're going to fall soon. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr. Tsipras. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has requested the floor. Here, Mr. Brutsi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, I take the floor to restore the honour, the reputation of Parliament. And I say that with the special weight of the words I use. For in this Chamber, Mr President, if anything, honour and reputation are the duty and duty of all of us. Yesterday we saw Mr. Tsipras coming to the Chamber with great anxiety trying to restore the slip in which he fell into his interview and related to what will remain in political history within the pandemic period to say that 'I take the risk'. But from yesterday and all day and with the focus of the main speech of the Chief of Officer's Anti-Population, Mr. Tsipras, who for 50 minutes was a speech that said nothing, but said only one thing and there he focused on his position, namely that he focused his criticism on Kostas Katsafados, who, apart from being my friend, I honor him, appreciate him and I support him as a person and as a political presence. He didn't have the courage today, the Qualified Opposition. Well, he made the gave one more time today. The whole story of Mr. Tsipras collapsed after Mr. Katsafandou's very well-integrated speech, which he came to reply to Mr. Tsipras' second slip, which you do not protect and put him at the heart of his argument to say about Mr. Katsafandos. Didn't you have the courage to apologize to Mr. Katsafandos, Mr. Skourletis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u177	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u178	Mr. President, I read.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u179	.....................................................................................................................................................................
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u180	This is Left.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u181	Mr. Philly, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u182	Mr President, I read about restoring the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u183	What are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u184	Please, Mr. Philly, wear your mask and don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u185	Mr President, you see they've lost their feet. They can't find an argument to stand. I read: 'The court unanimously relieves the accused and there is no question'. He's declaring them innocent. Judiciary judgment of 2007.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u186	What charges?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u187	Mr. Skourlet, please don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u188	I'll read the press release of February 11, 2021, at Piraeus University. I think that Mr. Angelo Cotio, the dean, you know him. I personally met him. My son's finished the University of Piraeus, the financial. I know his composition, his responsibility and his authority. Says the Rector - Press Release of the University of Piraeus - the following: "To restore the truth and on the occasion of articles and repeated public statements about alleged involvement by the Deputy Minister of Shipping and Island Policy Mr. Konstantinos Katsafandou in an incident against former Dean of the University of Piraeus, I expressly declare as today's Rector of the Foundation and as eyewitness of the incident that Mr. Katsafandos did not only participate but was not in the field at this time." That is what we are talking about, Mr President and Minister. "This is an incident in which all students alleged to be involved were officially acquitted by Greek justice." I'm not going to file the document. He's already been filed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u189	This is what you're doing, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u190	And you don't have, as we say in the Cyclades, the pity to apologize, Mr. Skourletis? [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Don't you have a philosopher? You charged a man unjustly, and today he filed his innocence papers. Shame on you! Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u191	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u192	Don't shoot at each other and I would ask the stenographers to delete the words that Mr. Friend has written. They are unacceptable to the Greek Parliament. On my own responsibility, they're erased...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u193	What did I say, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u194	I heard. But I'll tell you in private, because I don't even like to say it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u195	What did I say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u197	Please, what Mr Philis said, which did not have the floor, should be deleted. Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u198	Here too, they are striving to gather uncomfortables because the maximum hypocrisy of an entire government and a propaganda mechanism, supposedly concerned with lawlessness in universities, was revealed, while at the same time it has not the courage, the openness to denounce specific cases that exist and are undisputed. Obviously, it has absolutely nothing to do with the fact of an acquittal decision. Why was Mr. Katasafandus accused? For intentional homicide, for anything else? This is about the court. We're not on trial here. Did it happen or didn't it happen? It happened. Were the RDP protagonists? It was. Was it temporarily erased for that? Deleted. These are the facts that neither the Minister nor the Prime Minister... I'm not talking about the parliamentary representative. Same as it is. We saw Mr. Katsafandou's face, and we saw your style and style.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u200	Please, Mr. Brutsi, there's no need now. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u201	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u202	I can't go on with this ping pong. Some colleagues are waiting. Here, say a word, but that's not possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Prove once again how small political you are, gentlemen of SYRIZA. Today, Mr. Tsipras' 50-minute speech in the complaint about Mr. Katsafados was "solidated". We bring you court decisions and Mr. Skourletis makes judge and says other things.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u204	Good. That's what they heard. Everyone gives their own answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u205	Oh, my God! You're a doomed minority of make news.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u206	It offends your party!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Brutsi, you don't have the floor anymore. We are now continuing with colleagues who are anxiously awaiting it. Mrs Anna Karamanlis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in modern republics universities are the ideal area for the development of innovations and critical thinking. Education policy for universities is called upon to balance between the independence of universities as institutions of critical thinking, freedom and basic research on the one hand and the integration and adaptation of universities into changing economic and technological developments in a highly competitive world on the other. Faithful in our programme and our commitments, we are tabling a draft law on education with an exact hierarchy of objectives and reform interventions at universities, which aims to solve the pathogenesis of decades and, of course, responds to what we had announced in the election. It takes political will to respond with seriousness and sense of responsibility to move on to substantive reforms. And this has been achieved by the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the relevant Minister, Niki Kerameos. In addition, the majority of society is in favour of regulation. Let us remind those who disagree that there are also the voters of SYRIZA and KINAL in the last national election. The bill serves a double target and is divided into two axes. The first axis relates to academic introduction and university study. The second axis concerns the overall upgrading of the university's academic environment. What is new introduced: The minimum import base, defined by each university section according to the performance of candidates, is established and then those who fail will be able to choose any other department they want and have vacant posts. The new model will improve in each section the proportion of active students per PPC member, solving serious problems of Greek universities. Ladies and gentlemen, the introduction of the minimum import base as a prerequisite for the introduction into the higher education departments is a proper and necessary measure, aimed at ensuring the academic conditions of successful study and the early completion of studies. We saw that in previous years candidates with very low rated performance have entered university courses, so that they cannot meet the high requirements of certain schools and get caught in the various curriculum without the objective cognitive facilities for obtaining qualifications or trying to finish them without being able to do so, because they are studying something they do not want. With the entry into force of this measure, higher education will be upgraded and, for the labour market, graduates channelled to it will fully meet the needs and gaps that will arise. The aim of the change is to ensure the academic conditions of successful study and early completion of studies. The government is approaching the problem and is trying to deal with it with the new education programmes in kindergarten, primary, high school and high school. We are primarily concerned with the proper and fuller preparation of our students in order not to be locked into universities and curricula that they do not want or cannot respond. Good preparation is the best guarantee for our children, and that should be our concern. This is the basic provision for the continuity of studies, that is to say proper preparation. In another important provision now under discussion of a draft law, the introduction of a higher education ceiling is coming to solve a chronic problem. There are little examples of people who have no contact with the school to whom they entered and owe almost all of the examination courses. It is necessary to have a curriculum limit, as the percentage of eternal students is about 40% of all students studying in tertiary education. In addition to this, the presence of eternal students in departments with a high proportion of students per member PPC, especially in schools in humanitarian and social sciences, has essentially led to the abolition of systematic teaching and the conversion of universities into mass inquiries. Of course, special arrangements for students are rightly provided for, who are forced to temporarily discontinue their studies for health reasons or for biopolitics, work. Based on ELSTAT's latest figures for 2017, 20% of students worked. It is assumed that a piece of students will be able to study or even contribute to the family budget. That is why the provision in the bill to extend study time. With regard to the criticism of public education for the benefit of private purposes, this is indeed a very big misunderstanding. The increased number of admissions leads many candidates to join schools that are not their first option and then to leave their studies. The Ministry of Education's plan provides for a limited number of options in the first phase of the computerised document. Then, after the announcement of the new import bases, as they will be formed by the new system, there will be the second completion phase and there will be participation by those left out of the first phase. In addition, for the first time, a parallel computerised data sheet is available for study in a public IEK. A candidate will therefore be able to submit a parallel computer for entry into an EIO, based on his performance in the pan-Hellenic examinations, and secondly, a computer for subscription to a public IEK, on the basis of his certificate and additional criteria, in accordance with the IEK's Rules of Procedure. Ladies and gentlemen, the choices of study in the context of the transition from secondary to higher education are an extremely critical stage in one's training course, since academic paths are then directly linked to professional routes. The Greek university today does not communicate satisfactorily with the labour market, with Greek society and the international university and research environment. Freedom of speech, the pioneering of ideas, innovation in research and creative questioning are the foundations of the modern university. The statutory protection of every area of the Greek territory when criminal offences are committed should not be confused with the effective preservation of universities, which would prevent or minimise phenomena that are blatantly insulting and disproved by the Greek universities. Society understands that there is a problem and that is very serious and that is on our side. We should not underestimate that. Do you really not touch the anxiety of the Greek family for a safe student? Shouldn't you listen to them? Don't you need safekeeping? Of course she needs safekeeping. And of course we don't meet the same incidents in all the universities. University spaces, however, are often used for foreign purposes for the transmission of knowledge, research and public scientific debate. Ladies and gentlemen, we want an upgraded public university, open, safe and quality, because Greek students and universities do not enjoy an environment equivalent to Europe, do not enjoy the environment they deserve. Education is a matter for everyone, and as a public good it is an obligation for the state to strengthen and protect it. The future of universities must concern us all, and that is why criticism is essential. The reform of the Greek universities has to overcome time-consuming problems, both at institutional and management level, and the draft law forms part of the broader framework of the overall reform for a more autonomous, modern and innovative higher education system and for dealing with chronic pathogens. The time has come for education to be upgraded and our universities to reflect the future with optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u209	And we thank Mrs Karamanlis. The speaker of SYRIZA, Evangelos Apostolos, has the floor. You have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy Ministers and colleagues, with your bill you have upset the field of education. It's a bill that supports his business on a poll-based account. You have not taken into account the thousands of citizens who, despite all the intimidation and the imperial police rule, dare to protest in the streets. You have not taken into account what the President-in-Office said, most of the representatives of the institutions, but also the opposition. They all say that with the new system of introduction to higher education, with the application of dual engineering and the increase in bases, you will leave one out of the four graduates in high school over the last year. They all say, therefore, that because state funding for higher education is linked to the number of students registered, several parts of regional universities will be faced with sustainability problems and will be faced with the risk of being closed down. So they all say that schooling in public universities will only be a privilege to those who have guaranteed their financial support and those who can avoid any misfortune that may delay their students. Those who, in other words, need to work together with their studies - because there are such things - or those who do something that is unavoidable to them that is going to delay them beyond the limit set are excluded from the right to education and vocational rehabilitation. So they all say that the issues of university security and security have been overcrowded so that the state of the right can control every core of independent expression. So, is that not public opinion? However, for Mrs Kerame, these views are simply different positions, which are perfectly legitimate and are a wealth for democracy, without, of course, taking into account. Manual example of the intentions and results of the Legislation of the Ministry of Education and of the New Democracy as a whole are the laws 4653/2020 on higher education, and 4763/2020 on vocational education. I have heard, ladies and gentlemen, a moment ago, the Deputy Minister for Rural Development, to develop his views on the bill. But I did not hear him say what is going to happen to the professional schools of "ELGO DIMITRA" of the Ministry of Rural Development and Food. They are schools with recognized work and seekers from those who wish to train in order to engage in rural activities. There is no mention in this bill of law of any concern for the continuation of their operation and the use of their experience and offer. With Law 4653/2020 on higher education, the government attacked the strengthening of the regional universities that we had established in order to suspend the operation of the thirty-seven new university departments. Among these are three sections of the National Kapodistrian University of Athens, founded in Psachna, Evia. The reassessment that you have decided, Minister, is not based anywhere, neither on curricula and operational procedures, nor on lack of funding. So why are you ignoring all this and invoking all of it, how much more so when the National University of Athens not only embraced this regulation, but thought it would contribute to its own upgrading? Of course, regional universities will be faced with a problem, both because of candidates and because of the basis for introduction. The first problem that will arise, ladies and gentlemen, is that these sections will determine themselves as a first-class or a secondary one, setting their own gravity factor. A new section, which cannot in fact have a history of high import bases, will either be required to describe itself as a secondary section or not to have any incoming. The second problem is that, based on the statistics of the last two years, approximately 30% of the candidates in the first, second, third and fourth fields are excluded. The third problem is that there is provision for evaluation of the new sections before they complete a full-time four-year cycle. All of this, together with the possible partial filling of the offered positions, will lead the new sections to a difficult position. With the arrangements you make, then, ladies and gentlemen of the government, they will not only close several sections of the regional universities, but will also collapse wholeheartedly. The vote of your bill affects not only academic freedom, but mainly regional education. For all these reasons, we are certainly voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u211	Thank you to Mr Apostle, who was consistent in time. Mr Theodoros Karaoglu has the floor for seven minutes from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm putting the timer on, too, so I can be consistent. Ladies and gentlemen, the reforms that the Ministry of Education promotes through the changes that are taking place in the Greek universities are curing outcrowded pathogens, which have for decades been stirring up higher education in our country and which we almost all recognise in this Chamber, but we also admit. And I say almost everyone, because I am sad to see that the opposition, and especially the Criticism, is still questioning the problem itself. On the substance, ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are discussing today is 'extending' to the illegality of the universities. It satisfys a lasting and universal demand for radical changes in the field of education, closing an open wound, which for years has remained unhealthy. We are therefore facing the problem in the face of the problem and, knowing that there are no easy solutions, we are attempting an institutional section that aims to upgrade the education received by students from the Greek universities so that higher education can fulfil its social mission. Since, in a few days' time, it has been two hundred years since the revolution of 1821, we must offer our state a better system of higher education. After all, as we all know and mentioned in the Constitution, education is a key task of the state and has the responsibility of forming our compatriots into free and responsible citizens. Plato explained it by writing that "children are the force that cultivates the soul". The bill we are discussing reshapes the obsolete operating framework, which is still in place, and breaks the bonds that hold higher education hostage of an ideologically obsessive yesterday. In other words, it places a class in the vulnerability that they attempt to impose certain directed minorities and correct situations which in no way penalise the validity of higher education. In short, our children deserve a better university and we offer it to them. With the regulations contained in the bill, we establish the minimum basis for introduction to higher education, we change the way in which the computers are filled, we put an end to the phenomenon of eternal students and upgrade the academic environment through the protection of academic freedom. And I come to the first. With the minimum basis for admission to universities, we ensure the academic preconditions of successful study and early completion of studies. Consider that students are currently enrolled in the pan-Hellenic examinations even with a degree of "1", "2" and "3", while almost 30% of students never graduate. Changing the way in which computerised forms are filled, we give greater weight to the expressed preference of candidates in university import departments. For example, with a limited number of options in the computerised prospectus today, a student may end up enrolling in a department that is his last choice. This results in these students not attending school courses because they do not care, because, as I said before, they were accidentally found at the last school of their choice, but by taking the place of someone who really wishes to study in this department. So, with this arrangement, we encourage conscious choices, by achieving a reduction in the number of successful students at random school. In relation to the issue of eternal students, we are clear that its management is not fiscal but educational. We send a message of focus to the educational process by dismantling higher education institutions and contributing decisively to the faster absorption of graduates into the labour market. On the security and protection unit of universities, it is clear, very clearly, that this is not an ideological option, but a necessary act. It is not just a question of violence, ladies and gentlemen, it is also a question of education, and that is how it should be done in our country. It is not a game of rights, as some are artificially trying to show it, but analogy of common sense with attitudes, practices and behaviours of raw violence, which hurt and stigmatize Greek universities. Unfortunately, in recent decades, the arbitraryness of universities has become a norm. That is why we have come to the point of confusing democracy with immunity. We have all witnessed images where teachers are "built" at their offices or prevalent by "semi-children". And, taking a step further and ending lawlessness at universities, we will prevent it from being transferred to other levels of education. I repeat today what I said two days ago in my position in the Committee on Educational Affairs: 'Free University does not mean broken university'. By safeguarding higher education institutions, we are defending freedom of expression and of argument within universities, because today the minorities are trying to impose their opinion by exercising all forms of violence. The current situation must end, as the immunity enjoyed by small and medium-sized groups who are familiar with the environment of the universities must be eliminated, and it must also be converted into'supermarkets' for drugs. Ladies and gentlemen, this government envisions universities as ecosystems of new ideas. He wants to see them liberated and extroverted, in a rapidly evolving world, to be globally competitive actors of knowledge, prosperity and elevation for children who study them. Universities are not a field of shooting where the Left trains its incubators. Conditions have matured and all have to assume their responsibilities, but above all those who tolerate and cover up the determination they are trying to impose organised minorities. So we come to the bottom of the debate, since, with our vote on the Ministry of Education's bill, we are answering the fundamental question: 'What education do we want? Are we on the law or the trumpets? Are we being cultivated and disciplined or force?'. The New Democracy Parliamentary Group, ladies and gentlemen, taking care of the qualitative upgrading of the Greek school, the Greek university, gives a strong answer in voting for the bill. We restore normality to universities, as education is the most important good of every human being, the foundation of every nation, the quintusia of society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u213	You really put the timer on, Mr. Karaoglu. Thank you very much for the accurate maintenance of time. The reason for seven minutes is now the MP of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nandi) Giannakopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u214	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time we have been discussing a bill from the Ministry of Education. And that, you know, is a problem in itself. I mean a fragmented approach to issues, without there being a single reform plan for our education system as a whole. There is a national plan missing, which will not change with every new government, even worse with every new Minister of the same government. If we really wanted to make a serious breakthrough in education, as Finland or other countries have done, then we would come all the parties in the Greek Parliament in a broad dialogue and consultation with all the institutions of the educational community and for the next twelve years we would follow from kindergarten to higher education the system that we would have agreed to, so that we could have serious results. I mentioned Finland. They have been discussing this country for years and, when they ended up, they have voted for a high-majority clause to change even a provision. In our country, the only overall radical effort, and indeed with impressive consensus, was made by the well-known Law 4009/2011, the 'Damadopoulos', which was voted by more than two hundred eighty votes, but was then abused by all the next ministers and effectively abolished by the SYRIZA - ANEL government. Hundreds of brilliant academics, who had come from the best universities all over the world to help, were expelled. That's the truth. It is true, too, that today we are living in a state of suffering and depreciation of all the model that prevailed and summarized in the following points: 'Go around the world, without a minimum performance. Finish whenever you want or, if you want, don't even finish, but you'll be called students", baptism of all HEIs in a single night, support of a deadly developmental regional model, which is based on hundreds of schools everywhere, degrees with no substantial impact and value, seeing 40% of the students of HEIs being graduates. In fact, we see there being a view that HEIs are not primarily learning and research areas, but politicisation sites. Of course, ladies and gentlemen, there is also an attempt to hide reality and to show that infraction, drug trafficking, trabourism, violence, beating and threats to teachers are allegedly regional phenomena. But come on, it's not! The icons of the dean of ASAP within his broken office came to remind us of fascism and essentially the practice of invasion orders. Ladies and gentlemen, every sincere dialogue is a condition for not denying reality and, of course, for the rulers to have eyes and, above all, for open ears to compose. So we have to go forward. We need to upgrade the universities, accepting the self-evident, that we cannot expect an upgrade, without total dismissal of the pathogens of a grim past, which poisons university life. The government's attempt to convince society and the educational community that the draft law is aimed at substantially improving studies, although it has rightly raised a number of key issues, such as protecting and upgrading academic freedom, it has not produced fruit, because it is dealing with these issues without listening, not those who consider that they are reasonable as they are, but those who want to contribute positively with proposals and ideas, such as the Change Movement. I shall briefly refer to the three main axes of the bill, which have dominated the public debate as well. The most characteristic example of this is the provision for the establishment of protection teams for university institutions under the Greek Police. Both the Minister said in her introduction, as well as Mr Chrysochide, that we should not close, they say, eyes to a chronic problem which, over time, seems to be giggling. Yes, I agree! But, Minister, we must not close our ears. And you did so in the very recent past, with the rules of Article 64 of Law 4623/2019 on asylum at the time you abolished it - the failure of which you yourself first came to confirm a few months later, with the new provisions that you entered for voting. Of course I want it to be clear that universities need controlled access and of course safekeeping. Watching over time, but also today, is inadequate, because neither the state had the necessary financial and technical means, nor did the precursors do what they had to do. Unfortunately, many people are afraid, others do not want to take responsibility for others - few, but there are - who are in electoral decency. We propose to every university institution the creation of a body of specialised guards, according to the constitutional self-employed, such as most European universities. The abats must be recovered and the entry control must be organised properly - for example, by card - for students and workers. Another major issue has to do...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u215	And that's it, because you've been over time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u216	I shall conclude, Mr President. Another major issue, therefore, is the regulation of the Greek phenomenon of the eternal students, which highlights the distorting functioning of our educational system, as studies must be carried out within a specific timeframe so that they are consistent and timely. In the Greek universities, the student is in the absence of a permanent check and the student thus becomes a ballast in the sea of time. I'm sure a limit has to be introduced. After all, our position is 'n+2'. Perhaps the Ministry should take into account university remarks on deletion, part-time education and some other exceptions. And I close, Mr President, with regard to the introduction to university and the distorting debate - because this whole debate is distorted - which occurs every time on the basis of the introductory wording. The proposal of the Change Movement is absolutely clear. For admission to the university, the national graduation centre should be established, while using the Bank of Topics for the monthly evaluation of pupils. Technical education needs to be upgraded and university demand dismantled. Of course, we must be able to interconnect and place emphasis on individual students' advisory and professional guidance programmes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u217	Good. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u218	I'll close, Mr. President. Because, unfortunately, the Minister has not listened to any of these proposals, because unfortunately the necessary dialogue has not taken place, and because, unfortunately, this is not part of an overall reform framework, we are voting against this draft law at first instance, which I fear will come out ineffectively.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u219	The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros Triantafylides. Here, Mr. Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes and the timer next to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u220	Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the great American writer David Foster Wallace, speaking to his students at the beginning of each year, told them the same story: They are two young fish that swim. At some point they meet an old fish that goes in the opposite direction. He greets them and says to them: "Hello, guys. How's the water?" The two young fish are still swimming a little further and then gazing at each other and saying, "But what the hell is water?" The story of fish is simply that obvious, important and always present realities are often, as for the government of Mr Mitsotakis, uncomfortable, difficult and difficult to discuss. The ideas within the Greek university - which was nurtured by democracy, freedom, justice, equality, the secular character of society, the right to criticism, tolerance, solidarity, common good - are the ones that will avenge you in the way they know and know. The draft law that you enter as a purple elite is rules for the people and citizens who don't apply to you, as they exempt and effectively camouflage your central request, which is no more than leaving out of university twenty-four thousand candidates and creating quasi-cost customers of colleges, since earlier in the mosquitos you went through the simulation of diplomas and professional rights of public universities and colleges, the perfect "deal". Pre-electional conclusion, post-election. The New Democracy and the Mitsotakis Government are cutting off, depriving the right to the dream of tens of thousands of popular children to the sacred right to access the public university, knowing that the thirst of families to study their children will lead them to sell what they have and do not have to support their children, thus filling their pockets. The "law and order" is just a good serve. It shows and emerging mold of your reheated food, which you are resurrecting after the abolition of asylum in August 2019. Because your communicationians told you that "law and order", "law and order" sells. But come on, reality pulls you off the sleeve. The Mitsotakis practice in Ikaria was a ruthless violation of every concept of co-ordination of verbs and steps, as the steps are reversed. The experienced example that every power must emerge and express to its every concern, in all its choices, has basically been mocked, levelled. Training in arrogance was Mr. Mitsotakis, in his arrogance, in the arrogance of porphyrogens, where the laws they themselves adopt apply to everyone other than themselves. There's that, too. Or to say more specifically, it's a lesson in education, in education. Because we are not our verbs, we are our steps, our action and our practice. Kuveda, fish silence, do what you don't hear about the second blow. Do not listen to the lawlessness and the paradigm of DPRK, for the lawlessness of copying and copy paste along with a fast course in customer relations experienced by young first-year students and students. You give a vote, you get set, set, service. That's what I mean, a fast school, old-fashioned customer relations. Mr Varoufakis, Mr Pafilis, my comrade Sia Anagnostopoulou, have tabled to the Minutes apocalyptic acts. You who rip your clothes on legality hypocritically did not say a word about the violation of any concept of morality, of aesthetic ethics. The Law of the Ministry of Education recommends it and supports it by the Ministry of Public Order. Innovate filth and unconstitutional. You are an example of avoidance for all of Europe. One can now see in Greece, because in the European Parliament and in the Council of Europe they relate the government and the real Mitsotakis to the Orban government. They're all in front of you - pin didn't burn you - students, beatings, police, trade unionists. New Democracy officials tell you they disagree. You do not leave the question of self-government, the process of self-regulation by the factors of the university community protected by the Constitution. What did you say, Mrs. Keramemo, in August 2019? I read - journalistic distortion - from the Minutes: 'Ladies and colleagues, we are putting an end to the absurdity, we are doing the obvious.' How many times are you going to put an end to this? How many more times will you invoke the 'law and order', the 'law and order'? You said in August 2019 that universities cease to be a field of protection of unlawful actions, a refuge for offenders, criminal acts other than EITs, entering them in order to avoid arrest. What happened? Nineteen months has Mr Chrysochoidis and the Ministry of Public Order not struck these illegitimate acts? Has the law and Article 64 not been implemented? And I was amazed to hear that the previous Member of the New Democracy, Mr Varzopoulou, said that the New Democracy voted, but the New Democracy Government did not implement the repealed asylum article. Government vertigo, aalum, scrubbing in skull. On August 8, 2019, what did you say, Mrs. Kerameos? I read from the Minutes of the House: "We want police officers? Of course not,” you replied. "Our desire would be not to need..." and so on. Mr. Mitsotakis in August 2019 said: “No one wants police officers.” Nineteen months after your inefficiency, with which you invoke, report acts and data, you are returning to the crime scene again. Mrs Kerameau says: 'It is time for the universities to be released from lawlessness'. Well for nineteen months with government Mitsotakis the universities were in prison? You confess to it? What kind of inconsistencies is this? You're turning a page, you're talking to the university. How many times are you going to turn this page, which is white paper? It will remain in the consciousness of the students, the teachers, the factors of the university community and will not be implemented.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u221	And that's what you're closing down, Mr. Triantafylides. Put it down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u222	I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your understanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u223	No, there's no possibility. Put a perfect one on your last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u224	Sure. Leave out of university twenty-four thousand candidate students to create customers for colleges. Once again you confirm to the expressed conscience of the Greek people that the people do not forget what it means right. Your every step is confirmed arrogance, authoritarianism and immunity. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u225	SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Xanthiopoulos for seven minutes
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. The National Representation is invited to legislate on a key legislation for the operation of the Greek University, which is an institution of particular importance in consciousness and in the symbolic context that the entire Greek society experiences. The fact that this bill is being voted on in pandemic conditions also creates further gatherings, which are related to what the university recommends for the dominant perception and how it exploits the preservatives, reactionary, selective - I would say - of choices. The pandemic showed us two things that break down the neoliberal account. Firstly, that without a public health system sufficiently staffed, there can be no treatment of pandemic and, secondly, that medicine is a social commodity and not a commodity. So the government is coming today, in these circumstances, to tell us what? That education is not a social right, but a privilege of some. And that is exactly what illustrates the contradiction and selfish thinking of neoliberal logic. So education, like the previous two elements I mentioned, is primarily a social right and a responsibility of the state, it is to provide all the opportunities for its citizens to exercise it. I would like to refer to two extremely problematic provisions, which have been rejected and the whole - I would say - of parliamentary controversy. You come and you are establishing the basis of '10', which is mainly morally invoked. First comment: Does the fact that a high school graduate writes an exam for the university '3' and '4' does not concern you? Is it just the graduation or the system that followed him from primary, high school and high school and gets the graduates of this quality? Shouldn't we see that? Secondly, it is well known that in this way I would really discuss the existence of a minimum of admission to university. It seems a reasonable approach. What have you done, however, that undermines this choice and makes its adoption completely dishonest? A long time ago you adopted the professional equivalency of college rights with higher education institutions at night. What do you say in society? Don't trouble yourself, don't be wasted. The easy way to college is to go get a diploma and get into the labour market with the same professional qualifications as the one who tried to finish a polytechnic, the one who tried to finish an Economic University. This is what you did at earlier times, because you prepared it, completely undermines your argument about the basis of '10'. I'm coming to a special piece. Rather a result of this choice is that the general universities, which have, on their basis, much lower import bases, as all the studies and all the data say, will actually be completely weakened, some of which may be closed down. At a time when all Western Europe aims to increase knowledge, the quality of knowledge, you will connect your policy with closure, possibly abolishing university departments, and that is a reproach, it is a spot in your policy as a government. Secondly, the establishment of university police. Actually, it's a biopolitical exercise you're doing. You want to insult the conscience of the world that everything is a matter of sanctions, police, nothing is outside this suffocating framework, and therefore you know in advance that neither will it have nor will it address the few outbreaks of infraction. It is obvious - and Alexis Tsipras acknowledged it - that there is evidence of infringement in some university schools. How will these be dealt with? In simple terms: With the reinforcement, recruitment of guards, who will be subject to the dean, to the university, in any case, and who will be responsible for dealing with violations. It is what is happening in all European universities. What was that genius of building university departments in charge of university schools? No practical significance. Apart from costing 30 million, they will create obligations for people who will have been hired to face true behavior at universities. So a customer system is being created again and, above all, an outbreak of unrest and dissatisfaction is being created within the universities. If I take note of all these parameters which will accompany the operation of the university police at campus, monitor its members, monitor the movements of students and teachers, interfere with personal data, evidence that creates tensions, create outbreaks of infraction, are illegal and you have not dealt with them at all, precisely because you want to exercise the conservative reflexes of society. You want to stimulate these reflexes and you want to confirm your original view that everything in society is "law and order". Everything in society is not "law and order". Everything in society is ideas that go into society, oppose, survive, influence and form a new way, a new framework for the coexistence of social groups. This is how democratic societies go ahead. I conclude, Mr President, by making a statement by the famous constitutionalist Svolos - who for us, the professors of law, is a mythical form - which is tragically confirmed. So he says the teacher: "The rule of law remains empty, just as today, on the sole responsibility of those who establish police patrols at universities and continue to legislate to restrict and abolish rights." Tragically time-consuming the professor today. Let the government be concerned, to see where it leads the university community. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou. The floor is now held by Mrs. Liikoli Evangelia from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u228	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill of common sense. I have seen with great interest, as the truth, the effort of the Minister and the government as a whole to pass this bill as the bill of common sense, that is, the general admissibility. You say this to the world to say that we're bringing something that everyone agrees is about time to come. It's logical, it's commonly accepted. So why not move on to that? Is it true, Madam Minister, that at a time of pandemic, at a time of pandemic, you are stinging at the prosperous and prosperous homes of the MPs? Is that common sense? Is it common sense when we cannot see our parents and our children, are we not vaccinated and are we living the horror of doing our parliamentary work, are you taking fresh air to Ikaria? Is that common sense? So, Minister, I have these questions about common sense. Is it common sense, then, within this time of pandemic to bring in a bill to be consulted, should you discuss with the people exhaustively, not what you told us that we were here and discussed in Parliament, within committees and with the groups, then on a holiday? So after you brought the draft law to the debate, how do you deal with the dimension of this law to a people who are squeezed with masks, in a health crisis and waits with terror in the eyes when it will come out of it? You don't want under the mask to see that mouth, which is currently glowing, what does it say? You don't want to? It is common sense that ultimately between policing, protection and freedom we have a conflicting set of concepts that we need to regulate with surgical accuracy, with a democratic sense of responsibility and we should be very careful. And ultimately, is common sense not so common when it comes to empathy and also needs an anthropocentric perspective in politics, so that we can have the whole thing rather than the place? Because I remind you, Madam Minister, that common sense many times in history has proved to be a very dangerous concept. In the name of common sense, huge injustices occurred, phenomena of racism, anti-democratic manipulation, coups and many more, which we do not want to remember or remember, saying 'never again'. So now you are bringing a bill which, if anything, you cannot get that it is a bill of common sense, a reformist, with a wind and an air that you always bring with reforms. I was the rapporteur from the Change Movement in August 2019, and then I blamed your Government for the incursion when you had brought the abolition of asylum. The Change Movement again had tabled a proposal for a law and said to you: be careful, because here they will come again, because if we cannot convene the proceedings, if we cannot find the golden democratic incision in society, we will again be concerned. So here we are - good time! - Here we are again! Is that a reform bill? No, it's not. It is an outlaw of the previous legislative work, which you, Minister, have begun and, unfortunately, once again seemed to have failed because there was no strategy. There was no compass when you made that reform, which is why it did not pay off. After all that has happened over the last few days and lately, you have come with the Law on Technical Training to be indicted by the Chamber of Economics - almost an orderly service - for the IKUs private and colleges, in one night. Household jobs, however, you do what you say you really do, as you say, as you say, you do it and life goes on. And you're not going back to hear what the world, the ordinary people, is telling you on the streets. You're enough of polling. But I would remind you that polls many times in time have proved, for their quality characteristics, that they do not fall within them many times. So be careful of that. You are making changes to changes, saying the great word 'change'. Try to identify yourself with a great reform of post-multipleism and tell us who this is. That's what we're asking you, honestly. And the change you are trying to make in the name of and in the context of the great changes of the Pan-Hellenic Socialist Movement, which identified his name, the PASOK, in the sense of change and the Movement of Change, which itself gives him his identity and continuity. So you can't go on with me, I'm just saying, with false titles. Here they need political, strategic and social alliances. What did you do now? These children, which are wrapped with these masks - sheets that you have secured them, have been locked in the rooms with the teleconferences, faint every day. You learn that. You're a minister. What the hell? We're the only ones who find out? So these children, with teleconferencing, are trying to find the "algorithm" of the new computer, which has become a crossword for difficult lyrics, for good lyrics, difficult crosswords. Of course it looks like a book column, 1-2-X, and you'll never get it. Of course, Minister, this reformist chaos of a distortion that cannot under any circumstances satisfy a modern man, how much more a child, who feels dreamed free, visioned for free, is trying to get into life without prospect. Because it is not even self-evident that the most molecules candidate will be introduced into the school of preference. That's what your algorithm looks like. So, as we have always had a debt, the Change Movement has this role up. You see, we don't have a Officerial Opposition, since he thinks it has the title of Officer Opposition as a donation title, which at some point as a mature fruit will come and take power and government. What to do with it, though, when you don't have a home, and you don't have a system of democracy that you can really do, I wonder many times. We have therefore made the proposal for the national disinfection centre, we have made the proposal for the emphasis on personalised advisory programmes, with productive forces, with national cohesion, within the framework of the European and global economy. You didn't hear us. Today we have tabled a proposal that is really what you rejected and in August practically 2019, but now in absolute detail, by saying now that you will give the forces the opportunity to join together, to give society the opportunity to get together. How do you deal with what your own cops tell you? The police don't want it, the fighters don't want it, the young people don't want it, the political parties don't want it. Who wants it? You only want it. This vast loneliness in democracy how can you, really, deal with it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u229	Mrs. Liikali, close up, you've had enough time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u230	Mr President, I shall end. I'm going to be perfect, but I'll just say the following. Today, Minister - and the Government - I address you because it is not personal - what we, with the framework law and with the law of Diamantopoulou, have succeeded, unfortunately you are coming right now and you are firing it. We're not telling you anything but be careful. And you know why you need to be careful? Because when you are the same ones who will light up the fuse in the molotovs, don't come back and cry in the House and make supposedly reforms. Because, you remember, Nero enjoyed the fire, too, but you remember what the end was. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u231	We also thank and continue with SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance Mr Nikolaos Igoumenidis for seven minutes in a strict manner, because there is a shortness of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, during the three-day period until recently, in other words, with Mr Katsafandou and Mr Brutsi's speech, and with the position of my colleague who was before me that the Qualified Opposition has no politics and does not oppose it, a question was raised to which I should first like to speak. Who's the Left, what's left, what's left for the universities? We want a university of public opinion, open to the children of Greek society, without economic social or other conditions of access, conditions which are the result and the creator of social and educational inequalities, and a university, therefore, without all this and a mesh of measures, which in two words we call 'class barriers' to education. We want a university that provides modern knowledge, offers our children and the most recent conquests of the human mind, so that it draws up scientists capable of being equal to their colleagues in the international scientific community. We want a university which provides knowledge of this in order to help make the full use of our country's possibilities, namely, that, for its part and to the extent that it corresponds to and is intended to contribute to development, based on the needs of society rather than the few. We want a university that, with the degree it provides, will ensure to its graduates, without having to pursue other qualifications to stand up to the labour market, ensures our children with dignity, ensures our children the life we dream of ensuring them. We want a university which is an element of its operation that will be the free movement of ideas as required by science and as appropriate to all educational institutions. Finally, we want a university that will cultivate respect for the people, confidence in the forces and conquests of the movement, respect for the motherland, the environment, that is to say, all of the values which in two words are known as 'democratic consciousness'. And, of course, for such a university, within an overall framework of public education, we want a political choice of the brave funding of education. What do I tell you now, Minister? You didn't even know the budget for your ministry. You did not even know what money you had to deal with with the decisions you were going to make. In any case, Mr Brutsi - I am addressing you not by name, but above all as a Parliamentary representative of the New Democracy - do you have the proposal of the New Democracy before you? Make a change, turn a hundred and eighty degrees and you will see in front of you what is and what the Left wants, which is not yesterday or in education. You have received the dogma from the generation of 1-1-4 and 15% of the budget for education and, of course, our visions and our goals go beyond the short-sighted, narrow-minded, suffocating horizons of neoliberal, right-wing politics, as reflected in the draft law brought by Mr Mitsotakis' government today. Clearly the goals of the Left go beyond what the Minister said a moment ago, the neoliberal opening in the future. No, they just get over it, they're scanning it. That's what we want. Well, that's left. Now, some issues and remarks in the bill. I watched the whole conversation. I have not heard any answers and I will come back from my side, Minister. Inside the pandemic, with the function of the House attached to health protocols and to society adapted to health protocols, the consultation was incomplete. However, you insist and want to continue to vote on the bill. But you have not responded - and I will expect to hear your answer - what these urgent issues, which are not deferred, which are not worth waiting to hear the opinion of society as they should, and which must be voted on now. Secondly, with the proposals you have put forward - it has been heard by many colleagues, by the President of SYRIZA - you are changing and leading to a reduction in the number of importers. I won't talk about the number. You replied to Alexis Tsipras a moment ago in the speech made by the President of SYRIZA that the Ministry had not calculated. Furthermore, Minister, and with this reply, it goes on to say that you understand and agree that the bill is intervening in the import system and in the number of importers in the GNI. I ask: when was a change to the Flemish import system ever voted to implement three months later? Why at least don't you exclude High School III from what you decide about? Let's go down. In my opinion, the government of Mitsotakis in these circumstances is not simply seeking to reduce the number of importers, mainly seeking - and that is why we are looking at your bill, which is the main reason why I will vote against - to undermine public education. It is a result of this policy to increase social inequalities. And you will tell me, but when Mr Mitsotakis himself believes that inequalities are registered in human DNA, how can he and the government that controls another policy, beyond the widening of precisely these inequalities? But there is another question: In such a period of harsh economic reality for Greece, the Right Government chooses the funding of higher education in Greece to go to surveillance cameras, personnel and security systems. Why, really, do you not fund curriculum projects, high theoretical or technological research programmes? A funding that, in addition to further upgrading universities, will also have this contribution and its little dough in the bleeding that we have with the leakage of our scientists abroad. And, of course, this whole strand of government policy needs other steps to be taken in the anti-democratic catastrophe. We have lived through the attempt to ban and suppress demonstrations. We live, we live the persecutions on journalists who criticized Mr. Mitsotakis. We have lived the persecutions on health workers who have criticised the government's policy on the treatment of pandemic. And of course, in all this anti-democratic grid, we also have the ruthless cyclistry in Parnitha, which will land and end up in the arrogant behaviour on a cavalry veranda.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u233	Finish, Mr. Igoumenides. You've spent time long enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u234	In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that you are not the first right-wing government to bring such a bill. You can vote with the current government majority if you want. But, as SYRIZA President Alexis Tsipras said, in front of you you will find a palal movement to defend democracy and public education. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr. Igoumenides. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis Kourublis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. As you know, I always speak from boobs, as the Rules say, and I would like a little tolerance. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with an appeal to the government. I would like the government to look at this at the moment with the crisis and with Lockdown, to allow those citizens and, above all, pensioners who can leave towns and find themselves in their countryside or villages, as soon as crowding and confusing are incriminating - I think it would be an extremely good solution - to leave some people. Thousands of people are stacked in sixty, seventy and eighty square apartments. So there will be a release of a large number of people from towns. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, complacentness and self-sufficiency are consultants dangerous. They become much more dangerous when they become selfish 'I have the only truth'. With this in mind, the government in secret, because the world is locked in its homes, because of all this pandemic crisis, brings bills imposing authoritarianism. It's a monument of democratic diversion. This bill is a monument that did not dare bring any government to the two hundred years of the life of the Greek state. It is a bill that brings within the university space, which is, over time, the area of questioning and claiming every time the youth of this place brings together the authoritarianism of the police presence, i.e. two functions with different fuels, dangerous to coexist in this area. You bring a bill and you try to hit brutally a guaranteed constitutional value, the value of academic freedom, and what that means. You incorporate the asylum, which was, ladies and gentlemen, over time, a conquest inviolable even from the German Occupation. When the Germans went to the Polytechnic and wanted to get in, then the late Rector Nikolaos Kitsikis showed them the door of the exit. So you come today to legislate and attack values constitutionally guaranteed over time. You're hitting the university self-employed. So, Minister, tomorrow you will tell us that you want to appoint the teachers. Since you are currently putting police forces not designated by the dean or, in the final analysis, by the Ministry of Education, but by the Ministry of Public Order, you are actually causing the public feeling. So you are demolishing all these values, because you want to impose order and law, because you understand the social claims that will come very briefly from the devastating policies in the context of the pandemic you have implemented, with the continuous lockdown, which we have no real effect but continuous deterioration of the situation, because you simply think that you are the only ones who have the truth, without wanting to hear anyone else. Never, ladies and gentlemen, in the time of the Greek state there was no such choice from a democratic government. The current New Democracy government has loaded on a party such as the New Democracy, a democratic party, which will carry it for too many years. On the contrary, you could do something that I admit to you that it was also our fault that we did not do so and the previous governments who did not do so, force the prerogatives, on the basis of the legislation in force, any criminal act carried out within the university or damage done within the university, if it did not immediately call on the public prosecutor, to be penalised by the dean himself. A provision of this kind would oblige those who have had the right to do so over the years, but for many and various reasons they had not exercised it. So you had to come here and talk about the university and its problems. Every living organism is natural to have problems. And, of course, there were some universities, not because they were now and you're trying to charge them to the previous government. I mean, mercy! These are phenomena over time. So bring a discussion topic for the best university. To discuss even the family rule that exists in many cases. Let’s also talk about lingering prostitutes with some prostitute teachers. And these phenomena to talk about. So from now on, until you bring provisions that eliminate university values over time, this really demonstrates the incurable political allergy you have against the public university, as you have always had allergy to the National Health System. And today, the pandemic proved how correct the choice of those in the 1980s had the idea of establishing it, led by the then Prime Minister Andreas Papandreou. Mr President, in 1963 neither the government of violence and fraud with the uprising at the time of 1-1-4 and 15% dared to bring the police into the universities. When the students then met the Minister of Education of EPE, the late Thebes, his answer was: "Don't mess with the government. Weep your destiny that you are poor." That was the concept of the right. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And the government, the 1964 progressive of George Papandreou, came and brought free education and established the social elevator. And so, the child of the farmer and the worker was not obliged to become a farmer or a worker, but with his value more could be done. I wanted to tell my dear friend, Mr Brutsi, that if it were not for that law, neither would I nor I be Members today. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close up with another issue concerning colleges. Minister, you show your untreated love, the politician, with private education. After you wanted to give support to this area, the first thing you had to do, to convince that you believe what you are doing, was to define the rules of operation of these IEKs - because this is the IEK - to upgrade them, to force them to function like the universities, once you wanted to give them a professional equation with the universities. Right now, that's the law you're closing the door to twenty-five thousand children. You know, Minister, better than anyone that the Greek family is passionate about the education of her child. She can be deprived of everything by the Greek family to study her child. Even in Pristina they used to go to school children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u237	Mr. Curublis, you've had enough time. Close with your last thought. Please warmly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u238	I'm closing, Mr. President. Instead of prescribing and subsidizing private colleges, which do not have the level they should have, you are attempting to promote a bill that will truly create extremely dangerous phenomena. We've lived in universities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, Mr Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u240	I'm hanging up. May the Minister reply to what Mr Mitsotakis said to convince us that what he said is worthy and is true: who controls these two centres that are being attended by the universities?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr Kurubli.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u242	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u243	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u244	Mr President, I asked you to put forward the latest legislative improvements, if you will allow them to be distributed to Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u245	I would ask that they be photographed and given to colleagues and rapporteurs. Mr Christos Gokas, Member of the Change Movement, has the floor for seven minutes. Hot request, have the clock next to you for seven minutes. There's no time. It's a warm request for the others who will follow. Mr. Goka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u246	I will certainly be briefer than the previous ones, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, there are constitutional provisions specifically concerning education, since it is a key area of policy, national importance, such as the constitutional requirement for equal opportunities for citizens in education and education, on the basis of equality and equality for all. A strong public education system is therefore necessary. For higher education, the Constitution establishes full self-government of universities, so also responsibility for all functions, as a result of the preservation and security of people and infrastructure and the safeguarding of an environment of academic freedom. Legislative interventions for higher education are common, with the latest real reform of the PASOK government, which for the first time brought together a wider consensus and a cross-party parliamentary majority. Instead of continuing on this law, the SYRIZA government has gone ahead with its abolition and the current New Democracy government is moving, without real dialogue and understanding, on the basis of its own conservative political perceptions and targets. Ladies and gentlemen, our rapporteur, Mrs Kefalidou, and our parliamentary representative, Mr Scandalidis, have been detailed on all the issues and provisions of the bill. I'm going to stand on a few points. First, guard and protection. We do not disagree that there is a problem of lawlessness and violence, security and disasters in university spaces. Indeed, in the name of academic freedom, these actions succeed exactly the opposite, that is to say, to affect freedom of speech and research and individual freedoms. It is incomprehensible that there should be insecurity and fear in university spaces. Did these be solved by abolishing the asylum with Law No4623/2019, which the Government of New Democracy has brought and voted for? Turns out, no. We had anticipated this dead end. And today, we have new legislative intervention, which ignores the constitutional provision for the competence and responsibility attached to the administration of the university and entrusts it to the police. The solution is not to go to the ends, either. There's not just suppression. There is also prevention. Why do a thousand police special guards need when a year and a half ago was enough to call, which, apparently, never happened? Today, you confess, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the failure. Subject and safety at universities exist. Is there a solution? Do we want to? Government and Civic Opposition are perpetuated in descriptions and reports of known situations to maintain their own duplicate. The proposal for a law of the Change Movement, as has already been analysed, concerns, firstly, the creation of a storage service by the universities themselves, which will be trained as necessary, in cooperation with the Ministry of Civil Protection and, secondly, the introduction of a card on entry to university spaces. The Security Service shall be established by decision of the institution itself and shall operate under the responsibility and responsibility of its administration, as already described. It is a solution and not a dead end. It is a proposal similar to those applied to large recognized foreign universities in European democratic countries. Second subject, import bases. No problem is solved unless education in high school and in high school is resolved and evaluation followed. You are starting backwards, even reducing directly by about twenty-five thousand people who will at the same time be able to attend private colleges and IEKs and obtain titles that you have already predicted to be recognised equally with those of the universities. For what justice, what equal opportunities are we talking about? What do you say to those who can't afford to pay? The result will be to desolate and close several regional university departments. I will not currently deal with the sloppy and unprepared creation of university departments in 2018 by the SYRIZA Government, which has its own responsibilities for the situation and problems it created in higher education. This does not, however, justify the choices of the current government. Our proposal enables everyone with the Bank of Issues and the National High School of Higher Education to obtain the basic requirement for admission to higher education, with a proper professional orientation and a basic role and a reason for university schools for the criteria for admission of students. So we have clean rules, a minimum of equal opportunities, and everyone's choices are open, based on the national sanitation centre. Why can't we agree on this today? Your proposal widens the gap for the economically weak. It is a system which does not distinguish differences and peculiarities between schools and departments and has no consistent evaluation. For example, the difficulty in the examinations is variable and it is obviously incomprehensible that these should apply directly, since this year, in such a special and difficult year, without lessons for the 3th grade, with substantial weaknesses in telecommunications, with an unprepared system, but without training for this way of education and teachers and students. Not everyone has the opportunity, Minister, to supplement the shortcomings in the education system. But for the second grade too, it's early for changes like the ones you're promoting. It takes more time, more dialogue, better solutions. The consequences of the pandemic are obvious. Do not insist on this provision. Respect psychology, struggle and anguish of students, candidates and their families. I'm hanging up with school time. And here you must understand that this provision cannot apply as it comes. There is much going on in life and no one can be denied the right to education because, for example, it will be forced to work or to delay for a period of family or health. We must deal with the extreme cases and the excesses that exist, but we must also give time to those who want to try and succeed. There may be provision for the time when student benefits and privileges may be applied, but they may be proportionate to each case in which they are followed up and acquired. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill, despite its communication, is not a bill for everyone, it is not an essential reform in the field of education. Its provisions create more problems than they solve, with all the opposite. That is why we are voting in favour of the principle, but also of the articles that we particularly disagree. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u247	And we thank Mr. Goka. Mr Giannoulis Christos, MP SYRIZA - Progressive alliance, for seven minutes. Have the watch next door. You're experienced.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u248	I've already started the timer. Mr President, thank you very much. I will follow the advice of a more experienced colleague just before I speak from the heart and out of the text. But I really want to call on myself to be in time, because it is also a sign of respect for the other Members who follow, who follow. Of course, I am very sad that today I am present, even in this way, in a parliamentary procedure that has no precedent for relocation: the Ministry of Education should legislate - a hand with the Ministry of Public Order. That by definition is something that should concern us. I also think that if you had heard the proposal of the Anti-Population and the proposal of the President of SYRIZA to postpone the vote on this bill, we would have escaped the style and style of the position of the State Secretary for Rural Development, Mr Katsafandou. I can understand and respect being acquitted. But I can understand what his style and style of action were at the Greek university. I want to make two - three brief remarks, Mr President, before entering the bill. There are too many of our colleagues, men and women, doctors. I would suggest that Mr Mitsotakis be very careful of his stomach, because, if someone eats in fifteen minutes, he is a very short time for a person's digestive system. Let him do it for half an hour. Let him do it one and a half, as it was actually. But in the fifteen minutes he'll be careful. You know I have unlimited respect for Greek Prime Ministers. I've been born, I've been nursing and family and professionally respecting Greek Prime Ministers. I respect office and institution. I do not respect those who do not respect citizens and public opinion. I would also ask Mrs Kerameou, the Minister for Education, that she should be given the basic respect to answering not to us, to the new Members of either SYRIZA or to the other parties, but to respond to very important interventions and questions raised. I choose from Elissona Opposition Mr. Castanides, for example. Leave us with SYRIZA. We are the sidewalk and the concentration and the exoticness and all that. It's your well-known account. But answer questions very enthusiastic about unconstitutionalism, about what you are doing, which, in essence, violates democratic values. I feel very bad about the fact that we still have evidence of quarantine and measures that are not even taken in primary schools, with the twenty-five children in the same class. And I want an answer from one of your fellow politicians today, Mr Zerva, who is celebrating you - and he is not the first - to say that 10% of the cases in Thessaloniki are children twelve years old. So it also obviously sticks to schools, sticks to the subway, sticks to the public transport media, sticks to workplaces. And, yes, there's a risk that there will be a chance at the concentrations. But that's not all. I would like to call on you - politically, because most of them have been said, Mrs Kerameus - not to remain in history as the Minister of Inconsistency, with the night's amendment to professional rights, with the masks - diapers, with the tablets that were for ninety thousand students and are still made at a China factory, obviously and have not been delivered. I would like to ask, with great attention and respect for your office as Minister of Education - I do not know if you will be taking over the Ministry of Civil Protection and Public Order at the same time, because, as I said, this present dominance is really curious - if there is a circular that allowed three Hierarchs on the part of teachers and teachers to church the children. Look, I don't put it on his religious dimension, I put it on his sanitary dimension. I will provide you with a secure information, which I would like you to check, that the children have not been forced, but have been driven, under the conditions of the complex presence of the Three Hierarchs' festivities to commute, translate, under strict conditions of lockdown here, in Thessaloniki, and Athens. I would like an answer from you. I don't judge it or charge it emotionally or comment on it. But if that happened, I really would like you to investigate it and comment on it. I'll close up saying things that haven't been said, Mrs. Keramea. This evening I have to answer my seventeen - year - old son, who troubles me daily and asks me: “What happened today? Have you changed the system of introduction to higher education?’ Be careful, it does not say 'change'. It includes me in this horror. I don't know what to answer to him, because he's second grade, he's confused, he's terribly obsessed, like all the kids, like all the students. You do not respect them, by directly applying what you call 'project to modernise education'. I do not know what to say to him about funding, research and the reduction of funds that will fuel the recruitment of the thousands of police officers. I do not know what to answer to him how he will be introduced, because of the time that Mr Mitsotakis can, as he has done here by subway and ancients, sleep strangely, wake up from his pillow and change a system of introduction to higher education again. Also, I don't know what to answer the students of the Greek Open University, who in times of crisis still pay 500 euros the theme section, Mrs Kerameos, and for them you're not predicting anything in your bill. I don't know what to answer to students, men and women, who are parents and who do not include any care on how to help this part of students and not just eternal students, as you call them, students who have been on the brink of their degree for many years. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to ask you something and to close with it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u249	And that's it, Mr. Giannoulis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u250	Of course, Mr President. Mrs. Keramos, I don't know if you want to stay in history as the next Kontogiannopoulou, but be sure that, with your political behaviour, you have overtaken him a lot, so that history is in danger of writing you as the worst for education, education, society and democracy Minister for Education and Civil Protection. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u251	And we thank Mr Giannoulis. Mr Liutas Athanasios, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u252	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in front of us we have a bill from the Ministry of Education, which highlights the great awareness that we are aware of the changes that need to take place and which are taking place in the field of higher education. With this bill we support the candidate for admission to higher education and form the conditions for ensuring and strengthening academic function. More specifically, this bill comes and describes how candidates will enter higher education. It also describes the new role which our universities themselves will have on the issue of the candidate's introduction. In addition, this bill comes and forms the necessary security conditions for our university institutions. By passing, in particular, on the contents of the bill, I would like to mention that the two phases of completing the candidate's computerised document and the computerised form for the public IEK are, in fact, protecting the candidate himself. The candidate will be invited to prioritise his wishes within a coherent and targeted framework. The candidate himself will design, not with the logic of what emerges, but with realism, the beginning of his own future. The candidates, our children, will enter a mature and realistic process of shaping their choices on the basis of their desires, gradients and performance. At the same time, the public university, as part of this equation, will acquire autonomy, define the minimum import base and, in essence, participate dynamically in the formation of its own academic character. The ultimate objective is to graduate people who will consciously have joined a university, who will have been consciously and successfully worked out during their studies and who will eventually be claiming to be on the labour market. Moreover, the ultimate aim is to create a public university which will take its competitive place internationally. We have excellent universities - after all, everyone calls it - excellent academics and excellent students. Let us give both those and the new generations, which will join the Greek university in the future, better and more dynamic opportunities. Ladies and gentlemen, a fair and modern reform of higher education, such as the one introduced by this bill, is a need, which is clearly linked to an additional basic objective, that of the dynamic interaction of the higher education system and the needs of the labour market. It is a common finding that high unemployment rates over time reflect a structural problem. It is therefore necessary to realize why the candidate himself chooses a university. It is necessary for the university institution itself to make a maximum contribution to the development of trained scientists. It is necessary that graduates from universities go out to the labour market. Finally, it is necessary for the labour market to know that a particular graduate can make a decisive contribution to his work through the valuable knowledge he has obtained at his college. The gap between the many unemployed and long-term unemployment must be bridged. So what we are talking about today is undoubtedly part of this solution. If we consider the benefits all of this can have in the field of education, we will see that soon the university and all higher education will play their worthwhile role as social elevators. A sequence of continuous progress and benefit will be created within society. As far as the introduction of the minimum school time is concerned, we all understand that it is very important. for both the time and the life of the student himself and his family and for the proper functioning of the universities. Ladies and gentlemen, now on the issue of security and protection at our universities, I would like to stress that this is a matter of common sense and high necessity. Unfortunately, in our universities, lawlessness and criminal activity have taken a long time. Failure to resolve this problem is indifference, an indifference which underestimates the role that university plays and can play, an indifference that underestimates domestic mentality, which is in the face of science and the future of our children. This draft law gives an answer and an essential solution. The solution now envisaged, with regard to the controlled entry into universities and the establishment of protection teams subject to the Greek Police, is moving in the right direction. The problems, ladies and gentlemen, have increased. In some cases, as in the case of a dean being permeated some time ago, problems of infraction and violence are found to be uncontrollable, I would say. In a university, knowledge, progress, life and the future of a student with phenomena of lawlessness cannot be compelled. These protection teams will be staffed by specific training staff, oriented to the specificities of the university area and with special uniforms. They will cooperate with the dean, with the competent bodies and their mission will be to prevent and deal with lawlessness in university spaces, always respecting the history, nature and struggles that have been given to the university's field. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to conclude by pointing out that the educational system and particularly higher education are central levers of social development, growth and prosperity. The Greek family, the young child, people of every age look forward to a better future through the university. In the past, the university acted as a social incision, as the decisive step that allowed a man to seek out his future through knowledge, solve problems, come in contact with the right word and science, develop his mind and life. At the same time, the economy itself sees the future of its development in the educational system. So let us all remember that the educational system today needs to be the social and development incision that we need, the incision that will support man and help him in his life, the incision that will produce valuable scientific human capital, and the incision to deal with lawlessness. There is no doubt, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill brings our place a decisive and extremely beneficial cut for our country and for all Greeks. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, too. SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mrs Papanatzis Catherine has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u254	Thank you very much. Ladies and gentlemen, from the debate of a bill to the debate of another, so many old-fashioned government are added, which one does not know what it is to be a headline. The violations of measures by the Prime Minister in Ikaria, while citizens experience hard lockdown? The announcement of a prohibition measure with immediate effect without having been adopted by the EC? The statements made by the Vice-President of the Government, which he gladly told us that if we have tested and concentrated on homes, are we not violating the measures? It is now clear that the government considers the country's frickin' frickin' and constantly despises society. But the healthiest part of society, youth, really hates it. From the first days of your governance, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you have shown your true intentions. You abolished the two-year curriculum, depriving thousands of professional graduates of the opportunity to study for free in modern specialities and objects. You abolished the new departments of the HEIs and introduced the compulsory registration of graduates of private colleges in the chambers. Today's bill comes as a result of these interventions, which aim to feed private colleges with new customers. The minimum import bases at the University of Thessaly alone are estimated to be 37%. Larissa's gonna lose six university departments, Cardica three and Volos two. The Single Association of Teachers of the University of Thessaly proceeded to strike, expressing its disappointment at the government's choice of introducing legislation in the midst of a pandemic without dialogue with the university community. In his communication he points out: "The effort to safeguard the Greek public university hurts our democracy, disorientates public dialogue from the need for a substantial redefinition of LGT and a substantial reinforcement of university and post-traditional education. It is a slandering campaign, as at the same time Greek universities are all distinguished at the top of the international rankings." And it continues: "Hypocrisy is vague, as the government imposes recognition of the professional rights of college degrees as equal to the diplomas of the HEIs. It is challenging that, through import bases, access to public universities is restricted and that colleges are promoted by a variety of regulations, where the only requirement of admission is the tuition.’ [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Gentlemen of the government, for a long time now you have been trying to deceive regional universities with low bases and slander central universities as centres of lawlessness. You who pour crocodile tears on the young Greek graduates abroad will tell us how many of them have graduated from public Greek universities? Do you have a picture? You don't care about the quality of education. Your target is another. It is the reinforcement of private colleges, the fight against the dynamics and the free thinking of young people. The creation of a university police under the command of the Ministry of Civil Protection is destroying any sense of democratic movement of ideas. It creates intercourses with situations condemned to the consciousness of society, such as those mentioned by the Deputy Minister of Education, saying that there was again a university police force in Greece, in Greece of the junta of 1969. More and more of our society is now beginning to understand your authoritarianism. The citizens are locked in their homes, with the threat of the virus and the fine. The citizens without a test, since the government did not see to it that it set up a public free test for all. However, some other powerful and powerful can be intersected and set up as catalysts. The students who will not catch Mrs. Kerameau's import base are inappropriate to attend the public university. Some of them, even though they won't catch the import base, with full pockets they can study in private colleges, recognize their degrees and register in the professional chambers. You create a two-speed world, a society with deep inequality. Any reaction is framed and prohibited. As students demonstrate, you choose to bring a monster bill that threatens the future of our children in the midst of a pandemic. Greece is in the last place in higher education expenditure in proportion to the Gross National Product. If you really wanted the upgrading of universities, you would have gone for brave funding of education. The same should be done if you were really interested in health and work. But you're not interested in any of this. Your tactics are disdaining and direct attack. You blame the doctors for the patients who died out of the ICU. The workers for the crowding in their work. Youth and you prescribe the situation in education. You blame the whole society, which you are leveling on a daily basis. You are an arrogant, arrogant and dangerous social government. I am the last of the Members to express my complete opposition and opposition to your authoritarian categorical catastrophe. Be sure that I will not be the last of those who will continue to fight against your three-fold "austerity - authoritarianism - arrogance". Society has not yet said the last word. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Ms. Papanaceu. Mr Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy and the circle of speakers closes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. I happen to be the last speaker from those who will defend the bill, unlike my colleague who spoke before me, who spoke of an autocratic catastrophe. I will start by saying that the populist catastrophic catastrophe of counterpopulation seems to me to have no end and, unfortunately, we are witnessing a course of glossy speeding up the cliff on the side of the counterpopulation every day. Mr President, it is a little delight to speak in this House, in plenary, through the teleconferencing conference. I very much hope that our House will make use of the weapons that science has given us so that we can find ourselves together in Parliament's building. After all, the House is a convention and I think that the physical presence is irreplaceable. It can't be replaced in any way. I'm going into the bill. The late Evangelos Papanoutsos, an inspiration for the great educational reform that began in 1964, referring to the principles and objectives of that effort, stressed: "We will make people who will be able to free themselves from the idols of lies and with the nature of defeating the difficulties of life. Two principles are projected by this position. First, half-heartedness, and not immortality, is the greatest risk both to the individual and to society. This disease can be cured by a single medicine: Throw more into science, cultivate our spirit, and train deeply. Secondly, we should not account for physical sacrifices when we want to develop our education. Of all the investments, the training shall have the highest and above all the most certain return.’; That's what Papanouchos said. Of course, every time highlights its own needs and priorities. At that time there was the need to spread education to as many groups of Greek citizens as possible and to democratise it. Today our education must be adapted and monitored in technology. Adapting to research, to go hand in hand with the modern needs of society and the market, not only Greek society and the market, but also international ones. All this to develop certainly needs more funds, adjustment of the Greek universities to international standards, proper planning, which the HEIs alone can achieve, with the help of the Ministry of Education, but within the framework of the self-government - I think it is their responsibility - and, of course, with the appropriate academic environment. We therefore seek to ensure that these objectives are achieved by means of the draft legislation in question. This draft law aims at the overall upgrading of higher education studies, improving the academic environment and ensuring an environment of security where the constitutional requirement for the development of science, research and teaching can actually be carried out. The Constitution itself in Article 16(1) tells us that academic freedom and freedom of teaching do not relieve the duty of obedience to the Constitution. This means that there cannot be anti-democratic attitudes and violations within universities. With this draft law, therefore, we are dealing with issues which are primarily concerned with the introduction of our young people, our children and our universities, by establishing the minimum import base, with a view to ensuring a qualitative upgrading of the studies and the possibilities offered by our universities. Secondly, arrangements should be made to introduce a limit for the establishment of a school limit at the EITs. It is not possible to insist on the tolerance of a phenomenon which I think is only Greek, but only a Greek reality for there to be students who are 'eternal' and who have forgotten how many years they have been studying in universities. Furthermore, regulations are also laid down, those that have raised a number of reactions, in relation to the protection of academic freedom and the upgrading of the academic environment, such as controlled entry to the IOIs, the establishment of the University Institutions Protection Team by the Greek Police and the provision of an integrated framework of disciplinary law. The aim is not policing, but it is, as I have said before, the safeguarding and upgrading of the academic environment as an area of genuinely free movement of ideas, the uninterrupted conduct of research and teaching and the provision of an area of freedom to provide knowledge. All this is absolutely necessary in our educational system and in our education, especially because of the criminal policies and wrong movements that have taken place in the past. Let me not remind you of how badly influenced, how negatively the Gavroglou law of the previous government has been, who has really followed a policy that has dismantled education. I would remind you that in the already four Departments of Agriculture that were in existence, successful departments in Orestiada, Athens, Thessaloniki and Volos - I say the first one in Orestiada, because it is a town in my constituency - another nine were added. At the same time, in the existing two Departments of Forestry, one in Thessaloniki and again in Orestiada, another three were added. And this was done without guaranteeing the true quality of education for students. The unreasonable, and without educational criteria, has therefore led to the degradation of studies, but has also jeopardized the existence of the old departments themselves, which have provided and provided a high level of study. It is a given fact that our education needs reforms in particular. These reforms will be aimed at a single objective, the qualitative upgrading of the studies provided, the supply of Greek children with more qualifications, which will meet the modern requirements. I started with Papanoutsos and I will close with the words of another great Greek teacher, who belonged to the area of the Left, Dimitris Glinos, who stressed: "The Greek education must enable the Greek to be enriched with all true intellectual and moral conquest of modern humanity, to make him synchronized, that is, modern, but not blindly mimic." Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u257	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr Giannoulis asked SYRIZA to make a correction. So he can do it. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u258	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have the trust that earlier I made an economy of time. I asked Mrs. Keramea a question...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u259	Mr Giannoulis, you said you would make a clarification - correction for something you said before. Don't speak now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u260	No, Mr President, the opposite. I'll make an explanation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u261	Keep going, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u262	I asked Mrs. Keramos before in relation to the circular issued for the Three Hierarchs day and under which there was a coordinate rather than mandatory church procedure, which also evolved into the relocation of the Divine Society of Students and Thessaloniki and, as I am told, also in Attica. I am simply correcting the fact that there was no misunderstanding that there was an orderly church, which allowed it to evolve into a group relocation. I say this on its health and not on the ecclesiastical, philosophical or religious side, and I ask for an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u263	Good, thank you very much. As I can see, all the rapporteurs will be seconded. Before I give the floor to the rapporteurs for a second reading, I would like the Minister to tell us, so that the rapporteurs can answer and take a position, which of the ministerial and parliamentary amendments is acceptable. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I have already said, all the ministerial amendments are accepted. As far as the Members of Parliament are concerned, the amendment, with a general number of 748 and a specialist, Mr Ioannis Loverdos, concerning the possibility of the Athens Academy being able to meet on the basis of a teleconference for the duration of the Coronovirus. I would also like to make a point on the amendment of a general number 747 and a special 65 of SYRIZA colleagues on the subject of 'Thematic Week'. I just wanted to remind Parliament that since June last year the Skills have been voted on, which, if I remember correctly, SYRIZA's colleagues were not negative, voted 'PARON', if I remember well. I would remind you that the thematic week was only for one week and only concerned high school. We introduced the Skill Labs which are for all year round, from kindergarten to high school, to a very wide range. The goal of Skill Labs is to focus more on development, on developing skills, mild skills, life-skills, technology skills through themes, such as volunteering, respect for others, road safety, sexual education and respect for the environment. All these subjects are weighted according to educational age, i.e. grade, and are made from kindergarten to high school. The pilot program is already being run in two hundred eighteen schools in the country for these Skill Labs. I remind you it's every week on the mandatory schedule and on all classes, from four to high school. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u265	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u266	Mr President, on this point...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u267	You'll see, Mr. Philly. I'll give you the floor. In view of the seriousness of the bill and given that we have time, instead of three minutes, we will give the rapporteurs five minutes. So on behalf of Mera25, Mr Sophia Sakova has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u268	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the most reactionary and anti-social bills will have been made in a few hours of state law. We have no illusion for the New Democracy, because these are its ruthless political choices, gentlemen of the New Democracy. We cannot and we never expect you to apologise for the children you exclude from higher education neither from the candidates of the PESA nor from the students of the Estonian Lyceums nor from them. You want to locate academic life in Greece. You want the SGC to perpetuate itself. You want there to be asylum for any kind of arbitrariness, such as, for example, an honorary doctor, Mr. Richter, an arrogant fighters of Crete and an eloquent "Knights" of Hitler. Because you know that you have great poverty in the real arguments, you have chosen to devour reality. You only invest in the conservative reflexes of a piece of society that is vulnerable to propaganda, because it has nothing to do with the academic Greek reality. We are talking about reflexes that you yourself have already dictated, through the timeless propaganda campaign, either with your direct political speech or with the willingness of the well-known media. These reflexes, which are your creation, come and invoke them to legitimise your reactionary political attack on society. Apart from that, to justify your policy, you also lead to irrationalities. I shall mention a typical example. I fully respect - and I mean it - the State Secretary, Mr. Syrgos. But it doesn't matter, the face. It's just worthy of the government party. What way did he find it to justify the organisation and the continuous presence of police in universities? I repeat, we're talking about the police in the universities, this legislative disgrace you're making today. So Mr. Syrigos told us that the university is the main area of free reasoning, freedom of movement of ideas, the uninterrupted conduct of research and teaching. In fact, it was also invoked by the King's famous saying that 'whoever freely thinks, thinks well'. Really, what else are we gonna hear? What are you telling us? You tell us that, to think freely, to think well, we have to have a police officer everywhere and always beside us. And, if this applies to the very area of free thinking, free movement of ideas as defined by Mr. Syragos, imagine what will happen elsewhere. Who could imagine that this is how the Enlightenment will arrive in our days and in Greece, Mr. Mitsotakis? However, it would have been impossible if King Ferraus had imagined it when he wrote it! The king, who melted in the dungeon of the then state, and ended up drowning in the river with his companions then the enclaves of power, obeying the above commands! So the King asked you for Catholic police custody, for he wanted free reason! Does this distortion seem impressive to you? Maybe it isn't. The right-wing party in Greece sent its politicians to the dungeons of Security, to prisons, to exiles and to dry islands for decades, until they learned to reason freely, to think well! So you made, as you yourself proudly said, the "Christians of modern Greece in Macronisia". You'll tell me, what are you doing and remember now? I don't remember them. Unfortunately, you remind us of them! I will not particularly refer to the incident in front of the GDR yesterday, because it is a repetitive incident. However, the repeated incidents of repression and arbitrary action show that for your police, as you train it, the people's representative, the MP, has no value to impose respect. In the face of the uniform without distinctions of Mr Chrysochoidis and Mr Mitsotakis there is no respect for anyone, nor of course for the ordinary citizen, who must be treated as an enemy. So the problem is not me. The problem is your own policy of uncontrolled authoritarianism. It's the treatment our children have from you in schools and out of them. I wonder if you have set as a government a target for the incubation. With how many quotations a day will you consider that you have covered your goals and that your policy is justified? The truth is that the police are fully aware that they operate outside the tolerable limits, whether on political or social criteria. That's why they unrelentingly attack photojournalists who do their job. That's why they're diving the phones of the passers. And that's what they're trained for. Do what you're doing, but make sure they're told not to have any evidence left. In the days of your government, we had only one peaceful demonstration, the one in which - for your own sake again - you chose not to interfere with the police. But it seems to be easier to answer what the real cause of the turbulence is. It's just government demonstration of authoritarianism. We told you the day before yesterday that society has the right to defend itself, and it is certain that it will. He will not sit with his hands crucified to accept the government's attack on the lives of every citizen in this country. And you seem to have chosen the way to defend yourself, i.e. intransigence and repression. This is the shape you want the country to move forward. It's your right to want it. We, however, are fully aware that power will also be defended by nails and teeth, because what is important is to promote its plan. And you will also be defended with the tactics of the "Ministry of Police" which, on the accession of Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, should be typically the first of her classes. But you have other ways to avoid revealing the real face of power. In this area, the Ministry of Culture recently delivers lessons. Keep it up. Your authority will have very close legs, like the greatest lie, like the lies you use all the time, to close the eyes of society and extend your stay to the government. We will certainly not vote for this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u269	Thank you, Madam President. Mrs Asmakopoulou has the floor on behalf of the Greek Solution. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u270	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Mr. Undersecretary, Mrs. Undersecretary, education is the beacon that leads us to culture. It is the compass that directs us to learning and cultivation. Both soul and spirit. The Greek education system is driven to depreciation, due to its inability to offer that essential education and education that is deemed necessary in such a competitive and rapidly evolving society. The public university shall not be guaranteed as an area of lawlessness and protection of any kind of unlawful act. And this should be well put in their minds by those who believe the opposite or those who believe that in these sacred spaces parties should be hatched. Student groups play a dominant role in university decline. None at all have the parties in the public Greek universities. Out of all educational establishments! The mess that had been created over the past decades must finally be stopped. The university is an area of excellence, merit and the promotion of scientific knowledge and research. In Greek universities there needs to be the asylum of ideas, the asylum of the spirit, not the asylum of illegality, which must be stopped without further delay, because the area of education has already passed much. Higher education institutions must in no way constitute a core of undermining illegal and criminal. We cannot remain in the same spectators work. It is incomprehensible in the fields of teaching where future scientists are created and cultivated to help society with the knowledge and skills they have acquired, to tolerate material damage or the destruction of public property. Those who destroy should know that the damage they have caused will necessarily be paid by them and that, when you dismantle public property, you are at the same time forced to take full responsibility for your actions. Today they vandalize. Tomorrow what will they do? The vandalism of university establishments is unfortunately becoming part of everyday life. The exit from the university as a disciplinary measure to those responsible for these actions is the only serious and appropriate solution, which we have proposed to you, because they are deliberately and consciously affected by the Greek public university. How many times have we seen tragic, cruel images, images of disgrace from public universities, where drug users can enter by finding shelter in space, turning daily life into nightmares for students and academics and using toilets, stairs, and even in teaching rooms, so that university spaces become health bombs? And how many times have these people manifested aggressive behaviors, which threatens the physical integrity of students, teachers and staff, that is, people fighting for knowledge? It must put an end to all of this, and in particular to the multi-formal degradation of the public HEIs. We must stop the theater of irrationality and take responsibility. The educational process should not be disturbed. Efficient care of the university's premises is a very serious task, which must be done by staff with serious and appropriate training for this by a special protection body, as we have mentioned many times. We need safe universities. We stressed our opposition to the government's attempt to fill the country's SNEs with "loan" workers with fixed-term private-law contracts, which can be extended to five years and, in particular, extend to what is relevant to the establishment of the security and security unit, where special tasks may also be entrusted directly to private individuals following the conclusion of a relevant service contract. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr President, and I'll be done. We also disagree with the authorisation of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs to regulate the issues of holidays, holidays and celebrations, i.e. national holidays and the church or absenteeism and the designation of school, the date of end and start of registration and others, because of the coronary, but also the exemption from the Religious. Why? Why would this mandate be expelled by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs for Religious Affairs? A very serious issue is also the further strengthening of vocational education, which can undoubtedly be a serious option and bring about a faster professional rehabilitation for those who wish to choose it. However, the same applies to vocational guidance, as the modern educational system treats him as a predator and thus fails to diagnose their real skills in time and to guide them towards the appropriate professional choice, thus creating the phenomenon of eternal students. Similarly, it does not manage to present the entire range of professional choices to young people, creating them the wrong impression that there are only few professional ways out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u271	Please finish, Mrs. Asmakopoulou. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u272	Before I close, let us not forget that the departure of young people from our country abroad, where they were forced to seek a decent job, must finally be overturned by providing more incentives for their return. Both during the meetings in committee and on the relevant report to plenary, we in the Greek Solution were, we are and will always be clear. Education must bloom, not be shot and finally murdered, because the pathogens of the past lead it to murder. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u273	On behalf of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Yiannis Delis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u274	If, ladies and gentlemen, we blow the dust of propaganda and cleanse our eyes and our minds from the raspberry, the vocalist and the fireworks that accompanied this bill and we are looking for its substance, its core, then we will not find it hard to understand its class content, its reactionary content. This is a bill which declares a complete frontal attack on the cultural rights of children of workers, people's families, both those who are trying with too many sacrifices against obstacles and barriers to enter the university and those who eventually manage to get in and want, try to finish it. You come here and ask yourself, "But everybody at the university now? We've got most students. They must be less." The Prime Minister said so too. ‘There are other educational and professional routes.’; How many times didn't the Minister say that? "But everyone at university now?". The question is a misunderstood one. The right question is another and it is this: What is, really, what determines a child's educational and, ultimately, a child's professional path? Is it not his wallet and social origin? Well, that's exactly what you're going to reinforce even more, the class choice to become even more stringent, since you're raising new class barriers with the bill and before the university and also during his schooling. You are therefore raising a new major obstacle, called the'minimum basis for introduction'. It is a well-intentioned cutter, which is expected to fly out of the university schools of thousands of children this year. Will it be twenty thousand, twenty-five thousand, thirty thousand? It will, however, be thousands of the workers, of the people's families. Among them, there are six hundred young people in the summer high school for whom this bill abolishes the right positive distinction, 1%. I am presenting to the Minutes, if and if this is restored, the letter, the cry of agony by the Esperinos GEL Kallitheas Mathematical Council. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] One obstacle which you are raising - and I am speaking of the minimum basis for introduction - after the Bank of items, after the fierce competition in the care taken in the second and third grades of high school, and here Mr Gabroglou's work is visible - and the psycho-corruption process of the pan-Hellenics. This school - we said it and we will say it again - the exterior, the bourgeoisie, the poor in education and content is your creation and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and before PASOK. Eventually, however, this EBRD, a minimum import base, has other consequences. It's going to deepen categorisation in schools, degrees, and so to graduates. Therefore, in the'shelves' of the capitalist labour market there will be even more and even cheaper workers to find the entrepreneurs. And a reminder again of the government's MPs. Their retrospective tears on the consequences of this vote in regional schools will not even be crocodile. They will cause rage and indignation. So it's good to think about all this before they vote. Next to the great "cutter" of the minimum import base, there is also the dual computer, which will play the role of the random distributor in those positions that remain empty, which will be repeated for the minimum positions of the public IEK, because by your law in December you close several of them. We'll talk about it again. The quality of importers is not a question of the examination system. It is a responsibility, it is a result of the educational system, and therefore the only one after all that is available - only that is extremely expensive - to the children of workers, the people's families who will not manage to enter the university is colleges, which are not all the same. They're categorized. Colleges for which I would remind you that sixty-four SYRIZA Members asked the then Minister for Education, Mr. Gavroglou, not to delay the recognition of their diplomas and the recognition of their professional qualifications. For this reason, I am really putting this question to Members of the SYRIZA in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Delis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, class barriers do not stop at university entrance. They also continue within it and such is the 'n+2', that is, the limit of the education. In short, the government, which delays students' studies and does not open their schools for a year, has the courage to set strict limits on study and threatens to delete them from the above. When? When at least 40% of them work in jobs, mostly uninsured and comes and asks them and badges above, to do what? In order to help them with some financial means or by making sure of their student needs? Oh, no. To help them, he says, by extending their studies, instead of helping them to finish them as quickly as possible. Of course, all this multiforme, the repressive legal arsenal that is activated by the bill, either in the form of student disciplinary bodies, whether in the form of state-of-the-art systems for monitoring and scaffolding, or with the permanent camping of police forces at universities, is not simply explained, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, by the ideas of the New Democracy, as you repeat monotonously for days. There is a more profound and more substantial cause, and that is exactly what SYRIZA wants to cover up, and it is not just the growing business function of universities and their subjectivity to the therapists of business multinational groups. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The example of the University of Oxford, which changed to an ASTRAZENCA laboratory, is here in front of us. We see them, we live them, with the well-known results of extortion against the health of millions of people. What, besides, is human pain in the face of capitalist superprofits?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u275	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u276	I shall now conclude, Mr President. The same in the Netherlands - if you want to talk about international experience, that is - where entire universities have changed to annexes to the 'PHILIPS', which operates entire sections of it with trainees, completely free of charge. In our country, he started in PADA, West Attica University. A reason for the content of his studies has been given - and they have naturally succeeded - the Greek shipowners, who were then photographed after their agreement with the then Minister of Education of SYRIZA. With these business criteria, then, there are the international assessments that you all so much love about urban universities and their rankings in the rating tables of international houses. With these criteria of "University S.A." you agree. With these criteria for autonomous, extroverts, etc. You all agree, and New Democracy and SYRIZA and KINAL. With these criteria, you have legislated and legislated. That's why every government catches the thread from where she left it and takes it down. He's not cutting it. He's taking it down. It's your common strategy, which is not hidden, whatever disorientation powder you raise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u277	Mr. Delia, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u278	Mr President, I shall conclude in thirty seconds. This university is coming to take care of the diverse repression, which is of course intensified, and we must not forget jobs, work of warfare, which opens up NATO, this murderous organization, with our country's universities, especially Thessaloniki. For all these university "bishops" are aimed at the threatening provisions of the bill, which provides for penalties not only for deletion from their schools, but up to three years in prison for students who are mobilized and collectively question and fight against all of this. Your government policy - and now, of course, I am looking at the New Democracy, because it is in the government - is questioning the rights to knowledge and to educate the children of workers, the people's families, as it is being done, and the working and social rights of their parents.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u279	Thank you very much, Mr. Delis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u280	These cultural rights of the people's children we defend with all our power as a JRC. These children and their parents, with their teachers, are demonstrating so many days to defend them and these children with their struggle will effectively abolish these laws and we will be next to them by the end. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u281	We're going with arithmetic progress. We started with six minutes, seven, nine. Mrs. Kefalidou from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u282	Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the only thing that has been certain so far is that the government has not moved its mind that the rector authorities are completely unable to do their job, a job that the state has entrusted them with. They don't know, they can't command universities, they can't ensure their proper and uninterrupted operation in an environment of security for all members of the academic community. That's what we hear in here. To paraphrase Papadiamantis, one would say that our universities claimed the self-determination on purpose to prove that they were not capable of self-government. That is what the government believes, and this forceful conviction makes use of the bill we are discussing. On this basis, therefore, it builds up a structure on a bare foundation, but at the same time it does it both glamorous and shiny, with a childish maniculation of the formula "here good, there evil, here class, there immunity, here law, there lawlessness". Evidently the government is stepping on the chronic culture of indifference and ochalophy, which we all had together, the government, opposition, extra-parliamentary, trade unionists, youth, academic community. We have been diligently cultivating this very culture for decades, mortals all in a constant crime with a victim of Greece. The problems of the HEIs are hot, they are no longer going, but for some undetermined reason we, the so intelligent Greeks, have never been able to solve them. The whole world has solved it and gone forward, but we're not. Ladies and gentlemen, the reason for our ineffectiveness is neither ignorance nor lack of competence. The reason is that we are talking without honesty. We hide behind our finger while pouring punctures under the table into the secret agendas of our micro-stakeholders. Honestly, we will admit that we have managed to get through to the collective consciousness of whole generations of students, those who should have at the university to get knowledge, develop personality and science, that building explosives, tearing down the school, destroying the public property that parents pay out of their misery, swearing those who disagree with you, blackmailing colleagues, occupying teaching rooms for offspring, the right to self-determination of Eskimos, "built" teachers in their offices are commendable acts of political activism and acceptable forms of revolutionary expression. This is the sad landscape that our chronic athletics have shaped, and this gives the government the opportunity to go to the opposite end, from the frustration of criminal inertia to the courage of obsolete constitutional violations. With a bill of inappropriate nature - so it seems - and problematic arrangements, all that the Minister has achieved is to unite in a disgusting mass of 'blacks', nonuniversity, drug dealers and activists, revolutionaries, but especially the young children who have just passed to the university and have come to taste the joy of their success. You'll find them all across the street and they'll all be together. Warm congratulations! You burn SYRIZA down for lack of suggestions and blind denial. Right. However, I have not heard a word about the proposals of the Change Movement, which you have said very much, but you have completely ignored. I would like to ask you: is all that has happened on the three days of the debate here is dialogue? It turns out that you prefer the monarchal expression of power instead of the dialogue. You have been unmovable in your position, denying any constructive dialogue, with the certainty of your majority. That is why, with your responsibility, it is a barren monologue, a three-day debate. I would also like to make a small reference here, because you spoke of a call during the time when we were legislating for technical education. I want to tell you, Mrs Kerameau - and I have told you in writing - that the dialogue has rules. It can't be vacant. There must be a framework, which is no more than the positions of the government that it legislates. You invited us, we agreed, on one condition, to give us a text within the framework of your legislative initiative, which, of course, has been dominated by the media throughout that period. We were never given. But now, after all the time we legislate in this Chamber, we understand that it should not surprise us, because you understand the dialogue as a monologue. I would like to ask you: do we want strong, safe, operational and reliable universities that will produce trained scientists, as society and the economy needs? If your answer is a clear "yes", without asterisks, reservations and exceptions, things become very simple. In terms of safety and security: controlled access to all, adequate guarding, not with portrait and well-established clerks, but with a body of trained guards, with modern equipment, mentioned, accounted for and controlled by the administration of universities, which are in close cooperation with the police, which is present, where, where and as far as is necessary, the undone provision of asylum still recent. Also, responsible administrations, who honor and protect the privilege of self-government and with their own responsibility implement a plan of protection and security in their area, with the legal arsenal they have today, with the vast majority of society on their side, with the police present and ready to intervene. It is time that the administrations of the HEIs leave behind the earlier life of rest, steam and fear. Presuming to run while laboring extreme, violent minorities is no longer tolerated, nor is it for free. In an adult state, the state has an obligation to provide infrastructure and resources. From there on the responsibility lies with the elected administrations. They need to know that they take responsibility. They must protect their space, maintain their infrastructure and be accounted for their operations and omissions, paying the relevant account. Those who do not bear the burden of the administration should be confined to their teaching duties. Not everyone's doing this job. Nobody pushed them to take her. And as long as he has glamorous and grandeur, he has great demands and responsibilities. It needs skills, vision, boldness, perseverance and commitment, and it is certainly not work for anyone. There is no way in which this work should be entrusted to the management boards, provided by the Diamantopoulou Act, and which the Minister could bring back if she wanted. But then, of course, he would not have had the opportunity to appoint the Thousand Thirty Special Guards. What we have just presented to you is the proposal of the Change Movement, that is a common sense proposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u283	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u284	The HEIs of a modern adult society are as much as it takes. They provide reliable studies and knowledge and their degrees are essentially a provision in the labour, social and economic sectors. They don't have eternal students. They have high-quality studies, pre-required courses, so you can move on next year. They have predictions for employees and special cases. You don't go into these universities writing your name in a white glue. But to hit the problem at its root, you start with a holistic high school reform. And that is the other proposal that we have tabled to you, and we have not even heard a word about it. We support the establishment of the National High School Dismissal using a Topic Bank.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u285	Come on, Mrs. Kefalidou, you've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u286	Please very much, Mr President. I'm getting to the end. Thank you in advance for your tolerance. National dismissal, therefore, using a theme bank and a single student evaluation in European standards. Clearly, honestly, it is the most clearest, because it gives the opportunity for a true and overall picture of the student and it is acceptable throughout Europe. We don't find the wheel. You are also not confined to stating five sections, which are usually a science in five different cities. You choose a certain number of different fields, related to the direction you took in high school, and you enter according to your overall performance. In these universities, students are not deserted and alone looking for their course as fleas in the hay, but the mentor is next to them, watching them, helping them, from the first day to the graduation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u287	Mrs. Kefalidou, you've reached ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u288	These universities have rules of operation, which apply to all members of the academic community, from the student to the dean. Finally, rules, rules which are clear and practicable, which affect any infringement. It is clear, then, that the leadership of the Ministry of Education and, finally, the government does not want such a university. It can neither withstand the trouble and the time it takes nor the consents it needs. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u289	We said there was a comfort in dentistry, but, when the main speech is fifteen minutes and the seconds go in ten minutes, you realize we're getting away. Now the next speakers will also take advantage of it and say that they want ten minutes too. Mr Phillips, of course, because he has a condensed speech, will speak much less, but in any case. Come on, Mr. Philly, you have the floor. Please keep the time while you can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u290	Thank you, Mr President, for your understanding in advance. Minister, public opinion has been surprised to observe these days the history of sexual harassment at the expense of even minor children in previous years. We don't know what's going on today. These are issues which, unfortunately, are overwhelmed by silence, by guilty silence. We therefore suggested that you reintroduce the Thematic Week in schools, so that we can discuss issues relating to racial identities, discrimination, equality, sexual education with children. Children and high school are now mature to discuss these issues, so that they do not become the object of these actions, of irresponsible actions. You replied that you abolished the thematic week that we set, without evaluation by the Institute for Educational Policy, and replaced it, you said, with skills, the Skills Labs. Yes, sir. Only in two hundred schools from a total of about ten thousand school units. Is that the answer? Look, we're at a crucial moment for society. Don't pretend we don't understand. Let's not expect a new Beccathero case to open our eyes. Now in schools open this issue through the Theme Week. Strategic identities, sexual discipline, equality between sexes. Ladies and gentlemen, I quote: 'Police come to universities, democracy comes to the universities'. It's the Prime Minister's flagship phrase from this Step here. It is, I would say, the notorious 'common logic'. What, then, is that the phrase? It is the definition of police rule, a variant of father Mitsotakis' decision when he was Prime Minister, who had said to the police: "The state is you." Now, even worse, the current Prime Minister says the police are democracy. Above all, repression, fear. Not only at universities, here is an area of application, an area of experimentation, undemocratic experimentation, but throughout society, everywhere authoritarianism, in industrial relations, in the marches, in personal, human freedoms, everywhere authoritarian, repression. Repression as a New Democracy ideology. That is the big problem, and that is your famous 'common logic', a totalitarian logic, a common logic of totalitarianism. You want universities to be closed, selfish, competitive, opaque, uncontrolled and not universities of participation, democratically, open to society, institutions of education, research, teaching and the promotion of science. You'll tell me everything will be judged in practice. Of course, they will be judged in practice. Nothing ends today, that you will vote with your predetermined majority of this law. I have heard many New Democracy Members parade this Step and reminded me of a cloning of EROFITs. ETUC was ETUC's student organisation before the junta. Cluster cloning from this step. They talked about Greek universities in a way of dismantling. Neither a good word nor a recognition of success in the international classification. 'Men of terror', that was for them. Mr Mitsotakis came here later and referred to the Lambrakis, in this movement for the regeneration of youth, the democratic and cultural regeneration of youth. He said the Lambrakis wanted children to learn and fight. Sure. The Lambrakis, however, wanted children to learn and fight against her great security, Karapanagiotis, Kalyvas, Yannomitro, all this ego of torturers after the heart of the dictatorship. Because there's a relationship between the Great Security School before the junta and the torture in Bubulina, on the roof, of these scumbags. And what do you guys do now? You bring with a new version, digital, modernized, but always repressive, this great at universities. I'd be unfair if I only stayed in it. And I stress that the Prime Minister has not been able to speak about the EVO and say 'e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e-e' here. The Lambrakis talked about. That's where he went to find a good example. I would be unfair, however, if I were not referring to something Mr Varoufakis mentioned in WIKILEAKS and I will speak more thoroughly. What does the American Embassy in Athens demand persistently since 2008? Do we have here the absolute report by the Ambassador to Athens at the time, by Daniel Specthardt, which highlights the annoying issues about America in the Greek universities, which are asylum, the lack of recognition of colleges - remind you of these? Your first moves are -, student politicisation on the left, teacher union. The documents reveal the friendly relations between the Embassy and the officials of the New Democracy, as well as the propaganda and teachers from the universities, with the Embassy pressing for drastic solutions. There is a document entitled "University asylum in Greece: When democracy goes wrong". How did Mr. Mitsotakis say? "The police are coming, democracy is coming." Watch it. What does the American Embassy request? The educational landscape in the country is recorded as violent and the asylum is accused of being responsible for the missing six months of students, for the delay in graduation, for the deterioration in universities. It's all about the asylum, about the psychological burden of the administrations of the U.S... Also, the document, apart from anarchists and "bulkides", talks about involvement or support for these phenomena from the KKE and SYRIZA. The arguments and vocabulary of the reports are the same as you, in the House, in the New Democracy: asylum in universities, impunity, shelter for criminals, drug trafficking, theft, vandalism, plundering, etc. etc. It is the Vulgata of reactionary ideology at the expense of the Greek universities. As early as 2008, the Embassy has called for the abolition of asylum and the strong presence of the police in the universities. In her reports she also mentions that Greece is still very strong anti-American and especially in universities, the Embassy is unwanted. Legislation on order, but not pressured. You want it. That's what's going on with you. That's who you are. That's what the American Embassy says when it's the American universities. You know, in America, too many people are armed. You know that in America at universities, at campus, every year there are tens of thousands of crimes. There is no intervention by the FBI, but forces operating in the direction, the guidance of the university authorities. Here's only two hundred offenses a year in universities. There tens of thousands, and even heared, rapes, murders, thefts, robberies, drugs, disasters. In America these. They do not, however, intend to do what Mr Chrysochides and Mrs Kerameo are doing in the American universities. They're protecting them by their own procedures. Look, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. In the American universities, especially now, after this great mobilisation against social inequalities and racism, the so-called 'annulment culture' is growing even stronger. Students cancel lessons of different professors - and Nobelist, in fact, canceled in America - because they consider that their courses are in favour of social inequalities and racism. The most important universities. Let's see the Internet. Hundreds of such cancellations. It is the so-called 'blocking culture'. They were not conceived to send praetorians against students. They talk to them, they find solutions and the teachers themselves sometimes say "yes, we're leaving, we can't..."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u291	Finish it, Mr. Friend.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u292	I'm done, of course. So the colonial regime for universities is seeing that there is in the report of the American Embassy. I repeat, they're not pushing you, you want it. Symptom. Ladies and gentlemen, we have talked in detail about social discrimination, class barriers, the crescendo of examination barriers from high school to universities, which is intended to drive children out of education early and send them to minor work after high school, to intensify school breaks, to prevent them from going to universities at the same time as the whole of Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u293	Good. Mr. Philly, you've been in ten minutes too. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u294	I'll just be a minute. I am sorry, but the problem, as has been rightly said by other colleagues, is not a problem of examination, it is a problem of deep education. Don't look at the third grade, which has become a tutorial at the moment, you're looking at the whole training. We need a 12-year compulsory school and a two-year pre-school education, which we as SYRIZA have founded with many decades of delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u295	Good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u296	I'll be right over. They say and we hear it's the university's fault for unemployment. Wrong. It's not the university's fault because it produces a lot of students who are unemployed, it's the economy. "But we need other workers and scientists." Of course, there will be restructuring at universities, in the scientific directions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u297	Come on, please. You've reached eleven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u298	I shall conclude, Mr President. The question, therefore, is not today to cut the children off from the universities...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u299	Don't embarrass me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u300	...but to organize the scientific potential in the right direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u301	Good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u302	And I'm ending up with a minute, honestly. I heard an indictment about business universities earlier. We don't want the universities, we don't want any objections. But the "ASTRAZENECA" vaccine from the university, as well as other vaccines at this time, which is the result of not some fraudulent capitalists, but of the great effort of thousands of scientists in the world to bring to a public good in production in a short time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u303	Thank you very much. That's enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u304	...we don't give it so easily and with such dogmatism in capitalism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u305	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u306	So the universities want them to be found in research and teaching centres.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u307	Please. That's abuse now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u308	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. That is why we are going to be next to the struggles of the workers, the students, the university and the teachers. This law will not apply in practice and when a democratic government comes, it will abolish it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u309	The Bureau, although my predecessor had committed himself for three to four minutes, did it five. We said a tolerance up to seven, but not that thing. That's not right. Of course I will not cut you in ten minutes too, Mrs Papacosta. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u310	Thank you, Mr President. We were told for seven minutes. Minister, today a flagship bill is passed, a bill which was a pre-election commitment for us and a election work is being done. And I am very happy about that, and I would really like to thank you for the honour you have made to me and my group in order to enable me to propose this bill. I waited, to be honest, as a new Member, for this whole debate to really bring something - I mean from the opposition - and for us to have a fruitful debate. I have listened very carefully to all the speakers, all the parliamentary representatives. I followed it as closely as I could, indeed. And it is a pity, indeed, because for us our education requires a national consensus. Unfortunately, I feel, as I imagine the Greek people who are watching, that once again the orders have been lowered than the circumstances. There have been real extreme expressions in this space. We heard you say that we are in the House of the 1960s, where we are talking about rangers in universities, penalties and write-offs for students, for mobs, for mobbing, for monitoring, for recording communication systems. You spoke of extreme Sadism on the right for the Greek student and the poor parents. "Instead of knowledge and research universities," you say, "we are led to the university of Arbyl, the clubs and electronic mobism, at the University of '69". You say that the climate developed by the New Democracy colleagues is a climate of division, even a civil war. You say that we are talking about a public education that is obviously hostile and that the only value we recognize is the value of the goods that will be sold and bought. You say that our second and main enemy are students as active, as thinking citizens, that we want to serve the doctrine of "law and order", that it is a bill that is an extremist act of ideological tactics and obsession, that the bill that we are discussing is a social anal, anti-educational and anti-educational, that the junta had not institutionalised the Great and that we are doing so today and with the bosom of the Greek Parliament, that you call it freedom, police rule, opacity and that this is the trivial part of our governance. And so that whatever lies, as many slanders, as many slanderes as any provocachis, and if we use as the known incident of ASE, the Kerameos - Chrysochoidis bill is a bill alive - dead, a zombie bill, as student mobilisations have described itself. You've said a lot of other extremes yet. You said we're not ashamed, nipple. You said that we have a nerve, that we are not conscious and empathetic, that it is disgraceful what we are doing, that we are punishing the world, that we are not friendly, that we are deeply nighty, inhumane, ruthless, analgeous, that we are uninvited, out of fact, that we swear the universities, that we are doing alchemys, that we are not showing mercy. Do we really have all this? You asked for something even sadder. Mr. Delis, that sounded from you. Your MEP said that. Did you ask us to bend our head and not talk? Did it really be said in this House that we should bend our head and not talk? Is that what you want for our universities to hear just one view and the opposite view? Where do you think we studied? Of the hundred and fifty - eight New Democracy MPs, the hundred fifty studied in Greek public universities. Do you hurt more than we do? What right do you consider them to be your vilaeti? And if we may not have had a choice to study in private universities, our children from choice have sent them to public universities, to public schools, when your president, Mr. Friend, sends his children to private schools. So who are you to tell us that you're cut off for public education more than us? With what argument?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u311	Cheap. Very cheap.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u312	No, Mr. Philly. Cheap is all you said that you want our universities really...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u313	Tell us something else. Tell us about the cops at the universities, about the junta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u314	Mr. Philly, why are you interrupting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u315	I didn't interrupt you. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u316	Mr. Friend, did anyone interrupt you? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u317	You want our universities strangled yesterday. You want our universities to be stricken in pathogens for your own reasons, which I explained in my report and I do not want to become tiring by repeating them. Our Minister said so too. All of our Members, speakers and our Prime Minister have said so. Are you accusing us of being undemocratic, when your sixty-eighty universities signed a resolution in favour of the rights of Kufontina, the architrocrat, the chief executive? It took them the pain of where Mr. Koufantinas will prejudicate, whether he'll do it to Domokos or the Koudalus? Is that your concern? You're saying there's no problem. I have heard that from young Members on the left, that our universities are the best, that we find them. We never boiled up our universities. We honor them and prove it to them, by deeds and not by words. We, however, want universities which are qualitative and linked to the labour market, to offer diplomas reliable, with a view to our children and not to make them snails in the walls and to go to work as wardrobes in various businesses. We want them to have choices. We want education that is modern, innovative, competitive. And what did you do? You prevented us. You took the country back ten years. We have lost an opportunity through the Constitutional Review to introduce private education, when fifty thousand of our own children go abroad and we lose incredibly millions, our economy, which so much needed after a ten-year crisis. And they go to all the countries in the world, but we can't have that in Greece. And you're tempted by colleges, like the kids who go to study abroad aren't middle-class kids, they're not family children who sell their properties to give their children a second chance. It's like we right-wings are just elite or they come from shipowners. No, gentlemen, we're middle class. We're most of them if you want to know and claim for our children the best. This bill really does. Because freedom in universities is not meant without security. That is in response to the argument you are saying: 'Why not take teachers, not hire?' But we hired him. Our Minister said it here, too. We hired two thousand teaching staff, five hundred 50 CP posts. We increased funds by 140 million, 90 million through the ESDP. But you don't see that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u318	When did this happen? They happened to your mind.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u319	You can't see them. There's evidence, Mr. Philly. Don't interrupt me. Listen. Learn to listen. We're listening. And our Minister proved it, because all the comments made by the Scientific Committee have been incorporated within the framework.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u320	Listen and beating!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u321	As we have also taken into account the fact and we institutionalise that no camera will be available in a classroom. But you don't listen to society. You're talking about us, but you're not listening. You say we pay polls. We're not paying. I would like, however, before I go to that, to say: I was listening to it by many colleagues and I was thinking at the time, it came to my mind - I mean that there is no problem in education and that everything is going well, so we don't have to change something, it's all fine - this poor mother of the two young people who beat the stationlord and sent him to the hospital. So this mother said to defend her children: “My children are diamonds. They shall also have proficiency.’ That's what you reminded me of. Our education, our public universities are diamonds. We've got the N.A.D., which is one in two hundred first. Yes, of course. Can you imagine our universities really at what locations would they be if we could ensure all those academic conditions and the safety of our students and our academics? Can you imagine where our universities would be and how much higher places? You say society is against us. No, gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u322	Ms. Papakosta, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u323	Mr President, please give me some tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u324	You've spoken ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u325	I'll be as short as I can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u326	Please, get it over with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u327	No, I'm not done, Mr. President. You'll give me two more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u328	I'll give you a minute. You will speak as much as Mr. Friends has spoken, about four and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u329	Society is with us. For the police at the universities, SYRIZA, 38.3%, that is almost 40%, and 19.2% from the KKE. For controlled entry into universities, 60.4% is agreed by the JRC and 36.2% by the JRC. For the basis of import 52.2%. The JRC is 48.9% and the CINAL 77.6%. You say students and academics are across from us. In the resolution of the six hundred thousand students signed a thousand two hundred, neither 1.2% of teachers nor 5.2% of teachers. What society are you talking about? What society are you talking about? And I would like to close with that, Mr President, and you will allow me. I'm twenty-five years of fighting lawyer and so many lies that have been heard in here I've never heard of before. I'm honest with you. And I'm gonna close up with a lie that I'm really shocked with. Came your SYRIZA MEP, Mr. Vernardakis, and filed a document from the Ministry of Citizen Protection? Did he have the nerve to submit a Citizen Protection Document in a question answer about how many incidents there have been since August 2019 until today? And he's happy to tell us that we're legislating on the basis of four incidents in a year?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u330	Please complete. You've been in 12 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u331	I shall conclude, Mr President. And he claimed that there are only four incidents and that these two hundred six can't be accounted for, why do they concern premises outside universities, when the document clearly says that they were confirmed in the premises of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, two hundred six offenses, eighteen to the point of felony?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u332	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u333	So who's lying? So who's lying in this Chamber? I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u334	It's over, but you've been in the thirteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u335	Our Republic is self-destructive - and I said it in my introduction - because it abuses the right to freedom and equality because it has taught citizens to view insolence as a right, illegality as freedom, indifference of speech as equality and anarchy as bliss. And in France they say there are two categories of people: those who create things and those who keep things from happening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u336	Good, thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u337	We belong to the blame of the people we create things, while you are quite the opposite. [[CHANGING PAGE]] [[To enter pages 214-216]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u338	Listen, please. There was a tolerance in the face of the seriousness of the bill for all of you. However, it is not possible that the time of dentology is about the same as the time of protology. It can't be respected. The Bureau will therefore be required, from now on, to strictly keep the working hours, in other words to sum up the time of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of the term of office. That's not how it works. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u339	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin with something Mr Friend said about Skill Labs. And I would like to clarify, Mr Philly, that we have voted together here in the House. Skill Labs are an institution that started for the first time this year and launched pilots in two hundred eighteen schools in the country, from September to all schools in the country, not in high school, preschool, primary and high school, not for a week, for all year round within the mandatory schedule. Why? Because for us the transmission of knowledge is equally important and it is also important to cultivate skills, mild skills, life skills, technology skills. That is why we have already introduced, Mr Phile, within the mandatory timetable for thematic sections, such as respect for others, respect for diversity, sexual education, volunteering, entrepreneurship, respect for the environment. So that's already been in school. And watch one more thing. They're in training. They haven't just entered by leaving the teachers in the ballast. Oh, no. And the two hundred eighteen schools that started after the educational activities of the Institute of Education Policy, after collaboration with the universities of our country. I come to the bill, ladies and gentlemen. For over a year and a half, we have been systematically legislating from the bottom up, from the pyramid base upwards. We have legislation on school, vocational education and training, the university. And, despite the pandemic, we continue and implement our reforms. The only easy thing, ladies and gentlemen, would be to say that we are dealing only with the management of the pandemic. This is no time for reform. We do not do so because, alongside the management of this health crisis, the unprecedented health crisis, we also have a duty to bring about the important changes that our country needs and on the basis of which we have been elected. And it is my belief that all of us, of the three hundred Members of Parliament, are confiscating that we are legislating despite the pandemic that the state is adapting, that the parliament is adapting and moving, that nothing stops democracy. The bill first appeared in the public debate in December, after the December Ministerial Council. It was put into public consultation in January. He received five hundred sixty-nine comments. Seven meetings were held in the House. They spoke a hundred and sixty-seven MPs, rapporteurs and parliamentary representatives only in plenary, twelve ministers, five political leaders. It's one of the bills that's been discussed most. And for this parliamentary procedure, for this rich dialogue, we must, I think, all be proud. Different views were expressed. Our rapporteur, Mrs Papakostas, exposed them in an excellent way. I won't stand on them. I will stand by the convergence points. I will stand by the fact that we have heard, recorded and incorporated your comments. Mrs. Asmakopoulou of the Greek Solution suggested that there should be special mention that university institutions seek to compensate universities for damages caused to public property. We have incorporated it and thank you very much for the comment, for the proposal. Mr. Friends has asked for it to be clear that whatever means they record, the cameras will not be at all in the area of teaching. We have already said that it will not concern the educational work, it will not be in the workplace. We've clarified it. Mr. Philie, listen, we're recording, we're joining. The Privacy Authority made comments. We've joined them. The House’s Scientific Service also made comments on disciplinary matters. We put them in, because that's the wealth of dialogue, that's the wealth of hearing, recording and integrating different positions. But I have to say, ladies and gentlemen, an answer, an answer to the people who are concerned about whether we are going to get back. The answer is that we will not take a step back, because we must bring about radical changes, which society so much needs, and let it be difficult, let it be tough on some truths. The only easy thing, ladies and gentlemen, would be to say freely at the university. "1"? With ‘1’. Clear. No, ladies and gentlemen, because the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has not been elected to give fruitful hopes to young people, to say to them: "Take a place and we do not care if you will ever be able to graduate if you are ever able to find work in jobs that are over-poured." We have been elected to give the new outlets, real outlets, to help them follow their calls and skills. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating - and this very large consultation is now being completed - is a bill of common sense, a bill of self-evidentness, but so necessary for the Greek public university. Let this last parliamentary debate on such self-evident issues, on the obvious point that it does not make sense to introduce one with one's '1' and '2' into the '20' into the Greek public university, that there is a reason why universities internationally anticipate a controlled entry, that they do not have a place in our universities of violence and lawlessness. So let this last parliamentary debate be on such self-evident issues. Let's all deal with the modern challenges of universities, the university that our young people, our teachers, all the staff in our universities, have, with the university that we are proud of as Greeks, with the Greek university with which they want to collaborate with leading foreign universities. Twenty-eight American universities, of which many Ivy League universities, expressed interest in cooperating with our top universities. This, ladies and gentlemen, deserves our universities, to demonstrate the real value of the Greek public university, to let them freely develop their activities, to grow even more. Ladies and gentlemen, as you have seen, I have avoided any references to different positions. It was intentional. I cannot, however, close this sitting with a report which, admittedly, shocked me as a Member of the Greek Parliament: the stigma regarding the incident of Mr Katsafandou, about what we have heard for so many days now. As we mentioned the incident of violence and lawlessness, Mr. Philis said a word and shouted: 'Chafados, Katsafandos'. And he came here, the Chief of Officer Response, and he built the entire speech around this central theme. So, did Mr. Katsafandos come here and what did he bring? He brought an acquittal judgment, not yesterday, 2007, if I heard it correctly. And he also brought a university dean's statement, which he says? Not only does the decision say that they were acquitted, but it says that Mr Katsafandos was not even present. But I come to the worst. And the worst is that I have heard - and if I didn't hear it well, please disprove me - that the members of the Officer's Opposition have no significance for judicial decisions? Is that possible? What do they say in the temple of democracy, that the rule of law does not matter, that judicial decisions do not matter? Is that the message we're going out? What are we talking about then? What are we talking about? What universities are we talking about if the position of Officer Opposition, until first government, is that there is no point in judiciary decisions? I'm so sorry, because I didn't want to end this tone. But I think this is such a shocking phrase, which I could only mention. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u340	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u341	Mr President, the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u342	There's no personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, a question has been raised and I would like to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u344	It's judging. It's not personal. See Rule 68 of the Rules of Procedure. There's no staff. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Introduction to tertiary education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions' is adjourned. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. Ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the bill, three motions for roll-call vote have been tabled by the SYRIZA, the Change Movement and the Communist Party of Greece. In more detail, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group has applied for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u345	Also, the Group of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement has applied for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u346	Finally, the Group of the Communist Party of Greece has applied for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u347	I will not read out the list of Members' names which sign the roll-call vote because, given the special circumstances, we consider that there are, attend and consent. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u348	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. Do you accept the three votes in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u349	The House agrees. So there will be one vote. Electronic roll-call vote will take place at the beginning of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u350	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the calculation which will be followed and submitted for the Minutes. [[The letters referred to above are lodged in the minutes and are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u351	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. At first, 298 Members voted. In other words, 'NAH', they voted 166 MPs. In other words, 132 Members voted against. No one voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u352	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the articles, amendments and the entire bill. The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u353	Consequently, following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: ‘Introduction to tertiary education, protection of academic freedom, upgrading of the academic environment and other provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u354	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u355	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-11-S1-commons.u356	With the agreement of the House at 22.03 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, February 12, 2021 at 9.00, on the subject of parliamentary scrutiny: a) the debate with 12/10/20-1-2021 on a topical question to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Fifty-six Members of the Radical Left- Progressive Alliance on the subject: "To protect workers, support their income, safeguard their working and insurance rights, restoring collective negotiations, safeguarding health and safety at the workplace and tackling unemployment"; and b) the debate on topical and urgent questions.
