ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to the Parliament's 9-12-2021 power, the minutes of its meeting of Thursday, December 9, 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law were ratified: ‘Legal Development Transition and Arrangement of Special Issues of Minimisation and other Urgent Provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment’.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate report on Monday, 13 December 2021, which reads as follows: A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 236/30-11-2021 topical question by MP Laconia of New Democracy Mr Athanasios Davakis to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Evolution of main road projects in Lakonia'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 241/2-12-2021 of the Member of the Radical Left Coalition, Emmanuel Thraniotis, to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Discrimination of the Ministry for the Opening of Higher Education Schools (AST)". 3. The question raised by Mr Georgios Mulkiotis, Member of the European Parliament, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on 'Is there a political will to support workers in food - tourism'? 4. The question by No 249/6-12-2021 was raised by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “The problems of staffing by nursing staff at the Intensive Treatment Unit (ITH) in Venizelos Hospital”, Heraklion Crete. 5. Under No 248/4-12-2021, a timely question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The Government violates the judgments of the European Court of Justice, dismissing the cleaning staff at the Ministry of Finance after twenty years of work." B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 263/6-12-2021 by Mr Anastasios Anastasios (Tasu) Hatzisvalou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "Institution of a reduced ticket to the MSMs for the families of third parties". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question raised by Mr Georgios Born to the Minister of Health under No 243/2-12-2021 is a topical question by the Member of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "To immediately renew the fixed-term contracts for workers in cleaning, feeding and safeguarding the health structures of the ESS". 3. The 255/6-12-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sports on the subject: "Restoration of sports facilities at the National Youth Sports Centre (EAKN) of Agios Kosmas". 4. The 251/6-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Archaic Streets, 850 meters in Haidari and Lake Koumoundourou are on a dangerous abandonment and demand protection". 5. The question asked by MP B2' Western Athens by the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister of Health on the subject: "In despair the citizens of western Athens due to serious shortages in primary health care structures. 6. The 257/6-12-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Enlargement instead of solving the problems of the earthquake affected by the earthquake in Arkalochori". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 253/6-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Small Olga, crime without clearance". 8. The 256-12-2021 topical question by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Sultana Eleftheriadou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "New data after Commissioner Schmitt's answer to strengthen ENERGEAN OIL & GAS". 9. Under No 258/6-12-2021, a topical question by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexis Haritsis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The inertia of the Government to take support measures leads to a collapse of the income of thousands of Corinthian raisin producers." 10. The question raised by Mr Stavros Arachovitis, Member of the Radical Left, Mr Stavros Arachovitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject of the danger of the continuation of agricultural production. 11. The 260/6-12-2021 topical question by the MP Corfu of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The quarantine zone of Corfu". 12. The question asked by MP Thesprotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Taking questions about the formal qualifications of the Director of the Igoumenitsa Port Authority (OLEG), as well as the exclusion of the land area of the port from its sale." REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece, Leonida Stoltides, to the Minister of Health, on "Problems of operation of the Anticancer Hospital of Thessaloniki due to the planned transfer of the daily care unit outside the hospital". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question, under number 879/32/4-11-2021, and application for the submission of documents by MP B2' West Athens Division of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: ‘Unjustified delays in the completion of a crisis procedure and selection of candidates for two branches of ESY doctors, child surgery specialist at the General Hospital of Children of Athens (GNAP)’. Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on FURTHER QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that today the number 239, 264, 246, 602, 247 time-consuming questions will be discussed. We are starting the debate with the second item number 247/3-12-2021 on the second question of the F Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Reimbursements by the peasants of Tyrnavos for the damage they have suffered since the ice in April". Mr. Lambroulis, good morning. You have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u2	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you. The question concerns, as you have mentioned, Mr President, compensation for the damage suffered by the peasant in April. We're now in nine months. The question, of course, says here seven months, but because of the constant postponements, Mr Minister, we have now come to discuss it. Either way, that's not reproach. Don't get me wrong. So, on the basis of this development and the government's announcements in June, in the summer, in order to pay part of the compensation, i.e. about 40%, we arrived in December, so what? Hundreds of farmers are getting very little from this 40%, not more than not getting at all, despite what I said, promises that were announced in the summer. At the same time - and a month ago, what we referred to in the question - a delegation of farmers, going to the local ELGA branch in Larissa, was informed that the overtime varieties of the Tyrnavo region, which were secured by the farmers, are out of compensation or compensated with much less money, with a characteristic example, as I say in the question, of a variety of nectarines which instead of 68 minutes the kilo will be compensated for by 42 minutes or, respectively, a variety of peaches which will be compensated instead of 68 minutes, 32 minutes. So you understand that once again in this production, as is the case with other crops at the same time, on the occasion of the frost, there have been problems with damage to the vineyards, table and compact peaches, as we have said, in cherries, kiwidi, apricots, plums, apples and pears. As a result of this delay, farmers are facing huge problems. The new growing season has already begun. On the one hand they have to face production costs, and on the other hand, survival issues are also on the other. These are necessary, as we do. So the questions we put in the question are whether the damages will be rectified and the 40% advance paid as the government has been announced and promised. To pay, at the same time, compensation from ELGA covering 100% of the losses and, of course, the constant request we make to this question, once again what is it? To change the ELGA anachronistic regulation to cover all losses to 100%, from all natural risks and diseases to the necessary, natural, state aid, funding and at the same time a reduction in farmers' contributions. At the same time, what these producers, like all farmers, are asking for is what? Reduction in production costs by means of specific interventions by the government in the direction of reducing the current to 50%, and of course, let us not forget that farmers' demand for oil is tax-free. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The State Secretary for Rural Development and Food will answer Mr. George Stylos. Mr. Style, good morning. You've got three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u4	Good morning. Thank you very much, Mr President. For the damage caused by the spring glaciers in 2021, mainly on trees, cereal crops, refreshments, horticulture, vines, etc., in the Larissa Regional Unit, including the Tyrnavos region, the necessary labelling was carried out, six hundred and twenty-three announcements were made and a total of twelve thousand four hundred seven damage statements were made. The assessments have not been completed. Therefore, ELGA, the insurance agency ran the procedure properly, of course, under the supervision and guidance of the Governing Council and the President of the ELGA. The advance payments provided for in Law 4820/2021 - our amendment that was voted on in the Greek Parliament by a vast majority - in various areas of the territory, including Thessaly, for the damage of ice, started from the first quarter of August and the three advance payments made in August, September and November 2021 totalled EUR 59 million. It is a process that has never been done in our country, and everyone knows that. The December payment included advances and compensation and EUR 46,2 million was paid. Overall, that is, EUR 105 million provided as advance payments for the spring glacier in 2021. In particular, EUR 12.5 million has been paid in the region of Thessaly to date, of which EUR 3,740,000 have been paid to Tyrnavo. All compensation is expected to be paid by the end of January 2022 and this delay, you know very well, that it is not due to the political leadership of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs or the administration of ELGA. It's a point of order. It is not that we do not have the money to pay farmers and producers, but it is a process through the ELGA and because of an administrative burden it is late for the citizens to be given money. You mentioned an issue with the overtime varieties in your question. Prior to submission of the IACC declarations, lists with the characterisation of the varieties are sent to the CMOs for information, and instructions on how to declare the over-priced varieties that may not be included in the list. In simple terms, information has been given to the IACS hosting centres, but also to the farming declaration, which varieties are precisely provided for in this process. Producers therefore have the opportunity to state the correct indication of the overtime varieties and will normally be compensated for the price of compensation per acre that is applicable to them, namely EUR 0.67 per acre. So anyone who has made his statement right will be compensated at EUR 0.67 per acre. That's the thing. It takes attention from the producers and from whom they authorize and pay, of course, to make their statements. Now in relation to the issues relating to ELGA, the current government for the first time after ten years and more, from the resolution of Law 3877/2010 and in application of Article 7, has strengthened the ELGA through the regular budget. Firstly, with EUR 34 million in July 2020, resulting in the payment of the 35% compensation due in a single instalment, with EUR 68 million in compensation for the affected 'January' regions within four months and EUR 30 million for the year 2021, and by the activation of the same article pays the grant retroactively for the years 2011 to 2017. It is money that the previous government of SYRIZA did not give, while according to Law 3877 it is planned for the administrative costs and administrative burden of the ELGA. Our own government, with its rationalisation and improvement in the country's finances, is consistent with its obligations towards ELGA. That's the ones in the first place. In the second place, I shall reply more generally to the producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u5	Thank you. Here you go, Mr. Lambroulis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Look, Minister, I will start with the overtime because that is, in fact, the core of the question and not the least because it is a subtle matter of the rest of the crops. I told you before - it is printed after all - that the information was from an official body, ELGA. He said to farmers that 'you will actually be paid 50% of the compensation provided'. I'm talking about the overreals. I have already heard in your prototype that they will be compensated on the basis of the prices we are talking about here, because the farmers themselves have given them to us and the ELGA. We didn't make it out of our minds. So, as far as the surpluses are concerned, we will compensate the farmers for 68 minutes per kilo, in terms of nectarines and, respectively, 68 minutes for peaches, of the particular variety you refer to. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you said on the occasion of the ELGA that you would give, you would. In ELGA if I'm not mistaken since 2011, a decade, state funding has stopped. State funding that was not granted was granted on the occasion of the 'January', other exceptional situations a year or less. You are now telling us that the amount that the State had to pay annually from 2011 to 2017 - which you mentioned for the five years, six years - will be paid to the ELGA. That's what you told us. From there on, of course, the ELGA and its regulation will have to change. The constant request you know, not to repeat it, I said it in my prototype. The question is, Minister, that we arrived nine months later, when, as I said, they entered a new growing season. The requirements are increased not only in terms of processing, the prospects of their crops, their production, but also in terms of survival. Yesterday I was told that much of them haven't even got 40%. You say that at the end of January they will receive the full compensation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u7	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u8	Isn't that what you said? There is, however, the other thing that I shall be tabling. Look at it and if you want and you can answer me, answer me. There is also this given that because some of the farmers have not paid the premiums in 2021, they are told: Pay the premiums, to compensate you, of course having settled debts or any insurance contributions they had to pay for the previous year, I mean for 2020. A prerequisite, then, is to pay the contributions to get the compensation. Of course - I will also present it to you as a memorandum - on the basis of these developments in the previous period, there have also been mobilisations by farmers, in particular with regard to compensation for the overtime varieties on the basis of what we have said, payment of the compensation at 40%, but also as a whole, and the restoration of the injustices, that they have not yet received. If those who haven't even got 40%, it's what you said they haven't made the applications, forgive me, solve these ELGA, OPEKEPE, Ministries a lifetime this story is done. The issue is that these people are nothing big, from which they live, and from this income they expect to meet their needs, their families, their children, to be able to continue to cultivate, to obtain farmland. Once again, we have discussed them in the past, and I would like to see an answer to these requests made with regard to the cost of production, electricity and oil. The fact that you gave 50 million to young people and cooperatives, effectively removing 130 million of the 180 which were being given as a return to oil you flew out of thousands of farmers. You know the numbers, we told them to another question. These people, what are they, of a lower god? They don't have a tractor? They don't put oil on their tractor? At the same time, the current needs a number of measures to alleviate them. Compensation, of course, must be paid and immediately taken to enable people to fulfil their obligations. From there on, however, parallel measures are also needed, which will facilitate, reduce the cost of production that has escalated up to the height of all that is done and accurately. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Here, Mr Style, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. ELGA is known as a reinsurance undertaking. It is an agency which collects the money that farmers, producers and according to the ELGA regulation, returns and gives compensation to those who have been damaged, to those who have been affected. So he manages money from the farmers themselves. So with respect and with responsibility we must manage this money. That is why the process is well known to all the reinsurance companies around the world. You've paid, you've paid the price, you've done the damage and you've compensated for the damage you've done according to the statement you've made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u11	You're going for an insurance company, ELGA. That's what you're telling us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u12	In this process and in this way what are we improving? That's for granted. It doesn't change. We are improving the time when the money will be given to farmers and producers. For this reason, when we have extreme and extraordinary weather phenomena, as the frost was in the spring of '21st or the "Janus or the fires in the summer comes the Greek state and speeds up all these processes. What other responsibility is the state? We have said so before, we have said to cover the administrative burden, the administrative costs for the operation of this agency. Our government, this is the reality, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is the one which consistently fulfils the obligations of the state, which had not been fulfilled in previous years. That's undeniable. It's really like I told you. Anyone who has made the crop declaration will be compensated up to 31-1-22 as a whole. We have this evidence from the ELGA. They're evidence from the services. They are not elements given by us, by the political leadership. I think there's gonna be the mistake. If some of them haven't been compensated, there's going to be a mistake somewhere. I think that it will not have been done in ELGA, nor of course has this mistake taken place in the Ministry's political leadership. In relation to ELGA, it is our government that has a transformation, modernisation and improvement plan for ELGA. First of all, we have proceeded to a programme agreement with the information society where we are going to go to a large digital upgrade of ELGA, so that we can reduce all times, speed up the process of labelling, assessments and have more accurate data than producers, which will give us speed and justice. That is, to the person who has suffered real harm being able to respond. So this programme agreement goes ahead. Very soon, in the next year, we will begin to have the first results, which will be in the interests of our producers. The change in the ELGA regulation was also a pre-election proclamation of the New Democracy, because we really know the problems that exist in connection with the regulation. One of this. Second, the season changes, new data come, the weather changes. We are now talking about climate crisis and not climate change. So, we also owe science, from agronomic science, to get the new ones...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u13	...five years. As much as I remember myself. It's not a climate change in Tyrnavo.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u14	...data from both climate and definitions from agriculture science and proceed to an upgrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u15	Anti-grass protection is needed, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u16	Separate the very extreme weather phenomena, enter a limit, enter a line - you are right in it - to determine what ELGA can cover and what place the state can come with the state's financial aid and other financial instruments that it has, such as the aid that was passed in August by our government, be able to help so that it can be organised much better and there is no blurred point. Everyone will know that there are the tools that are next to him to support him. I'm going to say something I don't think you're going to agree with me. A part of the rural area, the farming area, is given for insurance in the private sector as well. This will help producers and farmers. What he wants to pay more and at the difficult time to have a return, to have this choice, to give this choice. In relation to crop costs, you referred to electricity and oil. I would like to remind you that it is our government which, in a number of measures, has, first of all, made tax relief measures. So we give room and more money to our producers. Secondly, because of the pandemic, a large amount of money has been spent both on repayable advances and on direct payments to producers. The ELGA has given too much money. That's the third measure. Also, in relation to oil, with the recent decision, 50m euros will be given to two hundred thousand producers with the reduction...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u17	Next time you said a hundred seventy. Now they're two hundred thousand?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u18	Let the Minister finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u19	We put a criterion and an incentive. We are in favour of cooperation. We are in favour of the organization of producer groups, associations, cooperatives. Because when there are more and they are together and united, we can reduce the cost.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u20	I mean, you're punishing them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u21	The motive is to move on to collaboration...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u22	Minister, have you put oil on a tractor? Do you have an orgasm? Are you kidding me now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u23	Both of you, together, don't sound.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u24	Two hundred thousand producers will benefit. To give a very brief answer in relation to the current. The holders of an agricultural invoice shall be exempt from the charges for using the IPTO transmission system and the distribution network. It is a joint decision by the Environment and Energy Ministers and the Finance Minister and it defines the beneficiary consumers who can join this measure. We have, in other words, a measure which, with a special account set up by the Energy Transfer and Administrator, is the RESIP, allows farmers to join and from there to have a lower price than their current. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. We move on to the second with number 239/30-11-2021, a timely question from the first cycle of the MP of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Psychoyou to the Minister of the Interior on the subject: "The problem, class-by-class and full of exclusion, the government's policy on citizenship in the process of naturalisation". Mr. Psychoyte, good morning. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. Good morning to you too. Minister, we are also discussing a bill that has provisions relating to citizenship by means of naturalisation. This process is the culmination of an integrated immigration and integration policy. The naturalisation process must be rapid, fair and accessible to all and everyone who wants it. However, the minimum annual income of EUR 8 000 over the previous three, five or seven years, which is set in your 2020 law, depending on the category of everyone, but also on the condition of stable work, is unfair and classic criteria that mobilise this process and make it a luxury. In fact, it is unclear whether this income relates to the family or the person who files the application. In view of almost twelve years of crisis, the state of the economy, the high rates of unemployment and black work, a right for a few is currently becoming citizenship, excluding around 90% of the candidates. They are income criteria which not even 50% of the Greeks are currently working for these years. Of course, there are many retrospectives which also have issues of unconstitutionality. You're trying to heal some with the bill you're bringing, but the essence remains. Because with other data the application was lodged and with other data it was assessed. The process with closed-ended questions must respond to issues relating to the daily lives and lifelong links of the candidates with the country and not include issues that are difficult even for many Greeks. In fact, we have also had a lot of embarrassing and challenging questions in the recent examination process, while in the interview you are trying to reduce now, you are giving the right to open a loophole to the call of an applicant to identify the criteria. So because the above compose a clearly unjust, for us, and derogatory, not even strict in your own logic, a framework for the acquisition of citizenship for people living with their families and working for decades in the country, you ask whether these unfair and out-of-realistic restrictions, such as the existing income criterion and the condition of stable employment, not even related to the integration and participation of applicants for citizenship, will eventually be lifted in the country's social life. Thank you and I will come back to my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, Mr. Psychoyote. The Minister of Interior, Mr. Makis Voridis, will answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u28	Good morning, Mr. President. Thank you very much. Mr Colleague, you are telling me that our policy on citizenship is a classic bias. I would like to ask you directly if SYRIZA's view is that we should not have any real criteria to decide who to naturalise or not. As you know, the process of naturalisation has - let me say - two phases, one phase typical - criteria of the admissibility of the application for naturalisation in which we find what we see? That he is a minor, that he has not committed criminal offences and that he has legally remained a certain period of time in Greece. This is a stage in the admissibility of an application, to say it, in order to submit an application. So I want directly to ask you this. Is the SYRIZA's view that the second phase should or should not exist, which is to determine the essential conditions for naturalization? To reach agreement, naturalisation is a process in which there is a strong link between the individual and the state. That is the concept of the citizen, the existence of a strong link. And I'm going to what we've set up, what's set up right now. Of course I would like to hear you because reading your question here, I see this. You say that it is a classic minimum annual income, and you are still telling me that there must be a single paradox, the height of which must be determined on the basis of realistic criteria. I don't understand! Are you in favour of the fact that the issue of naturalisation will only be judged by the height of the offense? So we're gonna judge whether anyone is economically integrated according to their ability to pay a paradox? You have a negative attitude to me, and that is therefore not your position. But if we then come to the law, what does the law say about the substance? He says the following. The foreigner must know the Greek language. I imagine you agree that someone who will be naturalized cannot be aware of the Greek language. To know, he says, adequately the Greek history and geography, the Greek culture and the habits of the Greek people, as well as the way in which the institutions of the country's culture operate. I want to hear your opinion. Do we have to figure that out or not? And I mean what the law says. Thirdly, it has the capacity to actively participate in the country's political life, respecting the fundamental principles that govern it. I'll come back to this. Fourthly, it should be well integrated into the country's economic and social life, making it a constant centre of its living activities. These are the four essential conditions to be met for naturalisation. That's the law. As for the first, language learning, it has been standardized and there are tests. I suppose you have no objection to that. As regards the second, there is the examination procedure. The previous arrangement, what did it say? He said to see the foreigner's accession to the country and he was about to stop there, leaving extensive areas of crisis in the interview. What'd that lead us to? I will not say the spectacular delays over your days. Say that this is administrative, bureaucratic or something. I'll say the following. The judgement of the Committees on naturalization on this issue, i.e. the assessment of accession, has led to the following results. Other Committees on naturalisation accept 10% of applications, other Committees on naturalisation to accept 95% of applications. Difference is not normal. Evidently, they were subjected there and embroiled with subjective judgments. Someone with a restraining approach cut them off, someone with a more comfortable and relaxed approach let them pass. What did we come here to do? We objected to the process. This is confirmed by the exams. It's twice that they've run tests. And, as far as your criticisms are concerned, we must note - and this is the position of the question - that is, the question's position with questions relating to everyday life and not that it involves matters which are difficult. Listen, I'll ask you back here. Are we going to ask him, as the law says, about Greek history and geography? Do I need to? Take a seat on this. I say it's necessary. For Greek culture? A man wants to be naturalized by a Greek, does he have to know evidence of Greek culture? I say I have to. For our habits, habits and customs to know or not to know the person who asks to be a Greek citizen? I say yes. How do we operate the institutions of the democratic culture that we have in the country, key elements of the functioning of our country to know them or not to know them? I say yes. Because we are going to the debate on convenience or difficulty, I tell you that I am not dealing with it at all. I'd suggest you do the same. Do you know why? If I'm not cheating, you're not an educator, and I'm not our present colleague, Mr. Zachariadis, and he's not. What about convenience and difficulty? I, too, propose that we leave this to a committee of specialist teachers who are the ones on the subject. I swear to you, I've never looked at the contents of the matter. Do you know why? So you don't tell me that I made it hard for them not to pass, so I wouldn't tell you that you made it easy for them to pass. Let's get out of this conversation. We're leaving it to people. People are teachers, they're academics, they're doing this job, they're putting issues and the conversation's over. Because otherwise we'll stay in a preconceived field. I will tell you, 'You want to make them all Greek'. You will tell me, 'You do not want to do anyone'. Neutralize this process, dismantle it, and let people put matters in perspective, read. The issues are well known from the outset and the solutions to the issues are well known and they are available on the Internet. To go read and pass their exams. And then we'll finish the second criterion. Let's go to the third criterion. To be able to participate actively and effectively in the country's political life while respecting the fundamental principles governing it. And the fourth, to have been smoothly integrated into the country's economic and social life by making it a continuous centre of its life activities. The third criterion, as you know, is abolished if the House accepts our proposal in the draft law that we are debating in committee. May I say why do I want to abolish it? Because I believe that this, that is to say, whether one has the ability to actively and effectively participate in the political life of the country, is a future event which cannot be judged on the substance. So what does it mean now if someone has the ability? We've examined whether he knows the function of the civil society. If he gets the certificate, he's supposed to know the function of the regime. So there I think there is indeed a flaw that can again allow crises to be liberated in the interview, which should not be embroidered. I therefore think that, in this way, we are removing this condition, we are further objectively targeting the process. And we're going to fourth. I also wanted to ask you: should we consider whether there is a smooth integration into the economic and social life of the country? Yes or no? If you agree that we need to consider this, then the law has enabled the Minister to define the criteria and objective them with which we consider this. I have set as a criterion for the smooth integration of economics - and you say that it is a classic - the minimum income of the wage paid with the minimum wage, with the minimum wage. Where do you want me to take it? Unless you don't want any criteria. I'm stopping here. I'll listen to your counterpart and come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u29	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Psychogios has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in many of the things you have said, you are pressing open doors now and you know that in a government which has come up with a process that has been closed for the second generation to open it, and to give thousands of children invisiblely the right to citizenship and to be within social life with rights and obligations. Also, the closed-ended questions we had legislated, as you know, and it was for the reasons you said, to make the system objective. But if we know, for example, what the name of the Rio-Antiri bridge is, do you know that? You're probably aware of it. Or, for example, what a gift the worker will make to his employer at Christmas or who were the first members of Metaxas youth. That is what you can see, and I agree that a committee should come in and see them, but not neutral. To base them on what you said correctly - and they apply - on the basic knowledge of everyday life, institutional function, habits, etc. which, of course, we do not want to assimilate people. They need to know where they are and what is going on, but it will obviously not be the only criterion for a special custom in a region, which only the residents should know, for example, I say now. So, in the basics he says, they were issues that we had legislated on, but without putting the income-tax criterion on, and without doing any interventions that were unfair too. You mentioned the paradox and I would like to refer to it. There was a family in the recent process, which was three members who applied for, father mother and child EUR 2.100, 700 euros each. That is what we say it is unfair and irrational and must stop. Of course, if it is to be dissuasive after all, because this whole process and the 90% income criteria and the infringement procedure which are very expensive and the bank's process of issues that are, I repeat, very difficult for these reasons, not for itself, which we did and we wanted to do, is dissuasive. Ask the addresses, because we are talking with the addresses, we are talking to the actors in the field, we are talking to the applicants themselves and their communities, how many new applications for naturalisation have been made after the law that you made in 2020. Also, we must politically and ideologically - here we are opposed - gradually change the process by blood law in soil law, as is done in most European states. You asked me what we're asking. France, Germany, Italy and Spain from five to ten years of residence permits in the country as a standard criterion, and from there on, basic conditions, which are language learning, are the living ties with the country, which are proved to be very specific, the fulfilment of tax and insurance obligations. Obviously. But this means that they will show their statements, show their obligations, show their assurances that they are consistent. There will not be a criterion which will exclude thousands of people, who have been in the country for decades, on black labour many of them - and we know it very well - and we will come here to say that we have put the minimum wage. He doesn't even catch 50% of the Greeks, I repeat. Of course, all you achieve with it - and it is well known - is actually to fondle a superconservative and xenophobic audience for micro-political purposes, for consumption. You are on the sidelines and you make invisible people who are in the country very important to have rights and obligations. You remove the country from Europe, such as the SYRIZA government with many rights bills, has brought very close to more modern perceptions. And you want, now, Antetokubo, to get citizenship. You want people who have to get there, to have the conquered right to citizenship, as happened in the government of Samaras who had to give citizenship to Antetokubo and hundreds of thousands of others had closed doors and circuits prospering around the process. Because we know what's going on. We are attendants in Jerusalem years, people of the field, lawyers, we know and know both the good and the bad. I shall therefore close, Mr President, and thank you for the tolerance, by asking again what serves to serve such a policy of exclusion and marginalisation of thousands of people, as a fair system of citizenship would be important, because in addition to guaranteeing the right - which also has obligations, of course, we also want - it would work for the benefit of society, social cohesion and the economy. Because we would be won and won by it. That is the way it happened in Europe. It was this Europe that was brought to prosperity, through inclusion, integration, through processes which respected the cultural diversity of the other and put it in the logic of the rule of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u32	I think that in your dentistry you abandoned the positive speech and adopted more, let me say, ideologically. That is very gratifying, because we are cleaning up the debate a little bit, we are clarifying it. What do you think? There is a right to citizenship. Let's get this straight. No, there isn't. No, there isn't! It is not a human right to process naturalisation. It is a sovereign state, and that is why it is not controlled at the level of possible human rights violations. The States have the right to decide on their own, in their criteria, who will make citizens and who will not. So there is no such right, at least in the legal sense of the term. I guess you're using it in the moral sense of the term. So we go back and go into an ideological field, not legal. I am making it clear to be clear in this debate. So you say that at a level of morality one should pursue policies with which it will be naturalised - listen to what you say, you say a second - because in this way accession becomes more effective. Am I right to understand your argument? That's right. You make a second mistake, big. Use the naturalization process to achieve integration. The accession process is likely to lead to naturalisation. Don't reverse them. It's not an accession mechanism. The process of naturalisation is not an integration mechanism. It is a result of the integration of naturalization.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u33	And two-way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u34	We're coming back, Mr. Comrade. This debate we are now having here, I consider it very important to clarify the attitudes and positions of each of us. For between, I say again, 'we will do them all' and 'we will not do anyone', in my view, between these two extreme positions, there is our position. Our position has no quantifications, it has no "I will do so" and so, "I have succeeded or failed, depending on how many I will do". Our position has criteria, procedure, rules of rational approach, to see what? The fact that this strong link between the applicant and, therefore, an act of recognition will ultimately be the granting of the naturalisation. In a process that we are describing, we will have seen its integration, we will have seen the existence of the strong link and we will come to say yes, all this is happening and therefore it is natural. But not the backwards. We won't say, yes, he's not a part of it, but to incorporate him, to physicalize him. Not like that, as you imply. I'm coming back to our conversation and my ministerial decision. Criteria for economics. If you agree that we need to see its economic integration, I want you to tell me whether you have an opinion on the criteria. I said there should be the minimum wage. What are you saying? He hasn't been reported and he's on black paper. So the criterion is class-specific. I have a second criterion in my ministerial decision, tax information and compliance and insurance information and compliance. You tell me that someone has real income, and I must say congratulations to him and naturalize him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u35	We're not saying that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u36	Allow me, I never want to misinterpret you, ever. I always want to answer and give you what you say. Your argument against my ministerial decision, which says it must be seen that at least it has the minimum wage, is that they don't have it because they work black. Right? Because if they don't work black, then at least they'll have the lowest. One of the two. So if they work black, I do not know whether or not they are responsible, but I see that they have an income that they do not say so. So we have a breach of tax legislation. You want us to reward this. And now I come to the last thing we do with the provisions that we are saying: these criteria for economic and social integration have been objectively defined by my ministerial decision, how will one prove one's income? We won't ask him: 'Do you have an income?' And he will say, "Yes, I do." It'll be objective, bring us his tax statement. I imagine that's what you agree with. I won't ask him, "Are you taxly informed?" And he will tell me: "Yes, I am", but he will bring me the tax information. I won't ask him, "You're insurgent" and he says, "Yes, I am," but he'll bring me insurance information. This is an observation and a criticism Mr Zachariadis made in a statement. He says: "Vorides will cut them off, trouble coming to the interview." I thought about it a little bit as Mr Zachariadis says, because Mr Zachariadis is always a source of inspiration. And I'm saying, it's not wrong. Perhaps we should put a stage before us if we see that, since the presentation of the documents, there is no evidence needed to go ahead with an interview, then there is a first stage of crisis so that it is not really troubled. And since it does not have the prerequisites, we should go to rejection of the request and the interview should not follow because it did not make any sense. This will not speed up the interview procedure for others. We therefore put a first stage in these arrangements so that when we see that economic and social integration criteria are not presented or justified, then we are given the opportunity, in essence, to reject and examine the others by speeding up the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u37	He's leaving a little window...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u38	In addition, social inclusion in many can be seen on objective grounds. Social inclusion criterion: Has he concluded a marriage with nationality? It's a criterion. Social inclusion criterion: He has actions in associations, volunteers, in the organization of "Citizens' Society", he does something, etc.Huh? This is a social inclusion criterion. Social inclusion criterion: Does he have a participation in political parties? It is a criterion of participation in political life. So all this, in many cases, too, on objective terms, can be determined, in other words, by documents, because it could bear a certificate from its club or be part of a future action. So this can be done. So we have objectively largely targeted the process so that the interview is limited to specific things. We have also published the guide to interview to further deal with this process and I would like to say that we are doing all this together with the National Transparency Authority and the Citizens' Counsel. The latest report by the Citizens' Counsellor, which I will give for publicity, was there - because you say a SYRIZA delegation has actually gone and that is a good thing, and we welcome it and hope to continue it - to establish and monitor the examination procedure. I don't know what you've seen, I'll tell you what the attorney found out. He found an exemplary procedure. I'll tell you what the National Transparency Authority found. I am not saying that there are no comments, there are always, and there were also in the previous report by the Co-rapporteur. There are improvements to this, and we will improve further. You will see here that the procedure for their transfer, integrity, control, non-existence, the way in which they are examined has been done in an integer and objective manner, without the problems, Mr Colleagues, which were at an earlier stage of the procedures and on your own government. I am not talking here about political issues, about the involvement of political people. I am speaking to you about the lack of integrity of the procedure, which had been established in the past. Now that does not exist and I think that we will obviously keep our ideological differences, but at the same time you should recognise the important, huge steps that have been taken in a system of integer, which will also see the real existence of a link between the foreigner and the applicant, naturalisation, but also the existence of it, in an objective, fair and transparent way. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u39	Thank you very much, Minister. Because the next question is interesting, Minister, and it also concerns civil servants, to reduce some time, I would ask you a lot. We move to the third with No 264/6-12-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Government games with the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work of civil servants". You have two minutes, Mr. Zachariadis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I don't think we need the fifteen minutes. Things are very simple. You can answer me too quickly. Before, however, I come to the question, I would like to thank you for being here again today. You are one of the few, perhaps the only one, who always responds to parliamentary scrutiny. In fact, you answer Members' questions, even if many times you do not give answers! We must recognise this because this government seems to be on the way from Parliament, because it cannot stand and can't answer questions, not just from the Anti-Population Officer but from parliamentary control as a whole. So on our point. What about the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work of civil servants? Why has the joint ministerial decision not yet been adopted, especially now that we are in a period of COVID and an energy crisis? What about the officials in the cleanliness of the municipalities, whom is the issue of vital importance? What about the school cleaners, as the Athens School Cleaners Association, a member of the Federation of Private Officials of Greece, denounces? It's been in your hands since August 31, 2021. We have December 12th. You're hiding it? Haven't you read it? You don't want to say it outside? Are you afraid? What's going on? Are you going to cut the allowance? Are you going to keep it? Are you going to lower it? We are talking about a very difficult period, Mr President, when the world is in poverty, in crisis. You've been delaying putting some money in the last period. Answer this poor world that fights, what you think to do and why you are stalling. Is that effective governance? Is that the final state? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. The question will be answered by the Minister for the Interior, Mr Mavroudis Voridis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes and I would remind you that you have a committee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Zachariadis is right, the answer and the debate are not long. I should therefore like to inform you, on the basis of the provisions of Article 18 of Law No4354/2015, that a committee was indeed set up to consider the issue of unhealthy work. She had to hand over her finding by 30-5-2018, on your days. The committee did not do that, Mr Zachariadis, and there was the need for an extension which was finally given up to 31-11-2021. Indeed, this committee delivered its findings, part of the finding - I do not know if I have received the whole - and I have received it. I say 'part', because what I have read is, above all, what you refer to, in the criteria, as laid down by the law - because this is actually covered by the conclusion - to identify specific criteria relating to workers' exposure to serious risk of harm to their health, to determine the methodology, to how the categories are calculated, to be subject to specialisations. And, indeed, these have been made in this conclusion. Let me inform you that the financial finding includes two scenarios and compares them to the existing regime. Financially it is about neutral, that is, if I remember correctly, a differentiation of the amount of EUR 1 million. In one case, in one scenario there is a budget reduction of EUR 1 million, in the other case there is a budgetary increase of EUR 1 million. So budgetaryly it is, let me say, almost neutral. The scenarios are presented and therefore our debate is not a financial one, it is a structural one. What is structural debate? Obviously the committee has worked to find a rational and rational criteria and coherent criteria for the benefit of heavy and unhealthy people. From this moment on, that is to say, the tradition of the conclusion, there is a provision in the law, because its nature is consultative, to adopt a common ministerial decision. And there I am just telling you, Mr Zachariadis, that when you read - because you are very diligent - in the texts that a joint ministerial decision takes precedence over a ministry - here the joint ministerial decision to be adopted is that of the Finance Ministers, the Administrative Reconstruction, Labour, Social Security, Social Solidarity and Health - when you see in the face of the Treasury, the prompt Ministry is the Treasury. The first Ministry in a row is therefore the speedy one for the adoption of the decision. It's not me. It's the finance. What can we do? Therefore, the Ministry of Finance is studying - obviously - the conclusion in order to prepare the adoption of this joint ministerial decision. To conclude, however, my answer and I may not have to go back to it, I will say that there is no cause for concern for the workers, because I have heard such a thing. Why am I saying there's nothing to worry about? Because until the adoption of this Decision, as laid down in Article 18(12) of L.4354/2015 of the Ministerial Decision, the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy work continues to be paid to the beneficiaries themselves at the same level and under the same conditions and conditions. Therefore, until this decision is adopted, the allowance is normally paid and no cause for concern is present. So, perhaps, more on how he thinks about the ministerial decision can tell you the Ministry of Finance and you might, if you were interested, come back with a question to the Ministry of Finance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Zachariadis, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Voridis, I really appreciate what you're doing, because you come and throw the ball on the platform. We spend 15 minutes in parliamentary control, to tell me 'It is not me, it is Mr Skakakis'. Yes, sir! It's all in this country that Mr. Skylakakis is to blame. I am pleased, however, because you said something else, which matters - and I keep it, and I will ask Mr. Psulakakis - that there is no substantial budgetary difference and that is very important. I would therefore like to ask you, if you know - so you are not the expedited one, but you are the political leader for these areas I asked - when about a government is planning, which is finally, which is effective, which is fast, to issue a CSM. As far as I know, you also signed electronic signatures. Within half an hour, all of you enter forty minutes, press a button and sign. The core of the question is what will happen with these people, but if there is a strategic cutback in the public sector. Because you know that, throughout Europe, a great debate has begun on the next day for public finances, and we are also calling on your Ministry and Mr. Pylacakis and the Greek Government, from now on, to open negotiations and discussions on a number of issues the next day. Given the new political situation in the German Ministry of Finance and given the memory we have of what has happened with a liberal at the German Ministry of Finance, which is politically equivalent to Mr. Psulakakis, we need to take measures and say clear things now. Let us say clear things both in the Greek Parliament and in ECOFIN and in the Eurogroup and at the summit. Mr Voridis, it is necessary that the civil servants in the country, the private employees in the country - I put it second, because it is not our responsibility, I could put them in reverse - ensure that the next day they have the same and the same and the highest wages, the same and the same opportunities for purchasing power. This is not clear from your own government. It is clear that you do not want any change - and good for you for that - as is clear and the fact that you are giving an indefinite extension until the OSH is issued under the existing regime. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] However, since you have made reference - and I am closing with this, Mr President - to the issue of May 2018, I would like to remind you, in order to take this into account, and to negotiate with the institutions and discussions in the European institutions, that an incision has taken place in the country since 31-8-2018. The country has come out of the memoranda, borrowed at low interest rates, finances its needs, has a budget pillow. Take advantage of it, not to tell Parliament and the channels, but to protect the income of public and private employees. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, Mr Zachariadis. Here, Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, the truth is that there has been an incision in the country, in '18-19, when the government's change took place, which has indeed resulted in all the benefits you have described. In other words, it has indeed had a significant and spectacular improvement in the economy our country is aware of on the islands of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and not, of course, on the days of the previous government. However, since you have raised the matter of time, I will tell you that there is a deadline provided for in the law and that the relevant joint ministerial decision is adopted within two months of the conclusion. The conclusion is dated 31 November. As I said, in mid-November, the administrative deadline has not even expired. And, as you know, these administrative deadlines are indicative, not exclusive. I shall therefore say that they are one direction in which the administration has to move, not to say that the expiry of a period of time gives rise to a specific legal issue, but that has not passed either. I am therefore sure that the Ministry of Finance is working on this matter and will move us to the relevant proposal for a joint ministerial decision, so that, obviously, we can all sit and think about it. However, I repeat, the crucial and important thing at this stage is that there is no cause for concern for the workers. Employees up to the time when this joint ministerial decision will be adopted continue to receive their allowance, as they have so far received it. From there on, the ministerial decision I am sure you will have the opportunity to discuss it - probably to discuss it together - certainly, if you wish, with the Ministry of Finance. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. The following topical questions will not be discussed after consultation: The first under number 238/30-11-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Sector of New Democracy Georgios Koumoutsakos to the Minister of Civil Protection on the subject: "Agreements for minors - Extended Juvenile Crime in and Out of School". The fourth under number 252-12-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Expansion of the settlement boundaries of the village of Great Papigo, in Zagori, Epirus". The first, with number 242-12-2021, topical question by MP I' Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzi, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Direct action to protect public health and prevent the dispersion of COVID -19 from complying with the rules on social distance from incompetent police officers". The fourth question under number 250/6-12-2021 is the second question of the Piraeus II of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamantos Manolakos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Standards in the process of adopting a Ministerial Decision adopting a management plan for the operation of the purse fishing gear, dragged by the vessel". We have and then, because they are more than they will be discussed. The third will now be discussed under No 246/3-12-2021, a top-level question for the first cycle of MP of the Greek Communist Party Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The free rapid tests for students and teachers in areas that do not exist in public structures or workshops of EGEI". Mr. Delia, good morning. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u48	Good morning, Mr. President. We all see where they have arrived, Minister, the COVID cases all over the country. We're watching it every day. Above all, the image is the same in schools, in pupils and teachers. Regardless of the variations in the overall number of cases, almost 25% of the daily cases in the last two months relate to students. It is an indicative and extremely serious element of the situation. Of course, this does not surprise us, as the schools are actually acting as an outbreak of virus transmission, due, of course, to this stubborn, almost two years ago, refusal by the government to take substantial health protection measures in schools. On the basis of the EGE directives - those in force - students who are close contacts with a confirmed COVID incident should undergo two diagnostic laboratory tests - the known rapid tests - within seven days. This is where the problem is identified, Mr Minister. Why, there are several areas in our country, such as Nydri in Lefkada, Corfu, north and south, but also other areas where there are no public structures, there are no EGE workshops carrying out such diagnostic checks and so the families of the students what to do? They are charged with the cost of carrying out some private workshops and pay the week from 100 to 150 euros for these tests of their children. That's the point. We ask you what your Government, your Ministry, as a whole, will do, so that there will be permanent steps of EGE in every municipality and in every centre in the region to cover, that is, the whole country, really be covered by such workshops so that people can address the tests. To carry out - because this is the essential solution to the issue - periodically, mass-free tests in all schools in a series, of course, of course, by the EGE itself, for the vaccinated, but also for the invaders. And, of course, we will not stop talking about those measures, the essential measures we have said, the dilution of the students, the traceability, the epidemiological surveillance. And one last thing we have in the questions we are addressing is that we also have a special leave, which I think is needed by those teachers who belong to what we call'sensitive groups' and at risk every day. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Delis. The State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. MacRey. Mrs. Macrie, good morning. You have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, you have a praise for our ministry, which is answering the questions weekly, you have not. Mr. Zachariadis praised Mr. Vorides. You, where are you our weekly interlocutor and your party? I'm kidding. Well, to the point. The design of our Ministry, Mr. Colleague, for the management of the health crisis and for the safe operation of educational structures for the school year 2021 - 2022 is based on the recommendations of the National Committee for the Protection of Public Health. I told you last week when I was answering your question, you always have many questions, which relate to the competence of other ministries. Last week it was on economics, now on health. But we always try to give answers, without, of course, entering the fields of other colleagues. In order for the school year to be completed in safety conditions, for both the school and the educational community, a ministerial decision was adopted on 9 September 2021, then amended on 26 October 2021 by a joint ministerial decision and the provisions specifying the rules for the operation of school units in terms of hygiene, describing the general preventive and precautionary measures for the new school year, the procedures for carrying out the self-diagnostic control of pupils and pupils and others, which are known and already an estate of the educational community and implement them thoroughly. In the past two weeks there has been a gradual reduction in the incidences of pupils. Last week, from 26 November to 3 December, ten thousand six hundred and seventy-three coronary cases were recorded in children from zero to seventeen years of age, less than 1% of the disciple’s population, and were reduced from eleven thousand to fifty-one who were and registered last week. I would also like to say that most of the eight out of ten cases of coronary aggression are due to the detection of tests carried out in educational communities. And that's what matters. Also, there is an epidemiological survey of the EGE, I think I have answered this question to you, which shows that 30% of the pupils' cases are not due to school activity, but to other factors. The excellent list of measures combined with increased self-diagnostic and laboratory tests - there are cases of cases where close contacts make daily, for seven days free tests - allow us and identify in time asymptomatic agents and significantly limit dispersion. An important role in this is the vaccination of students aged 12 and over. In the twelve to fourteen-year age group they have been vaccinated with at least one dose or have a scheduled one hundred and ten thousand children, which is 33%. In the 15 to 17-year age group they have been vaccinated with at least one dose or have a scheduled appointment of sixty-two thousand, two hundred and fifty-three children, which is almost 50%. Today the platform was opened and the parents were able to make an appointment to vaccinate their children, five to eleven years old. These vaccinations will be carried out in primary care structures, hospitals, and more vaccination centres will gradually be added, as will health centres. Our Ministry has scheduled next Tuesday with Mrs Theodoridou and Mrs Papaevangelou a second online briefing - we had made it for other age groups - to answer questions from parents who have - and rightly so - concerns and interesting questions. The vaccination of children is different from the vaccination of adults. There is also a number of procedural issues, because the presence of the parent or guardian is required, and this also delineates the functioning of specific vaccination centres. In close cooperation with the Ministry of Health and the experts we are considering all measures that can strengthen the public and individual health of the members of the educational community. I would like to point out once again the high rates of vaccination among teachers, to whom there is no requirement and who have responded with professionalism and with due decency to this obligation. In public schools 85.13% of secondary education and 83.87% of primary school teachers have been vaccinated. In private education, rates are higher, they are 93.77% in secondary education, 89.45% in primary school. In universities, the proportion of graduated teachers is more than 94%. It is therefore clear from this that a high vaccination coverage has been achieved, which is even greater if we sum up the hospitals. So, once again, we commend the educational community for these measures and the response. And we believe that the existing measures are sufficient, both for teachers and for civil servants, so in the current period of authorisation for special purposes to be granted to those belonging to increased risk groups for serious infection by COVID-19 is not foreseen. It is, however, a dynamic process, the pandemic and the measures of the state are evolving according to the data of each period. He's not being treated right now. We hope that it will not be necessary in the future. I shall reply to the other specific questions you raise about specific areas. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. We must, however, admit, Mr Delis, when it comes to the timeliness of the Ministry of Education, Mrs Makre here is permanent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u52	It's our ministry, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u53	That's what I said. That's what you represent. Here, Mr Delis, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u54	We have no problem commenting positively on the Minister's response to the answers, even in his presence here, in order to answer the current questions. Look, Minister, I do not think you have answered the main question that we asked you about the Lefkada, for Corfu, for these regions. You have invoked the multiplicity of the subject, and it is indeed about the Ministry of Health, so it is, however, by its nature, not something that we are responsible for. In any case, as we have said before, the government's responsibility for managing these issues is comprehensive, and we do not think it is so difficult to draw up a plan so that all the necessary steps can be taken to cover all people throughout the country where they live by the free tests that they do not pay a lot of money to the various private centres. You said about phasing out cases on students. We do not, of course, intend to disagree or question it. It is likely that it is following the general reduction that exists from what we are hearing. And you said that in 30% of students' cases, the cause is not school. The issue is not what the cause is, the issue is that 30% goes to schools and objectively operate as virus transponders regardless of where they are stuck. The point is that in schools where a young population gathers, it then transfers the virus to its homes. You're talking about vaccinating children, Minister, that the platform is starting today. Indeed. However, we have to ask ourselves whether the necessary vaccine is necessary, it is imperative that everyone should, if that is enough on their own to deal with the pandemic. I think that the answer itself gives life with the cases of both the vaccinated and the hospitals who have previously been vaccinated. The vaccine is therefore good, it is useful, it is necessary, but it is not enough. Other measures must be taken, Minister, so that people can really be protected from the movement of the virus. In schools, these measures have been said too many times. First of all, it's the dissolution of the students. It is denied by the Ministry for obvious economic reasons, because this would, of course, require even more teachers. They'll have to dilute the departments, there'll have to be sections of up to fifteen students. On several occasions it's already such a thing. There are rooms, indeed they could exist, hire even more cleaners and cleaners to ensure the continuous cleansing of the school unit where they are hundreds of children. At the same time, as I have said in my prototype, that epidemiological check, of course, and the responsibilities that EGE should have, a state agency, which will have a periodic presence in schools, will produce all these results, will also have a database to monitor how pandemic is progressing especially in this area, in the field of students. This is called ‘essential epidemiological surveillance’. And at the same time it'll make a very good tracking. I'm closing, Mr. President. Finally, this vaccination programme should really be supported by an information scientific programme which the government will have to design at some point. We can't give it to the windows, it's not an update of the windows. Every person who has concerns, who has fears, has hesitations to know that he will address a responsible scientific committee in his area, in a hospital where he will discuss a personified, as I said, basis on this issue. That's what has to be done. That is what the government should think to really deal with the pandemic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, too. Mrs. Macrie, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u56	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, I have said that the specific questions you raised in relation to specific areas will be answered in my second language. Maybe my mask and natural tachylas didn't allow that to be heard. Before answering these, I will make very brief comments. You said the reduction of cases follows the pandemic in the regions. Indeed, it is because we in our Ministry since the beginning of pandemic have said that schools and lifelong teaching do not lead to pandemic, instead of being followed by it and shown by the percentages. And depending on the area's vaccination coverage, there are similar cases. The transmission of 30% of school rooms is not referred to as an element of reassurance, but to how the school measures, the measures that exist in the school community, are attributed. Because apart from the vaccine - why did you say that - there are masks, distance keeping, individual cleanliness, cleanliness of school halls. That's all there is together. For the vaccine at five years, tell your parents that there are agony. That is why I told you about the campaign the information that our Ministry will make and the questions and answers that will be given by the two ladies who are important in the educational community. As far as the dilution of the departments is concerned, I've answered your question again. 40% will decrease transmission if the departments divide them into three and alternately operate the school communities. This has been recorded by the World Health Organisation. It's not something our ministry arbitraryly says. I'm just going to make an observation about information on the windows. It is something that the state obviously cannot interfere with.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u57	I didn't say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u58	There's an information campaign by the government. I will only refer to our Ministry. We have made similar informational online meetings, which are posted on the website and for other ages, as well as with visits by doctors. We've been working with the pediatricians. First the Prime Minister met, then our Ministry, to inform the parents, to inform the teachers. We're doing everything politically and humanly possible for information. For the cases of the individual in the Ionian Islands region you invoke, I shall mention the following. It is true, Mr President, that in Nydri Lefkada there are no public structures to carry out laboratory diagnostic tests on unvaccinated pupils and that the unvaccinated pupils have so far been all pupils attending the 1st and 2nd kindergartens because vaccination has not been allowed so far. Also at the primary school of Nydrio. In cases where students are close contacts with a confirmed incident in the school unit and, as the existing provisions say, on rapid test, acknowledgment is given by the school management and students can carry out the rapid test at the Lefkada Hospital without cost. Perhaps - there is, of course, also your objection - there will also be parents who have been sent to pharmacies or private laboratories and at the same cost did the examinations. In addition, when an increase in COVID-19 cases was found in five confirmed cases during the first week of November, at the request of the directors of all school units, the Municipality of Lefkada sent Nydri a mobile unit to carry out an on-site rapid test. For the remote areas of northern and southern Corfu, the Regional Director of Primary and Secondary Education of the Ionian Islands on 23-11-21 sent a document to the Vice-State of Health of the Ionian Islands and to the ETH of Corfu, calling for the operation of health teams for rapid test on a daily basis in the areas of Moraitika and Lefkimi, to serve the students of southern Corfu, as well as in the areas of Saint Athanasio and Arahavia for the students of northern Corfu. As regards the cleaning up of school units, the status of staff of school units with cleaning staff was laid down in a new context by Law 4713. From the start of the school year 2020-2021 and thereafter, where the needs of the municipalities for the cleaning of school units are not covered by their regular staff, they may be covered by contracts for a fixed period of time equal to the teaching year. They shall be drawn up by the municipalities concerned after approval by its Committee under the number of 33/2006 Act of the Ministerial Council. For the costs of these contracts, a specific appropriation is entered in the budget of the Ministry of Interior and is allocated by decision of the Minister to the municipalities in proportion. For student transport there has been a joint ministerial decision since 2018, 5025/2018, concerning the transfer of pupils in public schools from the regions, in which by a joint ministerial decision of 9-9-2020 there are concrete measures to avoid the spread of the coronary, to safeguard the health of pupils and educational staff and provide for specific and detailed measures for the maintenance of distances, the controlled boarding and disembarkation of pupils, the disinfection of vehicles, the use of a protective mask, as well as the day-to-day examination of those in close contact. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, too. We move on to the first question under number 602/22-10-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by MP Boeotia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Panagios (Giota) Poulou to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct need to strengthen the Public Librarys throughout the country". Mrs. Pulu, good morning. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u60	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, we all probably all agree that public libraries are major focal points of culture, with a time-consuming contribution to local societies. We also agree that they are mediating consistently and effectively in the relationship between citizens and the book and digital sources of knowledge. The dissemination of reading, free access to knowledge and information, the encouragement of free exchange of ideas, the familiarization with new technologies, the promotion of lifelong learning, the cultivation of creativity of children, adolescents and adults, and the preservation and promotion of local cultural heritage, are some of the aspects of their multitude offering. However, we must recognise that the chronic problems faced by public libraries are many, both for their funding and for their support with permanent staff. The State-sponsored assistance does not correspond to their great social importance. However, in the last two and a half years of your administration, the public libraries of patients are heavy and remain administratively headless solely on your own responsibility. It is only in June 2021 that you managed to appoint the members of the General Council of Librarys and it is worth noting that for the first time he is absent from the composition of the worker's representative. And according to information received from all over the country, many public libraries have expired the term of office of administrative boards, but the relevant Ministry of Education, the Ministry of Education, that is, your Ministry, has not designated any new ones. For example, in the Public Central Library of Livadia, one of the best genuine public libraries in the country, which offers a huge and important work in the local society, is pending the appointment of a Loan Council by Genoa in 2021. Of course she's not the only one. In Lamia, Siatista, Eleftheroupoli, many libraries in the country have the same problem. In all these cases, therefore, due to the absence of a Board of Directors, it is not possible to carry out any simple administrative acts, such as the payment of the necessary operating costs, not even the bills of services of public utility networks, PPC, JHA, OTE, which will be transferred to the next year in 2022 as arrears. It is worth mentioning that the cleaning of the Library is paid by the pockets of the popular members of the Library of Library Friends, to protect the health of workers, visitors of adults and minors, because we are in a period of pandemic with special health protocols. Of course, no reason why development programmes should be planned and implemented, financed by the Public Investment Programme or other sources, so that the relevant funds can be reimbursed untappedly. I'm waiting for your answer, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr. Pulou. The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Makri, will answer you. Here you go, Mrs. Makri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, we will agree that it is important and time-consuming to offer public libraries to local communities, and I consider the following. The Board of Directors of each public library in accordance with Article 6 of Law 3149/2003 shall, as applicable, be five-member. It consists of individuals living in the headquarters or in the area covered by the public library and coming from the area of culture, education, self-government, church, science or production. The provisions of Chapter B of Law 4735/2020, which apply to the selection of Presidents and Vice-Presidents in the boards of public libraries, define the scope, conditions, impediments to participation, as well as the procedure for selecting administrations with mobilisation of formal educational qualifications, qualifications and structured interview, following publication of a relevant call of interest by the AACC. The term of office of a member shall be three years. In the event of the end of the term of office of members - because I think that is what you are interested in and asking, and that is why - it extends itself justly until the appointment of new members, that is to say, the public libraries do not remain headless. The General Council of Librarys is, in accordance with the relevant authorizing provisions, an advisory body of the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on matters relating to public libraries in the country. Its main task is to draw up and supervise single actions of public libraries. In addition, it shall deliver an opinion on the drafting or amendment of the Rules of Procedure of the Public Libraries, on matters of national and international cooperation and on matters relating in general to the functioning of the libraries of the country. It also sets out criteria for the qualification of libraries as central or historical libraries, giving opinions on such designations, at the recommendation of the relevant Libraries Council, representing the country when it comes to libraries such as local, national or international conferences, meetings and committees. It recommends the implementation of training or specialisation programmes for workers in the libraries of the country. He looks at issues relating to libraries referred to by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs. It shall recommend, coordinate and supervise on a case-by-case and subject to the subject-matter of specific unpaid working groups, whose members have the necessary know-how. It works with the department of the Ministry of Culture, which oversees the public libraries and the National Library of Greece, which primarily works out and proposes the necessary actions to implement the actions. There are also specific provisions which provide for the composition of the General Council of Librarys, of which, ladies and gentlemen, there are no employee representatives. The current General Council for Librarys was set up on 27 May 2021 by a decision of the Minister. In particular, I will answer the second question, the other questions you have put. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mrs. Macrie. Here, Mrs Pulou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you don't answer my questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u65	I didn't complete the answer, I told you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u66	...but if I had the ability to answer a full answer of yours, it would probably be better to answer me in total. Minister, you admit that you have had the phenomenal, excellent idea with Mr.4735/2020, who you have legislated, to make it so difficult for citizens to participate in public libraries, which are unprofitable, is volunteering, so that the whole composition of these advisory councils is made through the AACC, with a call from the AACC and, of course, have the obligation to make a statement where you were. So they should bear the expenses of the statement each in their pockets. We are all aware that participation in these public libraries, with personalities of space and local figures, has so far been purely voluntary and unhelpful, there has been no cost. As for what you said about the self-evident extension, I will tell you that it is not happening - and you know it - but you also know that all the directors of these libraries have been contacted with your Ministry on several occasions. Why? Because it is not only if it is possible to maintain the prolongation of a committee of inquiry. Meanwhile and under the law now and under the conditions of Law 4735/20 many have resigned and left. So they don't work. These merchandise councils are depleted. And the serious thing I told you and you did not answer is that, since we recognise the role of these libraries in local communities, you did not answer what you are thinking about, how you will solve it, and why you do not legislate and do not ultimately exclude libraries, as has been excluded - I do not now remember the article of the law - for example the various research institutes by Law 4735/20. Legislative!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mrs. Pulou. The Minister has the floor for three minutes for her dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. I note, Madam President, that the objective procedures of the AACC and the transparency of people who hold such positions are contrary to you. I'm recording it. With regard to the specific questions you have raised and to which I have said that I will respond to my second-guess, because that is Parliament's practice too. It does not allow the Minister in question, the State Secretary, to answer only with his prototype, it also gives the second. With the aim of achieving and ensuring the proper functioning of public libraries, our Ministry is making every effort to meet the needs of staff with permanent appointments and transfers. I give you in particular the Act of Ministerial Council 33/2006. In its decision adopted on 16 July 2020, it approved the completion of nineteen vacant posts of permanent staff of various branches in public libraries and will soon conclude the procedures for issuing these posts by the AACC. I'm re-registering your opposition. We are, however, following this process. Through the single mobility system, they have joined the public libraries in a series of decisions of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs forty-two officials in various sectors. Within the framework of the second mobility cycle 2021 following evaluation by the General Mobility Committee, the completion by transfer of seventeen empty organic staff posts to public libraries was approved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u69	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u70	I'm listening and I'm not interrupting. Listen to me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u71	Don't interrupt it. She's an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u72	If anything's not covered, here we are Mrs. Pulu. You can come back if something you think doesn't fully cover you, but it's not right to interrupt me. I answer the way it should be. I'm covering all your questions. Within the framework of the annual staff recruitment planning for the year 2022, and taking into account the needs of operators and financial commitments, a request was made by our Ministry for the approval of nineteen empty organic staff posts of different sectors in the public libraries. The Committee of Act 33/2006 of the Ministerial Council under No 50/4-11-2021 approved the completion of ten permanent posts. In order to finance public libraries, on May 24, 2021, the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Mr.Kerameos, adopted a decision setting the amount of the regular grant of the National Library of Greece and the public libraries from our Ministry's regular budget to EUR 5.296.950. We're talking about the financial year 2021. Finally, our Ministry's sectoral development programme of 2021-2025 on Axis 5 extroverts and on priority for infrastructure and actions of modern civilisation have been set at EUR 31 million for actions in public libraries as well. Projects have already been included in the national part of the Ministry of Public Investment to cover the work of public libraries and to modernise structures. These projects concern both the care of all forms of evidence and the provision of necessary equipment in general services for the upgrading of their infrastructures and aim, as a matter of course, at strengthening the educational, educational, cultural and informative purpose of libraries. Thank you, my colleague. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u73	Thank you, too. Have a good day at both. Ladies and gentlemen, the following questions will not be discussed: The second question under number 548/21-10-2021 of the circle of petitions - questions by MP Heraklion of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charalambos (Hare) Mamoulaki to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Will tolls be imposed at all thirty-two kilometers of the BOK in front of the city of Heraklion?" The third question under number 728/29-10-2021 is the question of the circle of petitions by MP II Thessaloniki of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "In a dead end, the construction services of the country, engineers and citizens." The fourth question with number 660-25-10-2021 question of the circle of petitions by MP Florinas of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "Problem regarding the government's planning for special and local urban planning plans". Finally, the fifth question by No. 254/6-12-2021 of the Second Cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Nikolaos Papanastassis, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "Sixteenth one-off financial support for the soldiers ahead of the celebrations and free and secure movement of them during holiday leave". Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-10-S1-commons.u74	With the consent of the House at 10.50 p.m., the sitting on Monday, December 13, 2021, at 9 p.m., on the subject of this House's work is closed: (a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
