ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 14-7-2021, the Minutes of the PRD meeting of Wednesday, 14 July 2021 were confirmed under the responsibility of the Bureau.]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent question issue of Friday 16 July 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question under number 932-7-2021 by MP B1' North Athens of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister of the Interior, on "Selections in the Public Sector". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by number 935/8-7-2021 of the Greek Parliamentary of Serres, Mr. Konstantinos Boubas, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Not at the closure of the only bank of the Municipality of Amphipolis". 3. The Question No 939/11-7-2021, by MP B2' Western Athens Department of Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Citizen Protection, on the subject: "Sixteen-year-old victim of kidnapping, rape and Macedonia experiences illegal treatment by the Greek Police and the Home Affairs Directorate". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Kavala of SYRIZA under number 934-7-2021 - Progressive Alliance Mr. Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Scandace's scandalous concession of protection for the convicted businessman Laurentiadis". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under number 940/12-7-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charula (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "The need to strengthen departments for domestic violence by Greek Police (ELAS)". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question asked by MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr.Kingos Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "To renew the contract with the Municipality of Phaistos and continue its operation of the OAED Response Office at the City Hall in Moires". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the supplementary agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK A sole debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘(a) Incorporation into Greek legislation provisions of Directives (EU) 2017/2455, (EU) 2019/1995 and (EU) 2018/1910 in respect of obligations arising from value added tax for services and sales of goods remotely and related arrangements (b) Amendments to Regulation (EU) No469/2019 ‘Support programme for securitisations’ (A `206), under C(2021) 2545/09.04.2021 (2021/N) of the European Commission’s approval decision to extend the programme ‘HRAKLES’ - (c) Provisions on debt regulation and on the provision of a second opportunity - Amendments to n. 4738/2020 and other provisions’. The Conference of Presidents decided at its meeting on 8 July 2021 to discuss the draft law at a meeting, uniform in principle, on articles and amendments. The debate will take place with a combination of the presence and participation of Members through teleconferencing services. In particular, the rapporteurs, special speakers, the Parliamentary Representatives, as well as the MPs, will take part in a six-member cycle as a priority, which will include one speaker from each party and two twelve-member circles, with the following proportion per parliamentary group: five from New Democracy, three from the SYRIZA, one from the Change Movement, one from the KKE, one from the Greek Solution and one from the Day25. Those of the above Members wish to participate by teleconferencing. The name of the speaker has already been assigned by the Parliamentary Groups by letters. The department has established a list to be distributed to you. I would remind you that speakers who will be put through a teleconferencing conference will speak as soon as the speakers' cycles are completed in a natural presence. In addition, I tell you that the relevant ministers will come to present the amendments. A list has been distributed here and, based on the number of speakers we have before us - the agency has made a calculation, I say it for colleagues from the region and perhaps, they are interested in what time they will be released to go - I think with a little tolerance for speakers around 18.00 p.m. to 18.30 p.m. we can be done. Fat I'm telling you, so you know who you want to take care of your departures. Does this House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u2	The House agreed. We shall begin with Mr Georgios Amanatidis, the rapporteur-general of the New Democracy. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today I have the honour of presenting a draft law incorporating the provisions of directives into Part I, and of amending existing laws in the following. In particular, during the previous four meetings, there was a comprehensive discussion and analysis of the arrangements of the draft law and we have all understood that its arrangements contribute positively, firstly, to the incorporation of the provisions of the Directives, with a view to extending VAT on distance services, with compulsory application from 1 July 2021. That was the first place. Part II provides for the continuation of the programme to become more operational during its eighteen-month prolongation. The aim is to further strengthen the banks and to channel funds for the benefit of businesses and households. Part III provides for the improvement of the conditions for the adjustment of debts to provide the second chance. Starting from Part I, new rules and obligations arising from value added tax are incorporated within our law and for distance selling of goods and services. For distance selling of goods which are imported in terms of value up to EUR 150, the provisions of the directive aim, first, to simplify the procedures for both businesses and consumers, to avoid tax evasion and tax avoidance when small packages are imported. It is also foreseen that the arrangements apply to taxable persons, i.e. undertakings established or not in the European Union, who sell goods and services distancely and to private consumers who are also recipients of parcels. The proposed provisions are amended from 1 July 2021 provisions of the VAT Code and the following basic issues are regulated: first, in order to address the challenges of the explosive development of e-commerce, two new taxable transactions, intra-Community distance selling of goods and distance selling of goods imported from third territories or third countries are introduced. Secondly, specific provisions are laid down on the basis of which in some cases an undertaking facilitating the supply of goods through an electronic interface is considered to be in order to achieve the objectives of VAT to have received and subsequently to have the same goods which it itself delivers, considered as a supplier. Thirdly, the existing limit from EUR 35 000 to EUR 100,000 depending on the Member State of destination for distance sales is abolished and is replaced by a new limit of EUR 10 000 for the whole of the European Union and for specific services. Fourthly, the specific schemes concerning telecommunications broadcasting services B2C will include, firstly, the non-Union scheme and, secondly, the Union scheme with specific provisions. And fifthly, the exemption from VAT on imports of low-value parcels of up to EUR 22 is abolished and a new special scheme for distance sales of goods imported from third territories or third countries is introduced, with an internal value of not more than EUR 150. In Part II, as we have said, 'HERAKLE' arrangements are provided for. The existing provisions of Law 4649/2019, the ‘ERAKLI’ programme are adapted to cover the eighteen-month extension granted by a decision of the European Commission on 9 April 2021. In particular, there are legislative improvements, as I said at the outset, to better clarify specific technical concepts and, secondly, to extend the scope of the securitisations - claims and to leasing contracts granted by credit institutions. Now, who are they talking about? They relate to credit institutions, management companies from loans and credits, all natural and legal persons and investors. What are the objectives of these arrangements? It is the reduction in non-performing loans of credit institutions to one-digit rates in 2022 and the legal certainty of credit institutions participating in the ‘HRAKLIS’ programme to investors and markets. The long-term objectives are that, after the successful implementation of the programme, banks will be allowed to redeem themselves so as to focus on their real role, which is to feed the real economy of households, self-employed and businesses and, at the same time, a long-term objective is to strengthen the banking system of the capital market and to improve the credit rating of the Greek economy, which is directly affected by it. In Part III, where arrangements for the Banking Code are provided, the arrangements set out in this draft law are more - let me express - positive - favourable to the debtors than is the case. Like the Minister, Mr Zavvos, said at the first meeting of the committee at first reading, a number of regulatory frameworks were adopted in the past. In particular, I recall, without mentioning the name of the laws, the out-of-court settlement mechanism for corporate and professional debts, the judicial arrangement for debts of natural persons without bankruptcy, which ended on 28 February 2020, the Finance Code, the grant-payment plan for housing and business loans with a principal mortgage, which ended on 31-7-2020, the special management procedure. Finally, Law 4738/2020 incorporated all these instruments and these arrangements into a single text and substantially reformed the framework that regulated and addressed economic weakness. As the Minister also mentioned at the committee meeting and you know it, the programme has been successfully implemented. In July 2019, red loans were around 75 billion euros, about 43% of the loans. Now we are at 27%, which is why the target for 2022 in a one-digit figure seems to be possible. More importantly, the fall in these loans, of the non-persistent ones, was made at the rate I mentioned earlier without charge of the Greek taxpayer. The proposed amendments seek to clarify the issues that they have dealt with and these arrangements relate to both natural and legal persons who are unable to serve their debts. When drawing up the legislative framework, account was taken of good practice in other countries, both in terms of preventive restructuring and in terms of collective satisfaction and debt relief. The explanatory statement states that the forecasts in Spain and in the Italian Code of Business Crisis were taken into account. The long-term objective of the arrangements is now to strengthen financial stability, as the new framework will be another weapon in dealing with existing red loans but also with the drastic limitation of young people, and the second is to provide incentives for attracting investment. In Article 34, in particular, and briefly, the notion of ‘summary’ of financial institutions, which includes the guarantor, is inserted. It is clear that the restructuring contract concluded has the force of a private document with full evidence of force, provided for when there is a substantiated consent of the public and social security institutions to a proposal for a regulation which does not result from the computational tool provided for in Article 21. The perimeter of the debtors entitled to a subsidy for the repayment of a loan related to their principal residence is also clarified. To this end, they relate to two semesters, the current and the previous and average gross monthly earnings. It is also clear that the principle of non-enhancement of the position of creditors in the resolution institution, i.e. in the collective preliminary procedure, in particular in the requirements of unconscious creditors, is fulfilled. The provision on exemption from any civil, criminal or disciplinary liability of officials to sign a resolution agreement or to give a positive vote on an electronic platform or as a result of their agreement shall also be clarified. It is also foreseen that the rights to financial leases are not prejudiced, and in paragraph 16 it is clear that for the calculation of the percentages required to reach a resolution agreement, the percentages held by the State and the social security institutions whose consent is presumed are also taken into account. It is also clear that the issue concerning the register of experts is one of clear. It is stated that at least one person covering the specifications must be involved and that person cannot be a member of the administration. It is also clarified that the liquidation value of the realisation of the realisation of the realisation of the realisation of the realisation of the property cannot be less than the corresponding requirement for HNVIA. Article 35 states that the presumption of a termination of payments - and it is an addition - is a fighter in favour of the borrower, namely that it should be proved. The answer to the question how this can be proved and when it is presumed that the debtor is on a payout, the answer is when he does not pay overdue financial obligations to the public, social security institutions or credit institutions more than 40% for six months and when the balances of the due are over EUR 30 000. It shall also be clarified that bankruptcy of a small item is notified to the debtor within 15 days of its publication, otherwise no consequences arise from its submission. The purpose of this provision is to clarify that the debtor has the right of intervention. Another issue which is also foreseen is the offence of misappropriation in the bankruptcy procedure, from which, if it is understood and proved by a party or by persons who have been abused, then this action is automatically persecuted. Article 40 is supplemented by the provisions on the procedure for the transfer of real estate and property rights during the merger of credit institutions and provides that in cases where Article 16 applies they shall not be subjected to the merger of credit institutions or to other transformations of zero real estate tax, as the obligation to submit zero returns of real estate tax creates disproportionate administrative costs and charges for the traders. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by mentioning the provisions of No 4738/2020 on debt settlement and the provision of a second chance. As I said, the aim is to tackle the chronic problem of the growth of private debt, which restricts the country's productive potential and deprives valuable resources from development actions. To highly indebted debtors who are unable to cope with the financial difficulties and have remained locked in their debts, often transferring costs to the next generation, they were given the opportunity to get rid of them and make a new start, that is, to have a second chance. With today's draft law, as I said before, issues that have dealt with the law-enforcementers are being clarified so that the framework of the law becomes even more functional and additionally more favourable to debtors. The dynamic adaptation, even in the legislature, should not be overlooked or judged as impossibility in the case where it is an evaluation product but also a guide for a better result and continuous improvement and in this case an improvement for the Greek State, banking institutions, households, self-employed and businesses. Legislation and its update should be judged by the consequences and results they bring. So in an environment of difficulties and uncertainty created by pandemics, ladies and gentlemen, the government under the guidance of the Prime Minister with a design and methodical approach to the unfavourable consequences of the crisis and at the same time designed and implemented an ambitious reform work in almost all areas and promotes improvements where experience and act prove that they are needed. I would urge you to vote in favour of this draft law and thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr Charalampos (Haris) Mamoulakis, the rapporteur-general of SYRIZA, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are in the plenary session to discuss and vote in the final vote on the draft guarantee of the Committee on Credit Institutions. It is essentially the government's plan for an extension, the so-called 'HARAKEL 2'. But allow me a comment, which I think is extremely timely and certainly concerns the thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises in the country that are currently lurking in the midst of the pandemic crisis. And why do I mention this, and why do I keep it in line with this bill? Today we are now being called upon to provide another aid to the financial and banking institutions in the country in such a way that they can unload a cumulate horse, a cumulate burden they have, from the previous times of crisis. We are coming to strengthen them, to help them, to help them, to do so. Who? The banks. What are they doing? That is what I wanted to make known to the House, but also to the Greek citizens. Recently, a few 24 hours ago, in a debate, the Minister of Finance of the Hellenic Republic and executives of Greek systemic banks and the Association of Greek Banks discussed the famous and important issue of the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. As you know, more than eight hundred Greek small and medium-sized enterprises exist in the country. Practical way of funding, in a concrete way of financing, has only twenty-five or twenty-six thousand of them, or even a one-digit percentage flirting at 4% to 5% levels. On all Greek companies 4% to 5% have the possibility of financing. So what did the representative of the Association of Greek Banks make clear in a clear and clear way in the face of the immediate Minister of Finance? That there is no possibility - cleared it up, listen - to the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, over eight hundred thousand, but only the seventy thousand of them and conditional. It therefore sets a precedent outside the financing framework of five hundred thousand Greek small and medium-sized enterprises. And that's publicly recorded. I think it should be taken into account throughout the reasoning it holds and governs the rulers in the next period. How is it possible and how will we fund or strengthen or guarantee the financial system of the country when it is deafeningly and provocatively, I would say, turn its back on small and medium-sized enterprises? I think it is an issue that I wanted to devote two minutes, because it is timely, it is burning and, if anything, it concerns all the small and medium-sized ones, the backbone of the Greek economy. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate in Parliament's committees on this bill has surprised me. We waited for the government to try to get the whole of the Opposition consensus on the failure of the HARAKLIS project on the grounds of structural changes in economic data, due to the pandemic. That would be reasonable, and I can say it is expected. Instead, we met a government that celebrates its failure and tramples the opposition parties, because they have a different view of first home auctions from itself. That is why I will try in my speech today to explain to you the reasons why, in our view, the HERAKLIS project has failed and for which soon the policy pursued in the field of red loans, given the recession in the economy, will be a profoundly anti-social approach. In December 2019, the Greek Parliament passed the “Guarantee Scheme” on the securitisations of credit institutions, also known as the “HRAKLIS” programme. The law was the result of a compromise with the institutions, which had been initiated by the previous government, aimed at weakening the red loans in the Greek banking portfolio. Then and now the difference between the SYRIZA plan in relation to the New Democracy was the ones that we received for vulnerable borrowers and the exception to mortgage auction procedures that we would have retained. For us this would oblige servicers or banks to modify their business plan and oblige them in cases of vulnerable borrowers to seek compromising restructuring with borrowers. In any case, either with the SYRIZA plan or the New Democracy project, the securitisation of claims was a tool that could have a positive effect under conditions of recovery of the economy. The increase in employment and income created the necessary space to repay part of the accumulated debt. But in conditions of recession, as is well known, you can't take it unless you have it. However, this simple reasoning has not interrupted the government's reformist determination. The project 'HERAKEL' went ahead. The banks today dropped non-performing loans from 43% at the beginning of 2020 to 27% in March 2021. And under today's law, the government sets the extremely ambitious objective of declining the NPLs, the non-performing loans, non-performing loans, in one-digit figures. But let us see what this success is. To date, guarantees of the Greek State amounting to nearly EUR 8.6 billion have been issued, which is a long way from EUR 31 billion of bank requirements. In particular, the Greek State guarantee-guaranteed securitisation packages are the CAIRO 1, 2 and 3 packages of Eurobank, the VEGA 1, 2, 3 and the Piraeus Bank's PHOENIX package, the GALAXY 2 and 4 and the ORION - X of Alpha Bank. This is to make it clear that government guarantee-guaranteed securitisation is a tool among many used by the banking system to weaken red loans. Mr Zavvos criticised the parliamentary committees for lack of proposals from the opposition, as if our positions were also secret. He is not here today, he is Mr Vésiropoulos, and I shall therefore refer to Mr Vésiropoulos. Minister, to repeat all the data as they are. SYRIZA was elected in 2015 with an election programme that reported the pattern of other European countries in the creation of Bad Bank for the loans of vulnerable households. This position was not accepted by the institutions under the third fiscal adjustment programme and instead a strategy was put in place which provided for the use of different tools for different parts of the bank portfolio, for the amendment of the Katseli Act with the integration of the whole - I stress - of the debts due to its provisions for vulnerable households with mortgages, for example, an extrajudicial mechanism for the loans of freelance professionals and small and medium-sized enterprises, a securitisation of claims for corporate and non-insurance loans, Credit and Wealth Bureau, which you have today adopted as a position and I congratulate you on this - to map the credit risk for new loans. Whether he succeeded or not is another matter. Whenever you want, we can have this conversation, Mr. Undersecretary. The current government has been the day of its election in the understanding that the project 'HRAKLIS' was in itself a sufficient tool to clean up the stables of the banks' Sanctuary, hence the name 'HRAKLIS', of which all the difficult parts of the banks' portfolios, including loans with mortgaged first homes. That was your plan. Under the threat of lifting first homes, the banks would be strengthened against their borrowers and would be easier to blackmail them so that their debtors would accept any arrangement they would have offered. This project, although deeply political and socially immoral, may have succeeded. But what's changed? The answer to this question is one, pandemic. The deterioration in the basic economic levels has made it impossible for vulnerable borrowers to regulate their loans, especially in the present pandemic conditions. The government did not, however, consider it appropriate to change 'rots'. He continued with the plan of threats and extortion in relation to the protection of first residence. For this reason, I am truly handing over to the Minutes of the House the statements made by Mr.Adoni Georgiadis since February 2020, which called on us to "do not ruin our hearts" when the first home auctions would begin on April 30, 2020. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Charalambos (Haris) Mamoulakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The Government originally suspended its planning, but eventually remained consistent with its commitments and proceeded with the lifting of the first home, leaving the time allowed by Law 3869/2010, which had been amended by the Recent Banking Code, giving as the mandatory date for resubmission of an application for temporary withdrawal of an auction to those who had not received a bid by 15 June 2021. Until, that is, just a month ago. The government today celebrates, for its success, but leaves three basic structural and fundamental questions unanswered. First question: What about loans that are being securitised these days? The second question is: What part of the bank portfolio is the existence of a write-down on red loans? Third and essential question: why was it considered appropriate to double the amount of State guarantees for write-down of red loans? President. - The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: To give you our answers to these questions, since you have avoided answering - Mr Zavvos in this regard - four conspicuous committees that have tabled our questions. Answer one. Of the existing securitisations, which primarily relate to corporate loans go well. The servicers pay the fee and the public receives the price of the guarantee they have provided. However, those dealing with smaller packages of loans from freelance professionals or housingers are going very badly. The State receives nothing because the services receive nothing. That is why we are voting today on the extension of the date beyond which the servicers will begin to suffer the financial consequences of not recovering part of the debt. Answer 2. The Greek government's provision of guarantees is progressing slowly. Too late. And it is going slow because, given the serious economic crisis, bank packages are no longer attractive to investors when it comes to the stripe. That is why you also increase the guarantees that the Greek public will provide, at the request of the banks. That is why the services also welcome your decision not to extend the protection of first home to guide business planns in the direction of auctions. Answer three. The government today extends its volume of investment because with the existing guarantees buyers do not accept taking the risk of investment. The government fell out of EUR 12 billion. I would stress that, ladies and gentlemen, EUR 12 billion. In the calculation of the guarantees and this doubling of the guarantees Mr Zavvos calls him'market confidence'. For four symptoms we have asked and will ask today, do you have an estimate of the possible incursions? Assessment of the financial burden of the Greek State do you have? Assessment of the long-term burden of the country's government debt profile on the denominations of guarantees do you have? No answer! Ladies and gentlemen, our ideological differences are illustrated and known. In the present circumstances, however, given the macro-economic effects of the pandemic, it would be normal for the government to take an initiative to differently manage banks' loans with a guarantee of first home, as would be normal and also to take an initiative to holisticly deal with the private sector’s debt, which has, in the midst of a pandemic, taken appalling proportions. The government, however, does not only do this, but is blind, considering that the nominal impairment of the amount of non-performing loans constitutes itself and disappears from the private debt problem. Unfortunately for the government, unfortunately for small and medium-sized enterprises and, of course, unfortunately, for vulnerable borrowers, this plan will soon hit a wall! On the 'wall' of loans with mortgages, first residence. And then the Mitsotakis Government will put another blackmailing and immoral dilemma on Greek society, calling on us to choose between either financing the real economy or the right of Greek citizens to housing. We are not going to enter such a dilemma when there are alternative proposals, such as that of the Bank of Greece which the government does not consider, and that is why, ladies and gentlemen, we will vote against this bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u6	My colleague, Mr Michael Katrinis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u7	Ladies and gentlemen, in the magic world of New Democracy's governance, the Minister of Development Mr Georgiadis yesterday celebrated why foreign direct investment increased from 22 in 2019 to 39 in 2020, forgetting that at the same time we are in the sixty-third place between 64 countries being examined. In the same magical world of New Democracy's governance, it is also the bi-corruption of the financial staff to approve the "ELLADA 2.0" programme by ECOFIN, with 106 investment and 68 reforms, as Mr Skeylakakis said, with announcements to stimulate social cohesion and create many good jobs, to put the country on a stable path of growth, as he said, with a single reference to small and medium-sized enterprises, hundreds of thousands of small and medium-sized enterprises, traders, craftsmen and professionals, with the ability to transform digitally. At a time when a majority of all of these are threatened with 'luketo', because of past debts, because of reduced amounts of money, perhaps for all of them, ladies and gentlemen, it is not so important for the development of e-shop or cybersecurity issues, since the insecurity of real survival prevails. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is being discussed at a time when private debt has exceeded all its precedents, enforcement measures and enforcement measures break one record after another. New dues are increasing month after month, week after week, day after day, and over 90% of the country's small and medium-sized enterprises are excluded from the banks, so out of 12.7 billion of the Recovery Fund, since despite the creation of the liquidity observatory nine months ago and the ongoing - of course - economic staff meetings with a banking system, the net flow of loans in 2021 will not exceed EUR 3 billion. The Minister in the committee said that 70% of the loans made by TEPIX II amounted to up to 10 employees, but he misunderstood to mention the percentage of money directed at small enterprises that were much, but much less. According to the Bank of Greece's latest monetary policy report, the credit expansion to households continued to decrease both in 2020 and in the first quarter of 2021, at the same time as the credit expansion increased to large enterprises and 2020 and in the first quarter of 2021. On the one hand, 648 large companies with a balance of 24.5 billion, on the other 59.800 companies with a loan balance of 41.4 billion. The conclusions of yours! All this at a time when the banking system is being borrowed at almost a negative interest rate from the European Central Bank, it is showing increased deposits of 23 billion, mainly from money provided to companies that were ultimately not in need, while it presents the banking system and an improved picture of the balance sheets from the reduction of red loans which are certainly not being reduced, simply transfer to the servicers. Gentlemen of the government, you celebrate the reduction of red loans in bank balance sheets, which you claim will continue with the expansion of the "HRAKLE" that we are discussing today. But you are not explaining why this reduction in red loans does not lead to an increase in the flow of financing from the banking system to the real economy, nor does it, of course, lead to a facilitator's position. You say misleadingly, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that the reduction in red loans has led to a reduction in borrowing costs - if possible! - when you know that this is due - not to say exclusively - to the European Central Bank's 'PEP' programme, the bond exchange programme. New Democracy insists on securitisations of "HRAKLE" without having examined the proposal for Bad Bank which has been submitted for many months publicly by the Bank of Greece for many months, without seeing the light of publicity any study or cost analysis that will compare the two schemes with both efficiency and cost for the public. The Government has not yet answered and has not made it clear whether the ‘ERAKEL’ is cheaper for the taxpayer or for the banking system. The Government refuses to admit that the problem of the deferral of the tax burden on banks' capital entails the stability of the financial system. The Government argues that with HRAKLE the State does not take over any additional risk, but at the same time gives additional extension to servicers for the assessment of performance on the basis of the business plan they have deposited. The assessments have either taken into account all available data or have not been taken into account, so there is a need for an extension. It can't happen both. And as the course of the securitisations falls short of the original objectives, ladies and gentlemen, that is the truth that does not admit the government's financial staff - the risk of the Greek taxpayer putting his hand in the pocket is increasing. Mr Zavvos, of course, said that at the moment the cost of "HRAKLE" for the Greek taxpayer is zero. This does not, however, deny that the public guarantee is provided for BB securities, a rating four times lower than that applied to the Italian State. So now we have zero costs, but can Mr Zavvos or the financial staff guarantee that there will be no cost to the Greek taxpayer? And what are the resources - as Mr Zavvos says - that were derived from investors when the junior securities are of zero value? The mezzanine titles are offered with a great discount. Indeed, it is characteristic that they were distributed free of charge to existing shareholders of a systemic bank recently. In the reasonable question, which is not only raised by the Change Movement, whether banks have taken into account the effects of the pandemic on the additional requirements for funds and the new non-performing loans, the government early, unwittingly and unwittingly answers that these will be about 4 to 5 billion, without an assessment of the financial implications of a new pandemic with the Delta mutation, without an estimate of the revenues of this year's tourist season, which seems to be even this year, unfortunately, considerably reduced compared with 2009, despite the estimates of the budget which were speaking of 60% - and I say this because I want to remind my fellow Members that before the start of a pandemic one in the three loans for tourism was unserved, you understand that after two difficult tourist seasons will be worsening - without the Government having assessed the behaviour of households and businesses when it comes to a very short deal of debt, as the Bank is renegotguld and of a very short-term debt ratio of interest. The services are, of course, claiming that they will make 63 billion red loans in the next period, as the economy will obviously be extinguished in their assessment. They are the same servicers that the government has advertised and bets that they will offer the borrowers four hundred twenty-dollars to regulate their loans on the extrajudicial platform, i.e. installments for thirty-five years when we all know that the operational plan of the funds is seven, eight or ten years. A platform that is no different from SYRIZA's failed platform, which in three years' time served two thousand two hundred and thirty-eight settings. A platform that has no personalised arrangements is not capable of effectively assessing the viability of the proposed arrangement by any institution intervening between the servicer on the one hand and the borrower on the other. Even the application of the Code of Conduct of the banks reinstated in this bill is incomplete, since it does not provide for an improved proposal from the banking system in the event of failure to accept and apparently the first proposal from the debtor. The government has as a great success the twenty-five thousand applications that have been made to date, at the same time as a million eight hundred and fifty thousand taxpayers are under forced collection measures, when more than one million are non-performing loans today, with 50% of the loans still in the banking system being reported. Compare numbers. Millions of debtors on the one hand, twenty-five thousand submissions on the other, how many arrangements will be made on this platform and when will these arrangements arise? Then I think we will be able to make a fund and see if the platform of the new bankrupt bankrupt has paid off or failed. The Government withdrew with the new bankruptcy, which it has today, definitively corrected Law 3869/2010 for the highly indebted households and abolished any framework for the protection of first homes by opposing that the loan grants would cover the gap. Only 10% of the loans granted by the "GEOFYRA 1" programme were incomplete, while the professionals' applications for the "GEFYRA 2" programme ranged to 25% to 30% of the initial estimated figure despite the extension given. The explanation, ladies and gentlemen, is simple: obviously our fellow citizens have not been denounced of state aid and have not refused the so tempting and favourable programmes as the government at least presented them and there was no possibility of denying this subsidy and of subsidising them because of the financial situation. However, both programmes had no response, because they were designed on the basis of the needs of the banks so that they did not risk new red loans in their balance sheets and were not designed on the basis of the need for borrowers to support themselves and the need for weak borrowers to exhaust any margin to save their main residence in this difficult economic and social period. The Government is changing the bankruptcy framework one month after its implementation with significant improvements that do not affect the central planning of the law. Fast and massive liquidation of bankrupt businesses and households, which, according to the Mitsotakis Government, leads to a second chance in one country - the government says that this is a framework of a second chance - which, if someone delays their loan one day, gets into the White Tyresia for a year. Is that the banking system that will give a second chance to a bankrupt businessman of government? Mr Stagiras argues that no auctioning of houses of vulnerable borrowers is taking place because of the informal agreement with the banks. But it does not commit to whether and when the property acquired by the owner at least extends his residence for 12 years in his home as a tenant, since there is no way with the provisions and provisions of the law to acquire it again. What will the government do until then? And why has it not been established to date that the rental bonus for weak borrowers has not been made subject to informal government-bank agreements, but that there is a concrete and firm and strong institutional framework? Will you postpone first home auctions for weak borrowers, gentlemen, until you introduce the real estate buyer? Apparently, no. What your intentions are is also shown by the provision of Article 35, where for the first time the philosophy of decades changes in the treatment of wages, with creditors now fruiting the income that exceeds the minimum standard of living. The possibility of regulating loans which have the public guarantee is a positive development. It is questionable, however, whether it will eventually be applied and whether uniform rules will be in place, since some guarantees have already been swallowed and have to be repaid as a whole. I say this because there are thousands of cases of firefighting borrowers in both Elias and other regions, which have been in hostage for years, since the banks did not regulate loans and guarantees. This was made possible by the new bankrupt. Of course, loans are being paid for as a whole, so some borrowers will all pay the debt and some people will be able to regulate it with the banks if the framework is in place. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At the same time, the guarantors remain committed, even if the first debtors have been relieved of a significant part of the debt due to bankruptcy or bankruptcy in favour. We have proposed the reintroduction of the Act of Katseli with updated criteria and suspension of first home auctions for weak borrowers. We have proposed a preference on the loan market before it ends up in the fund at a higher price, to the profit margin of a loan that may not exceed 60% of the acquisition value. A loan that is acquired at 15% cannot be requested to be sold at 90% of its value. And of course, we have proposed to deplete the number of two hundred forty instalments in the case of loans for first residence or basic professional housing and to protect a minimum percentage of agricultural property as a means of survival. At the same time, the Change Movement today tables amendments to the unfair and disproportionate taxation of retroactive taxes on pension cuts, where we propose an autonomous tax rate of 20% on the basis of Article 60 of Law No 4172/2013 and to restore the injustice of officials of the Ministry of Finance, the Legal Council of State, ELSTAT and the Court of Auditors, where they do not possess the applicable provisions on personal differences. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I am going to refer to the amendments in my second language. I would like to say, however, that we support the amendment that comes up for the Navy programme. Of course, the government at some point should see whether it has an integrated strategy for the shipbuilding industry, because especially at Elefsina Shipyards, it is leading the situation to a dead end. At the Scaramaga shipyard, I don't think there's any room for celebration. Mr President, because I know your sensitivity, I want to say Amendment No 977. It is also the request of the RESEARCH and the Change Movement that the archaic term should finally be removed that they are incapable of work and need help, a term that has been in place since 1988. Ladies and gentlemen, with the exception of the provisions relating to the incorporation of the Tax Provisions Directive, which we shall be voting on, the rest of the bill is based on the government's failed logic of management of private debt, a logic which - if possible - makes the success of reducing red loans, while the debts of households and businesses are increasing, while the seizures are falling rain, a logic that advertises bankruptcy not only as a second chance, but as a unique opportunity, excluding 90% of the country's liquidity entrepreneurship, with mathematical ending of the carpets and unemployment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u8	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u9	I shall conclude, Mr President. We disagree with the logic of the government, we disagree with the strategy, which leads to a deadlock and hostage of thousands of our fellow citizens, to a 'negotiation', with a platform without conditions and rules, without a clear institutional framework, without a sense of economic and social reality. The management of private debt will depend on the future of thousands of businesses and thousands of workers, social cohesion and the stability of the country. This management, ladies and gentlemen, should not be allowed to be indicated by economic centres alone, it should not be carried out without a political aim and without a plan for the next day, but a plan that will fit all, even in a different position. And that is a starting position, which should be the whole of the political system. And based on this position of principle, we are voting against this bill. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u10	The special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u11	Thank you, Mr President. The draft law of the Government of the New Republic is a ‘particular legal obligation’, as the Deputy Minister of Finance noted in committee, after being approved by the European Commission. It incorporates Directives of the European Union concerning VAT for intra-Community distance selling of goods, extends the HARAKLIS programme, amends the Banking Code. The bill has the full support of the representatives of the Greek banks who, as they said in committee: "The bill is moving in the right direction and will help to weaken the red loans. Who serves the program “HERAKLIS”? Who serves the impairment of red loans? Can banks and borrowers be satisfied at the same time? Here is what the Ministry of Finance notes about the "HRAKLIS" programme: HERAKLIS is exalting the balance sheets of the banks, increasing their profitability and thus enabling them to regain their real role in financing the real economy and strengthening the recovery. That's what the Treasury says. How were non-performing loans born? A great deal of populist households, forced into banking lending during the growth period, to cover elementary housing and consumer needs were then crushed by the capitalist crisis, the anti-grassroots measures taken with the memoranda and hundreds of meters, unemployment, wage cuts, taxation. So they were driven to despair. They are the ones who paid for the ten-year crisis and continue to pay for the consequences of this sanctuary disease, this system of dictatorship of the monopolies of capitalism. The governments, on the other hand, have put together - and put - all the rights of workers, the people's classes, the self-employed, the professional craftsmen, traders, the bio-opportunities farmers to support the monopolies and business groups. This policy is presented when it is restructured, never as reforms and never as modernisation. Combining all measures against workers, people's families to protect monopolistics and business groups led to the launch of unserved private debt. As a result of this attack, a large number of workers and people's populations were driven to impoverishment, cannot pay the unfavourable taxes, insurance contributions. Professionals and self-employed, of course, because of the reversals in the insurance system by the Katrugalou law, were led to the possibility that they could not serve the loans they had received, precisely during the development period to meet these needs, that they could not meet with their income. For precisely with their incomes, these needs could not be met, as did the professional in production, as did the farmer. Bank pressure before the crisis was huge in channelling liquidity and overcompensated funds to borrowing. Who does not remember the efforts made by the banks to provide loans, whether there was a need or no. It was an attempt not to manifest the crisis of overcompensation in the mid-2000s. It occurred shortly later in greater depth, with a loss of gross domestic product over 25% from 2009 to 2017. The Government of New Democracy and the previous governments in their priority have set the management of red loans as a prerequisite for improving the financial situation of the banks, redefining the banks and establishing stability and stability in the financial system. That was the aim of all the governments of capital, and not the relief of the squares of populace from the huge unhelpful private debts that have accumulated over the years. That is why measures have been taken to facilitate the auctions at the expense of the people's units, to the detriment of housing and professional loans. The result of all this was the apparent decrease in non-performing loans, because a very large part, due to HARAKEL, has been transferred from the non-performing loans to the various funds, to the predators as they had termed the previous period by SYRIZA. This transfer, however, has not relieved the populace of high private debt. On the contrary, the high private debt remains on the back of the populace. A second cause of the reduction in non-performing loans is the derecognition of loans made by banks over the past period and over the current and previous governments. As a JRC, we have asked the Minister and the Banking Union to make known which loans have been cancelled over the last decade, what kind of loans were those, what levels were, which sectors were concerned. So far there has been a refusal to give this information. It is clear that business loans have been written off both by the New Democracy and by SYRIZA. As it has been written in the press, it concerns loans to logistics capital, large groups of tourism, other businessmen active in commerce. On the one hand, you are deleting business loans and, on the other, not only are you discussing the deletion of housing loans and professional loans, but on the other hand, you are capitalising interest and you are going to auction by abolishing the protection of first homes. Let us remind you that SYRIZA has turned a specific offence to blocking auctions from the people's movement and, of course, continues to maintain this law. The new bankruptcy code, adopted by the current government, came to speed up the auction procedures and overcome any malfunctions that existed in the previous period, facilitating the management of red loans for the benefit of predators who currently own them. The ‘HRAKLES’ programme provides state guarantees to banks for the transfer of these red loans to the funds. On the basis of this draft law, 12 billion will be given at this time as guarantees. We believe that no one can guarantee that state guarantees will not be suppressed, so they will not increase the state debt. This design serves banks and cords that manage red loans. The aim is to speed up the auction process. This is coming to solve the new bankruptcy code. According to reports of two hundred and fifty thousand auctions are about to take place in the next period. The majority concern housing, business and loans to farmers. The result of the new bankruptcy code will be to facilitate auctions, but also to concentrate economic activity on less and less hands, focusing on the land, with a change of use, to implement the "green" transition policy in the field of energy with photovoltaic and wind turbines even in high productivity land. This is facilitated by auctions. The government planning with the bill is precisely to serve the financial system and the ‘HRAKLIS’ project and the new Banking Code at the expense of the people's needs. All previous governments have taken steps in this direction. Three recapitalisations were made for the banks at the expense of the Greek taxpayer. EUR 45 billion was given. They were transferred to state debt, which you, the New Democracy, as before SYRIZA, are calling on Greek taxpayers to pay for it. The current government's GEOGRAPHY 1 and GEOGRAPHY 2 actually finances banks so that they can serve a series of loans and do not explode as a result of the new capitalist crisis in red loans. But the generosity of the bourgeois state and governments towards the banks, which is great, is repaid by the banks with branch closures. Up to 50% of the branches of the Greek banks have been reduced and over 45% of the employees have been reduced to the banks. There are many questions that have been asked, Mr Secretary, in relation to the closure of branches and the problems faced by many workers, farmers, pensioners and professionals in all these areas, who have to travel miles so that they can be served by other branches that exist in their areas. In addition to this, banks overthrow workers' working and insurance rights and intensify their work. They continue, through digitisation, to announce voluntary withdrawal programmes. Piraeus Bank has already announced five hundred more than a thousand, which it had done in 2020. And, of course, the rest of the banks continue in the same direction. Non-performing loans and, by extension, private debt will be managed or made for the benefit of the banks, or will be for the benefit of overdue households, professionals and farmers. There's no middle street. They cannot be satisfied with this planning. Already with the 'HRAKLIS' project, but also with the Bad Bank project, as the other forces say here, are serving banks. The burdens of management are transferred to the highly indebted people, to the taxpayers. The JRC has said that - and it is fighting for it - it is with the protection of highly indebted people's households. That is why he has, of course, tabled a number of proposals in the position that the shareholders of the banks should be protected and paid for. The Minister, of course, explained to the committee what a realistic proposal means and said that it is what is in line with European law. Our people have paid and paid very much for this realism. The only realistic proposal is the proposal for a law, which has been tabled several times by the JRC. It has, of course, been rejected by all of you on the grounds that the economy cannot withstand while you are constantly voting for the benefits and exemptions for capital. The way out that can be provided to alleviate the popular layers of non-performing loans, the huge non-performing private debt is the brave haircut not only of interest, but also of capital, housing loans, professional, livestock and agricultural loans and farmers. This proposal for a law, the JRC, which has submitted it to both the SYRIZA Government and now to the New Democracy, has rejected it. And that should be taken into account by all those who are in this situation today. In addition to the brave haircut of the entire interest, but also of the capital of the loans, we have also demanded full protection from the auctions of the houses, which cover housing needs of the people's family, as well as full protection from the auctions of all the necessary means to continue the professional activity of professionals, self-employed persons, traders, craftsmen, as well as bio-private farmers, farmers and fishermen. The JRC's proposals are, of course, at the reverse of your policy. The JRC will continue with its members, with its forces to support all those who have been in this situation and will strive for no auctions and confiscations, to support the first residence and the work tools of professionals. We are voting against this draft law because it is against them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u12	Mr Vassiliardos has the floor from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, first of all we consider it appropriate to point out the great efforts of Mr Zavvos, whom we consider to be very important in terms of saving the Greek banks by reducing their red loans, even though we have their sale to capital at degrading prices. As we have seen, however, all of us, banks do not appreciate what they are doing at all, continuing not to lend small and medium-sized enterprises and, in fact, to their own bank profitability. Why are they doing it? Quite simply, they have learned to earn without risk and safely money through Greek taxpayers, who despite having cost them huge sums, over 60 billion euros, together with the deferred tax, rescue them again and again, as recently as the Attica and Piraeus Banks. We also want to point out that, instead of taking part in the extremely important debate over the medium term, the Prime Minister chose to support the N65 of the national contractor with the first money from the Recovery Fund - if possible - since it had not initially been approved by the Commission. We are talking about a project that was commissioned without an invitation to tender, as if there were only the 'TERNA' in Greece - really, what does the Competition Committee do? - and without giving any discounts, which is a great originality and a suspect, of course. In the first committee we have now mentioned that this bill is another one dictated by the troika, as shown by the tenth evaluation, continuing and amending the Memorandum policies implemented by the Government. It is logical, therefore, that foreign houses congratulate it on its effective governance, and that they characterise our non-real public debt as sustainable, mainly served, with the support of the European Central Bank. There is, however, no quicker amendment to a adopted law, such as the current new bankruptcy law - an abortion, which has just begun to apply, through which hundreds of thousands of Greeks will lose their homes, since the auctions will soon reach a six-digit number. At the same time, the government is preparing excuses to cover its ongoing waste and failures, and it seems to incriminate the non-vaccinated - as the pandemic before - even though failure is due to its unbelievable mismanagement. We must not forget, of course, that apart from our unsustainable public debt, there is also the unsustainable red debt, where, on the one hand, the sale of public property, on the other hand, with the private auctions, Greece will eventually change ownership status. We'll keep saying it. It is something that the New Democracy cannot understand, because for its own exorbitant non-viable and steadily increasing debts there have been no consequences. As the Minister of Development said recently, however, they will not be paid, while the Greeks know and vote for the New Democracy, as Mr Tsipras also claimed in relation to the unconstitutional reversal of the referendum and the signing of the third memorandum. Therefore, both parties consider themselves to enjoy political immunity, while the New Democracy and judicial immunity. Continuingly, the bill concerns the following three sections: firstly, VAT on services and distance selling, which is reasonably dictated by an increase in electronic commerce in the middle of the pandemic, due to the imposition of the disastrous lockdown which we hope will never happen again. Secondly, the plan 'HERAKLIS II' and amendments, which continue 'HARAKLIS I', which we have referred to both in the draft legislation and in the deferred tax. Red loans are not lost, of course, but are transferred with losses for banks, but also for the public, in terms of taxes, to foreign capital with the guarantee of the public for much of them. Given that new red loans are expected due to Lockdowns, which banks calculate to EUR 5 to EUR 6 billion, while the Bank of Greece, at EUR 8 to 10 billion, as we have seen at the last hearing of operators, will continue. So there's probably another "HERAKEL III", third. Unfortunately, the government - the troika, which governs Greece - did not listen to our proposal for the adoption of the 1933 American method, with the creation of a state agency that would solve the problem very easily, without losing the ownership of the citizens and at much lower cost. Thirdly, the third and last part of the bill relates to amendments to the new bankruptcy, without changing the substance of its unacceptable content, especially under the present conditions of our economy, while it is getting worse, which should really be embarrassed by the government. In any case, it is totally unacceptable that no cost-effectiveness should be presented by the General Accounting Office of the State. Why, really? Didn't make it? Can't he or can't he? All that matters is to apply the troika orders? We do not need to see how much we will be imposing our already unsustainable public debt? What is important is that urgent measures should be initiated without any substantial debate? Certainly, however, there is an economic footprint from the measures, positive from the imposition of VAT and negative from the guarantees of HERAKLIS, although with some revenue from commissions. Starting now, from the first part, from VAT, this provision will apply to small packages as well as to cross-border services. In this respect, this is the only relatively negative element in the bill, whereas in the case of the individual articles, we have mentioned our questions and proposals to the committees, without, unfortunately, getting adequate answers. In the second part, in the ‘HRAKLIS’ programme, we firstly documented to the committee that the banks circumvent the Hardouvels Act, and that an own-initiative inquiry by a prosecutor cannot be carried out after being excluded from Article 5.2 of Law No.4637/2019. We also stressed that the doubling of the securitisation package is promoted, without even mentioning the General Accounting Office of the State, while in the tenth assessment it is stated that this will reduce the bank's red loans to a one-digit number. In any case, red loans are not reduced, after being transferred to a fund, to capital funds, while the State provides guarantees without even obtaining rights against the banks' fixed assets. What is lost is the deferred tax, as in the recent case of the Bank of Attica, for which there is no cost from the General Accounting Office of the State. The guarantees in the medium term are, however, estimated at EUR 10 billion and, potentially, a manifest debt, while it is an indirect financing of banks, such as the 'Gefyra' programme and much more. In any case, as far as the success of the projects 'HRAKLIS' is concerned, it depends entirely on the improvement of the Greek economy, not just the growth rate, which will easily exceed 4.5% of the previous 10 years. It depends mainly on improving the incomes of households and the profits of small and medium-sized enterprises, which in turn would increase the value of bank guarantees, while serving their debts, since they are the profit-making borrowers. As far as the Minister is concerned, we now state that the government has the confidence of the markets, that it obviously means Germany, and by the way, it has been made public another fraud, which was the creation of a cartel of its automotive industries. It is not only the government that has confidence in the markets, but also the other two parties of the 'troika domestic' that support it. Much more so, the Civic Opposition, which is considered by foreigners as a reserve in relation to New Democracy, quite rightly in our view, is how much more so when, during its governance, everything was signed at the supranational, Mr., while the state operated with great primary surpluses when the New Democracy had huge deficits. So, logically, he enjoys the confidence of the citizens. But what is the definition of trust for lenders, as we usually call Germany? The fact that the government will obey their orders, such as the adoption of the laws implementing'reforms', the sale of public property and the auctioning of private property by the faithful application of the new bankruptcy law - an abortion, which is clearly seen in the tenth assessment of enhanced supervision, as the memorandums and troika have now been baptized. Of course, the Government argues that the definition of confidence is the sale of government bonds at low interest rates, as well as the reduction in their performance of spreads, which is certainly not the case. In particular, one wonders, because today investors believe that the Greek Government will be able to sell bonds at all times and be able to pay them off at their end, since Greece is economically in a more financial position than in previous years, how much more than in 2010, which had been completely excluded from each side, we are only reminded of 127% of GDP debt and almost negligible red private debt. In this respect, the reason is one and only one: the European Central Bank has changed its role by buying massive Greek bonds, including the "PEPP". This decision by the European Central Bank to buy Greek bonds has fundamentally changed the position of investors, since when they calculate that they will be able to sell to the ECB at any time Greek bonds at the purchase price, they will no longer play any role for them if the Greek Government's money is finished or not, of course, the nonsense about the pillow price of 34 or 37 billion, which is certainly not at the disposal of the government, as was the case with the previous one. Just the specific statement of intentions by the European Central Bank, which is equivalent to the provision of a credit guarantee to Greece, is why investors suddenly buy and hold Greek bonds, while the deficit limits of the Stability and Growth Pact have been suspended for the time being. Therefore, Greek bonds are a successful story today, because the European Central Bank guarantees and supports, both the liquidity and the solvency of Greece, which it did not do during the 2010 crisis. However, given the fact that the PEPP is not a permanent but temporary one, it is a temporary situation which will soon come to an end, after some 27 billion of the 37 billion promised by the ECB has been exhausted, so the government will have to anticipate and take its measures before it is too late. Especially with regard to spreads, the difference between the yields of Greek bonds and similar German bonds in 2019, before the pandemic was almost zero, while it increased shortly after and later decreased again steadily below the 100 basis points or 1% as translated into base units. In fact, the interest rate that Greece would have borrowed today, if the European Central Bank hadn't intervened, would have been about two points below what banks are borrowing as usual. It is not right to consider as a criterion the 8.75% issued by Piraeus Bank, but as the average of the other healthier banks. When, of course, a bank borrows at 8.75% at what rate to lend? So what the government needs to ensure is to improve the economic situation of households and small and medium-sized enterprises, which does not seem to succeed, as it has a foreign policy, a mixture of neoliberalism on the part of the divestment of public property and the enlargement of the state, in general, and a poorly understood socialism based on the waste of EUR 41 billion in just two years' time with borrowers, which certainly does not lead to a change of our failed economic model and the production of wealth that is necessary in Greece. Unfortunately, however, most of our questions were not answered by the State Secretary, so we reasonably proposed that the government should simply legislate by presiding decrees and by PPPs, since it does not even take into account the constructive remarks made by the Opposition. The third part of the amendments to the new bankruptcy is, in particular, improvements in the interests of speculative capital and banks, while it appears clearly in the tenth assessment that the Troika rewards the government for its effectiveness in the sense that it is in a position to vote quickly in this House for such robbery laws. In this regard, having discussed in detail all the articles, many of which are criminal, we stressed that the postponement of the auctions is self-evident, if anything, because the management body, which has been announced by the Government for the stay of debtors with rent in their homes for twelve years, among others, has not been established. We have closed our introduction to the third meeting of the committee with Article 42, with the entry into force. We were struck by the fact that the effect on the VAT of small packages and the new bankruptcy starts from the deposit of the draft law in the House and not from its publication in the Official Journal of the Government, as is usually the case. So much is the troika rushing to lose their homes - is it afraid that some time they will wake up from their lethargy? For all these reasons, which we have mentioned, we will obviously vote against the bill - a memorandum. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u14	We close the circle of rapporteurs and speakers with Mr Kritonas Arsenis from Mera25. From the first circle of six speakers, Mr. Konsolas from New Democracy, Mr. Alexiadis, from SYRIZA, Mr. Loverdos, from the Change Movement, follow. The rest of the parties have not given speakers, so then we'll be on the list. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. MP and MPs, Minister, we are really sitting here discussing the dismantling of Greek society, that citizens are losing their homes, that you take them every opportunity in this life, taking them incomes and homes. And we're talking about it as if it was another bill. It's like nothing's wrong. And that will pass, and everyone will find their little lady. It is incomprehensible that we are sitting here and discussing at the worst economic moment in the country for the citizens - not all, for its citizens - the extension of the plan 'HRAKLIS', that is, the extension of the 'no opportunity' for those who made the mistake of getting a loan before the memorials and losing their homes and all their property. They're the ones that fly to Cavalas. This is the plan "HRAKLIS", it is the modern one. Whoever made the mistake of getting a loan to Kaidas! Mr. Stavros and Mr. Zavvos are missing. I shall, however, read their words in the committees. What brings us this bill? One should expect that it brings us to tackle the enormous social problem that citizens are staying homeless. What does Mr. Stavros say? 'Investment opportunities, exploitation of inert resources'. Nothing else. Families with babies, who will stay homeless! That's the investment! Who are the inert resources? That they had a home and they weren't in commerce, weren't they? And he dared to speak about social fair growth. What is social justice, which the Members of the New Democracy see here, but, as I understand it, other Members are also aware? The bankruptcy of all families? The concentration of business in the hands of a few? Is that social justice? You are now reaping every sense used in social struggles, making it yours to plunder it, as you loot homes. Mr. Zavvos. Who's this bill for? For taxpayers, investors and banks. The Caucasus, the borrowers. In the moment, everyone who owes them. Let them lose their homes. There's no social problem. Are you bringing us, at the moment in the society that does not have breath, which cannot breathe from financial burdens, a red loan bill and is it not your goal to tackle the social problem? Are seizures and evictions investment opportunities? Then we see how the whole opposition - except for Mera25 and the JRC - adopts the concept of services. Suddenly the predators became servicers. What are servicers, MPs and MPs? They are the businesses that offer a service, I imagine, from the English service that is the service. What is the service they offer? The liquidation of people's private property. Serviers are for you? Thus, indifferently, services ‘a service offering’. What service? Identify servicers. They are the predators funds, what they get on the phone every day at home, three times a day, and they ask people to cut their neck and pay the red loans they can't. These are the servicers, they're not some services. It's specific services. And no one has the right to play this theatre in front of the citizens. It's not some service, it's the service to get him out of his house. You will tell us 'There is no alternative'. Since the referendum, we hear it every day. The Merra25 not only says it has an alternative, we have given it to you over and over again. Alternatively compatible even with the principles of the European Union, an alternative that has been presented and applied in different countries, as an alternative to your measures. But, you know what, you don't want it, because you want the services. You want to be, in fact, the servicers of the servicers, those who do the services to those who undertake to take the business of the sellers, take the citizens' homes in their hands. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] Instead of Kaida, for "the son of Augia". Why do you think any other Hercules sport can look like what you want to do? For you, the borrowers, say so, do not say 'HERAKLIS'. Say you want to clean up the big problem, which is the borrowers, that someone owes and cleans it up means taking his home, homes, property, income. Because in addition to the plan 'HRAKLIS', you also bring the extension of the bankruptcy law that you legislated in November 2020 into the lockdowns and put into effect as soon as the lockdown ended. And what does it predict? It provides for the confiscation of citizens' property, when it enters the auction for the third time, and the auction is fruitless and not a single euro will be given to the citizens and not a single euro. And you're doing this to send them, with this "bump" guy, to run in the hug of the servicers, those who liquidate their property. Is it about who? Some citizens who had the misfortune to borrow before the memorials? All citizens, who are currently in debt of EUR 30 000 or has guaranteed a EUR 30 000 loan or inherited a borrower. Anyone who has committed this crime, the rare, which concerns the majority of Greek citizens today, is threatened, not only with his property, not only for his income, is threatened with having no chance in this life. And when he's threatened with your confiscation, he runs to save himself, come to a settlement with his lender, go to the platform and make the settlement request. He has no obligation on the lender to answer him. He has no obligation on the lender to counterproposal. If he considers that his proposal is unrealistic, he considers it unilaterally in bankruptcy and will find out after the procedure has been completed. The citizen will know that he has been bankrupt, because you are bankrupt with your law as if it were a company. If he loses a dose of settlement, he goes bankrupt. In any case, the citizen should go bankrupt, because that's your goal. That's why you legislated these in November in the quarantine, you're putting them into effect as soon as the quarantine ended. At the moment, the phones in the citizens' homes are ringing, so long as they stay home to stay homeless. MARA25 calls for a project that we call it "WITHSEUSH" project, because we see these citizens like the modern Odysseys who have done an Odyssey to reach at least ten years now and their home own, to be theirs, to come home. Name the other way, but legislate. We call for the 'ERAKLI' project to be abolished and obviously for bankruptcy to be abolished. We call for the abolition of the guarantees of 12 billion, which you take from everyone's pockets and make it a public debt new. With a public debt management company, in democratic terms, social conditions, which will remain the property of the citizens, not the companies. Are you enough to tell us that you have taken care of the vulnerable, those who have an income below EUR 7 000, because they will be able, after having lost their home, to rent it for ten years and then, if they ever find the opportunity to repay it, to what price will they pay it back? At an initial price, as if it were someone else. We are talking about houses, which live in the hands of the citizens, which stop auctioning, stop running interest and repayments, get tired of loans, and when citizens can pay them, and until then pay a rent, which is set by social criteria and clearly does not exceed a third of their income. What is happening in other countries. We are asking you to legislate on something that solves the social problem, not to multiply it, not to throw the citizens into the Caucasus. But I want to talk about something else now. We have recently heard from SYRIZA that it is in favour of protecting the first residence. We ask again and again at every opportunity if SYRIZA withdraws to a future government if the plan "HRAKLIS" is abolished. We didn't get an answer until yesterday. And today, when this was repeated, SYRIZA gave an answer. So we hear what this answer is from the Minority rapporteur, who of course expresses the political leadership of SYRIZA. SYRIZA is with "HRAKLE" under strict supervision - to see what these conditions are - the banking system and the managers, the servicers. So SYRIZA learned that it is with HERAKLE in terms and determine it even more when it comes to corporate loans, loans it gave to borrowers or low collateral loans, regardless of whether the borrowers are sound. We are not in favour of HARAKEL, when it concerns vulnerable borrowers and is implemented without protection of first residence. Evidently, SYRIZA is with “HRAKLE” as SYRIZA himself legislated in 2018 for the complete release of sales of red loans to the funds, abolishing the last ban on the transfer of loans related to the first residence. But here he tells us something else. He says to us: "I am also with the funds and with the liquidation, but at the same time I am with the borrowers and the protection of the first residence. And with the imbecile and the victim! Let's see, really, who SYRIZA is with. Let us assume that what SYRIZA says is true and declares the protection of the first residence without abolishing the 'HRAKLE'. Because that's what you're telling us. What does that mean? You have legislated that there may be no protection of the first residence and that the loans should go, as the New Democracy then legislated 'HRAKLE', in the funds, in the services, as you say. And after you legislated this, you've given them and given them guarantees of 12 billion from our pockets in case something goes wrong. Are you saying that now you will forbid them to sell the first residences that are already in their hands? And what will they do? Will you give them the 12 billion dollars? Is that what you're gonna do? Of course you will give them, based on the 'HRAKLE' that you will not abolish, will these red loans not remain in their hands again? So, who are you mocking at? You want to say that you will protect the first residence without abolishing the "HRAKLE". You want to say that you won't protect the first residence, you just put real mirrors on the natives. That's what you're doing. What you don't want to see is this framework donate by lenders. You want to be the good kids of the lenders. As another rapporteur said, their pillow, their alternative after New Democracy. You don't want to overthrow this. You're oppositioning to the point where you don't overthrow how good you guys are with lenders. We, as Mera25, have not come here to manage the debt prison better. We won't be better prisoners. We are not competing with who is the best prisoner in here, in a society that is currently losing its homes, losing its business, losing its shores. You are currently selling - both governments, but obviously ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy - the beaches of Thesprotia and you are about to sell with the port agencies of each region all the coasts of Greece, which, because they were public port agencies, were managed by them. You also give all the mountain peaks to the five RES contractors. You give all the public space to the metropolitan parks that become casinos. And now, after you get all the space from the citizens, you take them and their home so they don't have any right, no choice but to give in to the farm. That's the point. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] We represent the society that sees their homes coming out in the hammer. We have not legitimised this debate you are having here, where between cheese and pears you decide to lose their homes. We have not even legitimised it by our negative vote in committee. We're not doing this now. But can I tell you something? We won't even be involved in this process, which you all sit down talking about as if it were another bill how tens of thousands of citizens lose their homes. "But it doesn't matter. It will go through this as well and for us there will be a dome," many think in here. We call on any member of the Anti-Population Parliament still has his conscience alive, has contact with his heart, has a sense of his or her historical responsibility, and he feels in fact left to leave the Chamber right now with us. We're leaving.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u16	We continue with the speakers. We are entering the first circle of speakers with Mr. Konsola Emmanuel from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u17	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, an interesting debate is taking place today at the National Representation which draws conclusions for the sake of the great issue that concerns both Greek society, that is, the issue of value added tax and the debate on adaptation and incorporation into Greek legislation of relevant directives and regulations. In Greek society there is no selective memory, and with great interest we have heard fellow Members, rapporteurs from all parties, but this report wakes up memories, because since 2015 this section of colleagues had been placed in a public position on the issue of value added tax and other provisions of course. And because for the Greek society, however, it has been a long time since the dilemma phase and has matured since either the ten-year crisis, either from the pandemic, from the collapse of tourism and the economy - the Greek society has matured - workers, professionals, businessmen have been in the realism phase and it is very useful for it to go through the realism phase and the Accurate Opposition, as well as other political factors from various parties. It is clear that there are no easy solutions anymore. Solutions and promises cannot be submitted by this Step, because they have now gone into history that easy solutions have been found close to legs, Minister, especially when they met the crash in the face of reality, when the easy solutions that some promise have turned into painful measures. That's why I say we invoke our collective memory when we're on the opposite bank and unfortunately, the reality works at the turn that we're experiencing today. So you understand that special attention is needed when it comes to the real economy and, above all, to red loans. I say this because from my own country, the Dodecanese, we experience parameters of the Greek economy due to bad policies from the previous government. For the debts are not written off and are not given up. These could be said by some in 2014 and believe them. Today, however, no citizen can believe any of us, when his rhetoric is in an earlier phase, which politics and policies have been judged. The HERAKLIS programme aimed at limiting red loans because there is quite simply no banking system and no economy can operate when 50% of the loans are not served. Within the first year of operation of the programme, red loans decreased by 32 billion euros. Significant index. Let me just remind you that in June 2019 red loans exceeded EUR 75 billion. Minister, correct me if I'm wrong. But I am making this report because it is worth saying that, in the way that the banking system is relieved of an unbearable burden, gains sustainability, capital adequacy and above all prospects. This is what we need today, the next day, the post-COVID era. Now, however, it must finance the real economy and especially small businesses, considering that the backbone of the Greek economy is these small businesses. The management and reduction of red loans is carried out within the European framework with small discrepancies, the model being applied to other countries, and I do not honestly understand, and I and many of my colleagues, the rhetoric colleagues from the field of Officerial Response to the purchase of the loans from these funds, which was established by the SYRIZA - ANEL Government. I would like to remind you, Mr President, that the then Minister for Economic Affairs, Mr Stathakis, who is also responsible for the SYRIZA government programme - and this was of particular value - had mentioned the positive role of special funds from the Stepping of the House, saying that the management of red loans by companies active in the secondary market gives greater flexibility and widens the scope for favourable restructuring of loans. And that's remarkable. I make Mr Stathakis' report in the minutes. It is worth remembering, because it is extremely timely today. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Emmanuel Konsolas, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] From there on, the government is being controlled for the fact that it did not give the right to borrowers themselves to buy their own obligations, their own debt obligations, their loans, as do the funds. Accordingly, the New Democracy Government must create a hybrid and special HERAKLIS programme for the red loans of cooperative banks and let me know quite a lot about this, because in my region there was the Dodecanese Bank, a major development city in the area on a national basis, apart from others. So I repeat that at this time we should consider setting up, setting up a special programme 'HRAKLES' for the red loans of cooperative banks, which were set up with more stringent criteria than systemic banks in terms of repayment time, particularly in terms of repayment time. We currently have a reduction in red loans, thanks to the programme 'HRAKLIS', and the objective of further reduction in one-digit percentages and figures is possible. However, the reduction in the bank's red loans will have a substantial reflection when the banking system again starts financing the real economy, and that is what the government did with the measures it took during the pandemic period. From now on, however, it must do so with a great deal of help to the people of the market, workers, professionals and entrepreneurs, because it needs it in terms of the competitive pretext in relation to our neighbourhood. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The "HRAKLIS" programme was the government response to the issue of the reduction of red loans with visible results, no one disputes this. Because the previous period of time has been to hide the problem or to move to the future. That's the truth. Put it forward in the future, it does not solve the problem, it does not write off debts. Now what should be done? What is important now, Mr President, is the establishment of the extrajudicial mechanism, the electronic platform for regulating payment in two hundred forty instalments and four hundred twenty instalments, to which companies and households can join with banks and the public. It is important that they can join, ladies and gentlemen, and debts that are not yet late, but debts which are difficult to repay, provided that the debtors have suffered a reduction in their incomes of at least 20%. I consider it important to lay down the provisions of the e-commerce bill, setting out a single European framework for the pricing of VAT in electronic transactions, with VAT paid to the State of the customer, of course, who has ordered and delivered the products. A positive sign, Minister, is the provision of the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, which extends the exemption from rents for the firms affected and in July, which is very important for the tourist regions in particular. These are businesses of culture and sport, which are part of the gyms and are still operating under restrictions. It is true, ladies and gentlemen, that we need a new framework of arrangements for the debts and debts created during the pandemic period. The government has credibility. But also the argument to negotiate with the institutions for a new regulation with an increased number of doses, from the present framework of twenty-four and forty-eight instalments, I think it is a realistic objective. I believe that the National Representation will operate on the basis of logic and criteria, the national interests and the interests of the citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u18	We continue with Mr. Typhoon Alexiadis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. I will make a good reference to the recent representative of the New Democracy in terms of the bill: Look at the massive presence of Members of the New Democracy in the Chamber to understand the support of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group in the Chamber. A New Democracy MEP only came in after the seven-minute period, but this is about you, it's not about us. As far as this bill is concerned, now look at the policing policy that you are trying to commit. Because you can't do it. A policing policy why? You bring in a bill which has a place that we are positive, the first part, and which you have posted in the consultation and which has been discussed on this subject. It is incorporating directives, no sensible person could disagree, even though you in the past - you will listen to this for twenty years, as long as my memorial allows me to keep saying it to my public speech - even though you in the past, in similar cases, have been in the bars and have denounced SYRIZA on these issues. So you brought in the first place consultation. Why didn't you bring in the second part of the party concerning HERAKLIS and the rest of the party? What were you afraid of? You fear dialogue with society. You're afraid of revealing real problems. Fear what the details are and what the dark points are, which you do not want to show. So you only consulted for five days and came after the bill in committee and four meetings took place. We on the left are in favour of substantive dialogue and not of pre-standard, not formalities, not this hypocrisy, not ties, costumes, great words. This is the House. It's supposed to be serious, but it's not about the substance of dialogue at all. We are in favour of real dialogue. What, though, did you, who moved our finger for the right legacy, telling us the various important and great things? The bill, forty-two articles, two hundred and twenty-four pages, ended in committee the day before yesterday. This concerns, Mr President, the Bureau of Parliament. Because if the Bureau of Parliament is confined to timing the Members' speeches - that is to be done - but if that is the role of the Bureau of Parliament, there are serious questions about the functioning of the House. Yesterday, then, you who gave us lessons of good legacy and swinging our finger, brought us six amendments from 16 a.m. to 20 a.m. of a total of ministries with twenty-four articles and two-four pages and you will bring us here to vote on a few of these issues. However, I shall refer to this at another point in my speech, because we do not get through everything now. As far as the draft law on HERAKLES is concerned, which, of course, we as SYRIZA have opened up the issue, we are at any time daringly available - because you do not dare as a New Democracy - either in this House or in any pro-government media from what you are going out of your own and say the various triumphantly, to have a public debate. What did we receive from December 31, 2014, what did we deliver in 2019? What did you do before 2014, what are you doing now? If you dare dialogue either in the House or elsewhere. Mr. Zavvos is away. He had a tight look at the technocrat's costume and decided that the Committee on Economic Affairs should wear the party strain costume. From your place it comes, your party clerk was, we don't question his party origin, but he shook our fingers in the committee and told us things. He accused SYRIZA and invited us to make a brief statement. I put the question, and when he comes here - I imagine - to speak today, to answer us. What did Mr. Zavvos say as a political person, as a technocrat for those who led the country to disaster by 2010? What did he say about what happened in the economy between 2010 and 2014? As an expert in the banking system, what did he say about the New Democracy - PASOK loans? Is this a proper operation of the banking system? He asked for an account and said to the committee 'those who speak safely, ignore the difficulty of the negotiations we have had'. Nah, did Mr. Zavvos get that? Can I remind him from his party that some people were called "German Crown"? Let me remind him that some of his party who are cut off for the hundred doses for both the hundred and twenty doses for the two-five instalments in the 2015 referendum - not fifty years ago - those who were in favour of 'yes' are those who wanted the 100 doses that we had voted on a few months ago. So they remember only a few things. It also says below in the speech of "Greek taxpayer to be protected from the denial of red loans which has contributed to at least a decade of the Greek economy. Who's to blame for this? The length of the SYRIZA government's term of office in which, despite receiving white paper, we made a series of important interventions and gave a solution to this issue, did not come out of a first residence in a people's neighborhood that meets specific needs in auctioning? However, because he criticised us and by waving our finger he said that we have not seen a specific costly realistic proposal from SYRIZA, we as a bank expert, ask him: Will he or she implement the proposal of social and productive actors, adopted by SYRIZA, and have we repeated many times for a special professional account? He'll do that he forgot about it in his denture, but we'll remind him all the time. But what is the picture? I replicate from the euro2day.gr, not from a leftist or strange website to tell us that I say strange things "a rapid increase of 275% of red tax debt in May". From EUR 84 million in May 2020, EUR 315 million in May 2021. In the five-month period the due date reached EUR 2,64 billion from EUR 2.3 billion in 2020 and the debtors for whom you were shed crocodile tears on SYRIZA - for the seizures of accounts, etc. - In May 2021, a million three hundred thousand debtors had bank accounts confiscations. There is the situation on your own responsibility. Last item in the press release of the Piraeus Chamber of Commerce, not by the SYRIZA Prefectural Organisation of Piraeus, which, among other things, quite rightly states ‘the rate of rejection of business loans has increased’. In the first quarter of 2021, at a net level, 8% of the banks reported an increase in the share of credit applications rejected for loans to enterprises, while it was 2% in the previous quarter. You baptize this success. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, as far as the issues of the bill are concerned, because of the limited period of time, with only one mention on which I am confused and requesting the Ministry of Finance or the Members present here with legal knowledge to explain to us. Because you know everything, you make everything perfect in the country, etc. He said in his speech of 8 July in the Committee on Economic Affairs “other than the auctions have been released horizontally since February 2019”. There has been no protection of the first residence since February 2019. We heard him, we were sad, we said: 'Which, I say, what was what SYRIZA did'. But by looking for our papers, what do we see? On 22 October 2020, the then representative of the New Republic, Mr Buga, said ‘the main residence was fully and fully protected until 31 December 2014’. Also - because we searched more of our papers - on page 100 fifty three of the bill in the regulation analysis, the Ministry of Finance states: "The first home protection established under that law expired on 28 February 2020". Finally, as the Ministry of Finance, get serious, answer these issues and, above all, stop propaganda. Give answers!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u20	Mr. Loverdos has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, before I enter the subject of today's debate in this House, which is carrying out its legislative work, I would like to make two points about compulsory vaccination. Minister, from this step in November I have been talking about the need for compulsory vaccination of special categories - first and foremost, before all health - and you come after too many months to make the relevant decisions, which are not complete. You had your fear, the first cause that took you back and the second alibi, some argument about supposedly unconstitutionality expressed by a professor, but who is illusory, has proved to be unsatisfactory, so that a government can follow it and at last after too many months you are changing politics. However, here we are at the National Representation. The National Representation does not know whether it will be invited to contribute, adopting an amendment that will facilitate this policy. I don't know. I know, however, that the National Representation cannot be majority positive and have Members who have not been vaccinated. Mr President, I would ask you to convey to the President of this House the strong protest of the speaker, because it is not acceptable - it is reasonably unacceptable - at this step and on these terms of speaking to raise people who have not been vaccinated and who have no medical problem prohibiting their vaccination. Because if there is something like that, of course, there should be a solution. However, it must be decided that anyone who has not been vaccinated, while the House sends a message of vaccination and adopts compulsory measures, will speak from their home or office. He won't talk from here. It is unacceptable that there cannot be a Member - I do not know either one, nor one of those who have not been vaccinated, I do not personalise, I speak in my view and in common sense - who speaks from this Step or from the Step forward of the committees and has not been vaccinated, there is no reason why they should not be vaccinated and Parliament should look at or look at it. Please very much this mess, the dangerous mess - and symbolically problematic - to stop. The second issue related to vaccinations is that I get daily protests - the last one is on Sunday from Pefki in northern Evia - that people have a great deal of trouble in vaccinating. The distance that separates them from the nearest vaccination center is many hours. They've opened up their stores, their jobs, they're trying to get a piece of money after the difficulties they've experienced in the past few months and they're not being vaccinated because they're not easy. It is incomprehensible even today to delay this vaccination program through vaccination workshops that can help our citizens, assist the citizen in this need for a freedom struggle that most Greeks, most Greek women, have. As far as the government is concerned, the delays, the procrastination and the phobia - I am tabling them for months - are facts. I cannot understand her pluralism in this regard. It is characteristic of yesterday's delegation from PASOK, which I did not understand if it ultimately questions the validity of the vaccine, with what elements and I did not understand how the Acoustic Opposition on this issue could be polyphony. I do not want to give any more specific examples. I give yesterday that is really very strange. They must understand the parties at least that belong to Anti-Policy, especially the largest which is the Civic Opposition, that a party's democracy is not a functional democracy. The place needs a progressive protagonist opposition force. The progressive protagonist is missing. We're a small party. The big party, however, is far from there. When the government says 'a' that's what it says 'e'. At a time when it is not the time of the memorials, we are in the middle of a pandemic after three memorials, citizens require moderation, efficiency and usefulness in the expression of the speech. Now, as far as the draft law is concerned, I want to remind you of something. Minister, I do not know if you had been involved in discussions in the House on this matter by supplementing your colleague or Minister. But the debate on the possible solutions to the great problem of the Greek economy that is red loans - it is not the banking problem, it is a problem of the economy in general - has been tabled by many, it is enough. And with a bar of solutions Greece can fight this problem. You are also showing from the speeches I have heard and from what I have read from the committee to say that the reduction in red loans has been made by the programme 'HERAKLIS'. That's a lie. The reduction in red loans was made by three policies. It has been done by HERAKLIS, through sales of the loans - and the sales of the loans and arrangements are the largest instrument so far in the figures and data available - and, of course, by a very small degree of relief. This is a matter for us - and our rapporteur, our parliamentary representative, Mr Katrinis, has said it several times, I have heard it when I was a parliamentary representative - that there is a dimension between you and the Bank of Greece. The Bank of Greece does not agree that the only means to combat the problem of red loans is the HERAKLIS programme. It has proposed the so-called 'bad bank'. I know from the report, but also from my own investigation that the European Central Bank supports this instrument, which the Government refuses you. The Deputy Prime Minister presented the 'bad bank's 'bad bank' solution as a more accurate solution to the 'HRAKLI' solution. The evidence is backwards. The most accurate is the solution of the 'ERACHI'. And there is also the study of deferred taxation submitted by the Bank of Greece. The government has it in her hands. He's signing a house perfectly reliable. It is the 'Rothschild Boston Consulting and Deloitte'. You know that. And the government insists on the 'HERAKLE'. You need to clear things up. You need to see them as long as it's taken two years that the House has been discussing this issue. We have a new period of time today, with the intervention of a new eighteen months, but the information you have given this House is not what you have promised. And I repeat, it is a lie to say, to claim that the red loans have been reduced through HARAKLE. The evidence is flawing you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you for the time, Mr. Loverdos. We continue with Mr Manosos Voloudakis from New Democracy. He's not here. We are invited to continue with Ms Papanatsiou from SYRIZA and Mr Voloudakis will be here. Here you go, Mrs. Papanatsiou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are discussing a bill which is essentially composed of different parties. It creates another multi-project. Is it obvious that such bills without linking them clearly demolish dialogue and co-modulation, but when did you care about the co-modulation? So we have the correct incorporation of Community provisions in respect of the obligations arising from VAT on the provision of services and distance selling of goods. We have the amendment of No 4649/2019, namely the 'HERAKLIS' programme and we have the amendment of No 4738/2020 to provide the second opportunity. Let's make an effort to get them in line. In the first part, we have the VAT directive on e-commerce. The new legislation aims to adapt the VAT system to the explosive development of online transactions between businesses and consumers. The new VAT rules promote a new framework for the compliance of online sales within the single market of the European Union with VAT. The basic rule of the Vat E - Commerce Package is that the place of consumption in e-commerce of VAT is the place of consumption. The part of the directive seems to have been carefully monitored so that it does not create dissatisfaction. Here, of course, there is a need for attention and a follow-up to secondary legislation to which several articles are referred. We then have the extension of the HERAKLIS project, a programme that you are proclaiming has succeeded, but as we see from the debate, its objectives have not been achieved, hence the extension. You have not answered what the financial cost of your project is. The question that arises is whether guarantees of 12 billion have already been given and that further 12 billion guarantees are to be added, or whether you are simply prolonging the programme because of the delay in submitting the proposals. Minister Zavvos spoke twenty minutes at the last meeting to tell us that we do not have a plan. The opposition is continuing in opposition. You're tired of us, and we're tired of the civilians. And proposals we have and tabled are. It's another thing if your proposals are causing reactions, failing, so you really have to say something, throwing the ball on the platform. We also note that the failure to achieve the objectives of the operational plans of the services is entirely linked to the default of the guarantees, which, on the basis of Article 13, comes after fifty days of non-payment. How successful, ladies and gentlemen of the government, so far has the ERAKLI programme been? How guaranteed is the State from the possible fall in guarantees? Does not non-compliance with these objectives pose a risk to public funds? We're waiting for your answers. I'm coming to the last part of the bill now. Firstly, it raises concerns about what the provision of equalisation between contenders and guarantors serves. The inclusion of the guarantor in the concept of conspiracy in our opinion poses risks. In particular, it is going to be aware of the phenomenon that banks face the guarantor as a protagonist, claiming at the same time all their demands. Secondly, the combination of Articles 32 and 38 also creates a question. In fact, you describe a procedure whereby creditors may be given the opportunity if the debtor is in a position to agree, to draw up, approve and ratify a resolution agreement on their own, without the consent of the debtor, without any responsibility, criminal or civil, for their signature. A debtor, in other words, is to be personally bound by a plan drawn up by the creditors, without his or her involvement and opinions, without even being able to change if he or she cannot follow it. That is unacceptable. Honestly, you cross your line every time. Your analgesia comes from your perception of the class formation of society. A man who has experienced the difficulties in repayment, and has also experienced the agreement with financial institutions, would never legislate this disgrace, nor would the bankruptcy code and the lifting of the protection of first residence. Here, I really want to note something. The Minister has come to the committees to tell us that the first residence has ceased to be protected in SYRIZA. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Alexiades told you before and I will repeat it myself: look at what you see everywhere in SYRIZA. It's not going to be right for you. Ask your previous Chief. Mr. Minister says more about the bill and more about the Step. He knows that the explanatory statement of the bill will not be seen by the citizens and obviously not by the media. So let's see what the explanatory statement in your bill says: on page fifty three, in Articles 34 to 39, it says precisely: 'The protection of first residence ended on 28 February 2020'. That's it. Nothing but me. In conclusion, I would like to say that we have a self-sufficient government, a government which has no contact with the reality of the people of this country. Instead of blackmailing citizens, instead of moving the burden of your own failed, but willing choices, we propose that you change the Rotta, get serious, discuss together how to get out of point zero that you brought us back. You celebrate for the Recovery Fund. We do not forget, however, that you did not ask for any advice on this, nor on the opposition, nor on the part of the institutions. On the day that you organized the prestige in Plaka, EUROSTAT happened to have an investigation showing that two out of three young people in three to thirty-four years lived in the home. So let us talk about the Recovery Fund, about who and what is not about. You cannot celebrate the data on unemployment among young people and young people, which, based on the measurement of EUROSTAT, gives us a dynamic and embarrassing first time with 38.2%. Again, let us continue to talk about the Recovery Fund and who and what is not concerned. You are the most divisive and irreversible government. Honestly, you cannot celebrate anything when we are faced with more than three thousand cases every day, July. The only solution to the problems of the world is your overthrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. Mr Voloudakis has the floor from New Democracy. Mr Papapas will be followed by the New Democracy and immediately after the Greek Parliamentary Representative. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the fact that I have just come down to the step has said a phrase which I, too, can call as a member of the Co-Population, so that I can have a different result. We didn't get - he says - the advice of the Opposition to negotiate the issues of the Recovery Fund. Indeed, the truth is the experience and memories of SYRIZA’s negotiations with the institutions. We have achieved without this advice EUR 31 billion and one of the first approvals by the Commission. We'll be able to do that without the advice. Tell the Greek people that as an argument: they have not taken our advice on the Recovery Fund. I come to the bill and, in particular, to its part concerning the 'ERAKLIS' project, which I think is the most important one today. The project "HRAKLIS" intended to relieve banks of their red loans so that they could then perform their role in the normal operation of the economy. The plan has achieved its special purpose. The success or otherwise of such projects is judged in the fund. To date, EUR 31 billion is the value of the red loans covered by the ‘HRAKLE’ securitisation process. As the Deputy Minister of Finance informed us in committee, there are already applications for another EUR 4 billion. Therefore, extending the duration of the project we are discussing today is correct, since the market to which we are addressing is convinced and responds. However, the objective of the "ERAKLIS" project achieved is not an end in itself. The final purpose of a series of policies, part of which is HARAKLIS, is to reopen the mechanisms with which the real economy is financed, mechanisms which have not been effective for over ten years, as is known. Have we achieved this larger target? The truth is we still have a long way to go. The money raised by the Greek systemic banks by the European Central Bank at negative rates due to the pandemic, due to the measures against pandemic, is EUR 47 billion, with negative interest rates. In addition, we have strengthened their liquidity by increasing deposits between January 2020 and April 2021 by EUR 24 billion. In other words, in this period, we had an additional amount of around EUR 71 billion available. One of these, according to an interview from the Governor of the Bank of Greece, went about 5 billion euros in the real economy. I would like to add that, especially for small and medium-sized enterprises, two thirds of what money took was through the Greek Development Bank's programmes, with public guarantees. It is easy to draw to the wrong conclusions with the elements of this period, because it has to make many advances. I am not going to go into this procedure now, because of time. One might see a slight increase in credit expansion, but it is a percentage initially, so it does not show reality, especially given what happened with the payment suspensions, etc. The point is they don't take the money to the real economy. Fortunately, at the same time the Ministry of Finance substituted, to some extent, the banking system with repayable advances. I do not want to imagine what the market would be like today without the programme of repayable advances. Therefore, the banks do not channel to the real economy the money they have received. What are they doing with them? Mostly they buy government bonds. They can be limited to that because they have no competition. They are an oligopoly protected from the state over a period of time. Long time! The 'first time on the left', which would change the world, did absolutely nothing on this subject. So, in order for the banks to make profits, they don't have to go after the client, just to say it. What does the state have to do? Two things. Firstly, the Competition Committee should be enabled to check any illegal cartels between the banks. Secondly, we should remove the protectionist arrangements. I shall mention two simple practical examples. Factoring: In developed economies there are a number of non-bank and online platforms that compete with banks to finance claims. Not in Greece. Why? Because in Greece if someone wants to build such a company, they will have to undergo an authorisation procedure the same as that of banks, as if they were taking statements from the world, i.e., for no reason. Therefore, few people can raise these costs if they are not banks, so there is no competition in the banks. Secondly, the recent legislation on microfinance institutions. The operation of such non-banking institutions, which has recently been established, could drastically facilitate the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises, those outside the banking sector today. However, here too, too, the very heavy licensing and supervision procedures, the ban on the taking of safeguards also increase unnecessarily the cost of operating such undertakings, thus becoming unsustainable. That is why there has been no market interest in setting up microfinance institutions. I mean from the real market, not from the various NGOs, which, perhaps, also look at various forms of state guarantees which are again being heard. No more state guarantees. Let me point out that there is now another category of overprotected enterprises in the financial sector, the services, the companies, namely, the management of loans, such as those provided for in the HERAKLIS project and its prolongation. Article 26 of the bill, by repeating the existing law, specifies what will happen in the event that a manager fails to ensure that the payments he has contractually undertaken to make to the bondholders, so that the guarantee of the State is repaid. So what happens in this case, if, that is, if the administrator fails? It would be reasonable to have specific consequences or even to replace, in fact, public guarantees. But what does the law provide for? It shall only be replaced by the administrator if the failure is due to its own ‘stap’. I put it in quotes to use the unfortunate wording of the law anyway. In other words, it will not suffer any consistency, because it is not precisely how it is assessed to see the "pig" and, in any case, it is almost impossible to prove fault. Our economy is suffering from the presence and operation of overprotected oligopolistic sectors that restrict overall competitiveness. Let's not create any more. I believe, Minister, that you have already done a very important job in the area of the resolution of the financial system in general. But we also need to take a step further, to correct what is the distortions and pathogens that come to us over the past decades, to break eggs, to ensure conditions of competition in the financial sector, so that, in the end, the real economy and especially small and medium-sized enterprises can be adequately financed. Only in this way will the coarse, in fact, of the money that has been guaranteed to deal with the effects of the pandemic, create productive investment and jobs, that is, prosperity for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u26	Thank you to Mr Voloudakis for the time. As we said, Mr. Ioannis Pappas from New Democracy and immediately thereafter the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution. Mr. Kegeroglu will speak twenty-first instead of tenth. Here, Mr. Pappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my position, you will allow me to refer to a happy event, which I hope will be an example of the future of the Dodecanese and Greece. A few days ago a baby came to the world in Halki, on the wonderful island of Halki. A birth would not be a news story, but it is the first child's birth on the remote island of Halki, on the island of Dodecanese, after fifty years. After I wish the child and his parents were healthy and happy, I would like to underline the following: It is a duty for all of us here to promise this little child that we will do everything in our power so that life in Halki, but also in all the smaller Aegean islands, it is not something difficult and we can also give other people the opportunity to create their families there. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing today the draft law of the Ministry of Finance, which regulates issues relating to the everyday life and life of citizens. The possibility of applying VAT for distance purchases is widened. During the pandemic the markets remotely by sending parcels became a daily habit to all of us. However, there were cases where tax evasion and avoidance phenomena occurred when small packages were imported. As you can see, the amendments introduced by the draft law of the Ministry of Finance are a necessity both to secure revenues for our state and to equalise the Greek operators who pay VAT. The improvements to the HERAKLIS programme aim, on the one hand, to reduce red loans and, on the other, to improve the balance sheet of our banks. Be careful, the restructuring of the banking sector is not an end in itself, but it is directly linked to the restoration of their real role: support for the economy, from a simple household to small and medium-sized enterprises, the big companies, which is the backbone of our economy. The third pillar of the draft law relates to debt arrangements and is valuable because it brings together all the tools to regulate debts that have arisen over the years. The reason is to try to address the economic weakness faced by natural or legal persons. Our aim is to get out of the pandemic crisis citizens and businesses to have all the tools at their disposal so that, firstly, they have sound economics and, secondly, procedures to be simple and not dashing as they have been in recent years. Ladies and gentlemen, this is not a lightning lightning, but it is part of a coherent policy of the Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis from the first day that took over the rule of the country and especially during the treatment of the pandemic. This time we're having pandemic. The government has spent 41 billion euros to support the economy and those affected. The programme to support the Greek economy includes a number of measures such as: Seven cycles of repayable advance. Up to now 8.26 billion euros have been allocated to over six hundred thousand businesses and free traders. Conversion rates for households and businesses in respect of tax and insurance liabilities. VAT rebates on products and services. Expansion of unemployment benefits. Coverage of company loans, reduction of rents in companies that were and remain closed and 80% of the rent paid to the owners of the real estate by the State. Suspension of cheque payments and provision of facilities for seventy-five days. Reduction of tax advances, reduction of social security contributions by private sector employees and 2022 by 3%. Suspension of the Special Contribution of Solidarity in the private sector and in 2022. All these measures have had and have the effect of the Greek economy withholding the consequences of this unprecedented pandemic, which has affected the international community and, as it seems, will continue to follow us for a long time. Evidence of the work done by our Government is the recent report that came out, FCU, which brings Greece to the ten most attractive countries in Europe for investment and ranks it in the 20th place of direct foreign investment in Europe for 2020, with an increase of 70%, from the twenty-nine that was in 2019 and the thirty-fifth that was in 2018. Now, using all available resources, such as the Recovery Fund and the NSRF, we are shaping and planning Greece so that our economy returns to strong growth rates. The government shows that it is facing the problems that arise daily with the amendments, which have been incorporated into the draft law. There is an extension during professional leases, as well as an extension to the exemption of leases for enterprises that remain closed because of the pandemic. Inside it is the gyms. At another level, we must not forget that the necessary decisions are taken to continue building yet another rapid patrol-directional missiles of the Navy and to complete work on submarines. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Minister, Mr Minister, Mr Ministers, in closing I will be allowed to deal with an issue that is vital to my constituency. Minister, we will have the honour of having you on Monday at the meeting in Rhodes on this very important subject, which you have heard and heard, because for us it is a primary issue. The permanentisation of reduced VAT by 30% through an amendment by the Government in Kos and Lero is a move which undoubtedly moves in the right direction. It restores an injustice that has been holding since 2015 and has widely signed your signature, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. But is that enough? The answer is: 'No, until the reduced rates come back to all the islands of the Dodecanese'. Reduction of VAT can be made incrementally starting from Kalymnos and the very small islands. Kalymnos, as you all know, lies between Kos and Leros. The result is to deal with a question of unfair competition between two islands where reduced tax rates already apply. Together we could incorporate the very small islands, such as Agathonisi, Arkis, Marathi, Leipzig, Pserimos, Telendos and Patmos, which have a huge geopolitical value and their inhabitants keep the border of our country and have a difficult time, especially in the winter season. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute and I'll be done, Mr. President. In a second phase and when the budgetary authorities, Minister, will allow the reduced rate of taxation to be extended to the whole of the Dodecanese and to the whole region of the South Aegean. The Kastelorizo complex is a special case that requires even more bold solutions. But let's start with the simplest. As daring as it may sound, it is necessary and we must do so. At a time when there is a closeness of economics to our locusts, we need to hierate their daily lives from any tax revenue that may exist for the state. After all, whatever we multiply with zero, the result will be zero again. So let's change the multiplier. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you. Mr. Heta, the Minister of Finance, Mr. Stagiras, has asked for the floor because he was in a meeting with the institutions and wants to take the floor. Please allow the Minister to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u29	Of course, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u30	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much, Mr President. I apologise to colleagues. I just have started discussions with the institutions today and I have a short break to come to the House and continue. However, I also wanted to be consistent in the plenary, in the bill, despite the fact that both responsible Secretarys of State will be placed for provisions in both the draft law and its amendments. Ladies and gentlemen, the Treasury continues its reform work under conditions of high uncertainty as a result of the coronary pandemic. In fact, these conditions make the need for reforms even more urgent in order to improve the economic environment in which citizens, households and businesses are active. Its improvement will initially lay the foundations for strong recovery and then for sustainable development. To this end, the prior approval of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan by the Finance Ministers of the European Union will make a decisive contribution. This development is the culmination of the hard, long-term and systematic work done by the entire government in order to present a mature and ambitious plan and to ensure the conditions for the optimum and rapid exploitation of the recovery fund resources. And today's announcement by the Ministry of Finance about the first twelve projects is proof of this. The total resources amount to EUR 30.5 billion - more than EUR 1 billion is one of those announced today - of which the first EUR 4 billion is expected to be disbursed after the previous decision to disburse directly. At the same time, however, with the positive developments that are coming from Europe, we continue our legislative work at an uninterrupted rate. We are taking important initiatives to tackle increased and growing challenges, as well as chronic problems of the past, such as the success we had in the Scaramaga competition. At the same time, we are making the necessary reforms to create, as I have said, the conditions for recovery and growth of the economy. In this context, the Ministry of Finance introduces to the Greek Parliament this draft law, which achieves these objectives. We are talking about a draft law which incorporates tax reforms, as it adds to national law provisions of Community directives concerning obligations arising from value added tax for services and distance selling. For all this, and for the tax amendment, it is well placed and the Minister responsible, Mr Besiropoulos, will again be placed. In addition, the draft law amends basic points of the Greek State guarantee scheme to securitisations of credit institutions with a view to reducing non-performing loans under the name ‘HRAKLIS’. In this section, too, it has been well placed in committee - and it will be repeated in plenary - the responsible State Secretary, Mr Zavvos. The success of the programme, which is estimated to contribute actively to the reduction of the non-performing loan ratio, has led to the need for an extension of more than eighteen months and up to the maximum amount of guarantees of EUR 12 billion. A feature of the programme's success is that red loans in the last 12 months have been reduced by 15 billion euros or 24% and from the start of this governance have been reduced by 28 billion euros or 37%. Ladies and gentlemen, the third part of the bill under discussion contains an update of the institutional framework for regulating debts and providing a second chance for natural and legal persons. It is attempting to clarify issues that have dealt with the law's implementation and procedures are laid down for the protection of borrowers. It is also intended to supplement the relevant legislative framework in that, despite the preparation of all the necessary ministerial decisions and during the implementation of the infrastructures for the implementation of the new law, specific issues were identified in need of supplements. I would like to mention here that during the last few days in the debate on the draft law in committee some issues have been raised, many of which have been answered. However, there are some loose ends on the part of the Ministry of Finance's political leadership and I had committed myself to supplementing my position, having received the relevant information. First, it was reported that the online platform of the out-of-court settlement mechanism does not work. The reality is that the platform of the Private Debt Special Secretariat has been operating normally since June 1st, that the new extrajudicial mechanism has been in place and accepts requests. Proof of this is that until yesterday twenty-six thousand nine hundred forty-six single VDUs have so far applied on the electronic out-of-court settlement mechanism platform, of which eighteen thousand five hundred twenty-sixteen unique VDUs have been active, finalized requesting creditors data. At this stage, applications have not been submitted to the financial institutions, because applicants complement data - for example, debts to suppliers - which are not available electronically and inspected, and all the information and supporting documents have already been obtained automatically. Therefore, all applications are in the process of verifying, correcting and supplementing data and supporting documents by creditors. As on all electronic debt regulation platforms, the process of data recovery is asynchronous, i.e. it is not completed on the spot, but requires a few days to recover all data. When the debtors submit their applications, then they will be launched to the financial institutions in order to formulate a proposal to regulate debts within two months. We believe that the first applications will be submitted by the end of July and therefore we will see the first debt arrangements by the end of September. Secondly, in the reflection on how many proposals will be put forward by the banks, this cannot be answered in advance. This is because, in order to provide a proposal for regulation, the financial and assets situation of each debtor through the algorithm is examined, while the existence of deposits in both the domestic financial system and foreign banks is also considered. Finally, the economic data of the contributors and guarantors are also examined. All of this is taken into account for the purpose of formulating a settlement of debt settlement. It has also been considered whether the banks will finally regulate through the extrajudicial procedure. Here I will mention that the institutional framework we have set up, encourages creditors to submit a proposal for regulation to the debtor, as with the institutional framework of Law 4738, and with the provisions that we are promoting today to be voted on, the debtors are able to achieve the overall regulation of all their debts, both by themselves and by their guarantors. And we must remind everyone that many citizens owe banks and the public and according to the law, the state, i.e. the ALAF and the ECA, is always obliged to provide a settlement of debts, which is an active contribution to the uniform regulation of all debts of the debtor. Third, it was reported that the banks do not regulate the loans with the guarantee of the Greek State. The reality is that the provisions that we bring to the vote are aimed at here. In other words, we define clearly that they can be regulated through the extrajudicial mechanism and the loans guaranteed by the Greek State. In fact, we are also establishing the necessary legal barriers through which banks are encouraged to regulate the loans guaranteed by the Greek public sector. This is how we solve a chronic problem, which employs a large number of natural persons and businesses. Ladies and gentlemen, in addition to these provisions, two amendments of the Ministry of Finance have been tabled in this draft law. The relevant Secretarys will be placed on them. I would like to make one point about the amendment on state aid following the natural disaster. In its resolution No 4797/2021 the Ministry of Finance proceeded with the creation of a comprehensive, coherent framework for grants to enterprises affected by natural disasters, so as to allow the restoration of normality in the economic life of the firms affected, as well as in the local communities as soon as possible. The provisions of the amendment provide, inter alia, for: the Ministry of Finance may until 31 December 2021 and by way of derogation from the provisions to conclude a land lease agreement to cover the housing needs of the State Aid Directorate and the Central State Aid Unit. It is foreseen that the aid provided for in respect of state aid to the natural disasters is paid to the beneficiaries by the Ministry of Finance's Directorate-General for Economic Affairs for speed and burden the Ministry's Public Investment Budget. In addition, I would like to repeat, as was our commitment, that by decision of the Minister of Finance of 7 July, the Government's Committee on State Aid on the percentage covered by the grant of the affected company, which was damaged by the 'Janue', was approved. In particular, the rate is 55% of the damage assessed by the relevant committees of the regions affected, taking into account all the support measures that have been allocated to date. Ladies and gentlemen, therefore, with this draft law, the Ministry of Finance promotes tax reforms aimed at strengthening the development process of the Greek economy, ensures the proper functioning of the financial system, in order to achieve a substantial relaunch of the credit expansion and improves the institutional framework for dealing with private debt, so that the conditions for creating new investment opportunities and exploiting inert productive resources of the economy are developed. But the government doesn't stop here. With a view to the future, it continues to implement appropriate policies by making good and effective use of every opportunity available, every resource available, in order to ensure the fastest possible transition of the country to a future of strong, sustainable, extroverted and socially fair growth. We are working hard on this with responsibility, serious and social sensitivity. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from a draft law, however, I would like to make a communication today. The Ministry of Finance from the beginning of the health crisis has been operating quickly reflexing, planning and determination, taking appropriate measures in good time and methodically to minimise the impact of this long, unprecedented test and, on the other hand, speeding up, as I said, the relaunching of the economy after the declining of the health crisis. This is what we are doing firmly and consistently throughout this long-term unfavourable situation, dealing with the extent of pragmatism possible, but in the best way, with the challenges of each phase of pandemic. At the same time, we make it easier for households and businesses affected by the consequences of the crisis to meet their obligations. In this context, since March last year the government's majority made a series of debt-regulatory interventions. I would point out, for example, that the regulation of liabilities for the period March - June 2020. How many doses? At first we said twelve interest-free instalments or twenty-four instalments at an exceptionally low rate. That was the dynamic of the health crisis at the time. Then, seeing how the health crisis is evolving and following extremely responsible strategy and insight into the country's cash reserves, we improved and extended, as you remember, this arrangement last February by doubling the instalments for the same period, in the first phase of pandemic, in twenty-four interest-free instalments or forty-eight instalments at an interest rate of 2.5%. At the same time, as you remember, we suspended payment of the adjusted debts for specific sectors for which restrictive measures were in place every month by transferring payment of the instalments lost at the end of the regulated period, after a hundred, twenty instalments, etc. Operating on the basis of the above principles, today, with an absolute consciousness of the reality and the difficulties that the coronary pandemic has caused in the real economy, we are moving towards a new brave regulation of the tax and insurance debts created in the pandemic in accordance with the institutions that we completed a moment ago. This regulation provides very significant facilities for the debtors affected by the crisis, as it extends, widens and improves the existing framework for the settlement of their debts, while at the same time offering the opportunity to revive earlier arrangements. In particular, with today's speeches: Firstly, we are broadening the scope for debt coverage from March 2020 until today. Until now we have had the first period of the health crisis, namely March to June 2020, now we have March 2020 to July 2021, all affected at this time. Secondly, we are expanding the number of instalments from twenty-four that we had offenders and forty-eight at low interest rates, to thirty-six per sons and seventy-two at low interest rates, giving even greater breath to households and businesses. And thirdly, we are significantly expanding the perimeter of beneficiaries, including all those affected at any time, from March 2020 to today. In particular, current tax obligations, VAT, income tax, HPAI and insurance debts created during the pandemic, from March 2020 until now, will be able to be adjusted to seventy-two instalments at an interest rate of 2,5% or thirty-six instalments off with the first instalment paid in January 2022. This regulation concerns businesses and natural persons affected by the coronary and debts established during the pandemic, I repeat, from March 2020 until today. The categories of debtors subject to the arrangement are as follows: Businesses and self-employed persons classified as affected by SMR by the Ministry of Finance. The expanded list of CAR of April 2020 will be used. It is estimated that eligible SMRs include 78% of the country's enterprises and free trades. Employees whose contract of employment has been temporarily suspended and who have received special purpose compensation or who have joined the programme 'COMPANY WORK'. Property owners who have received a reduced lease on the basis of a COVID declaration. Finally, unemployed people at this time in the OAED. In addition, these debtors who have lost part-payment adjustment, e.g. 100 20 instalments since March 2020 - not for a few months - can revive the arrangement with all benefits, with the payment of the August instalment and the instalments that have not been attributed are transferred at the end of the arrangement. According to the tax authority, the possibility of regulation relates to a hundred and thirty-four thousand four hundred five legal persons, three hundred ninety-two thousand eighty-fifths of natural persons carrying out business activities and two hundred ninety-nine thousand ninety-fifths of natural persons who have created unregulated debts totalling EUR 2,26 billion to the tax administration at this time and belong to the eligible categories of persons affected. With these interventions - and I close - the government has shown once again that it is constantly vigilant, devouring the needs of society and business and taking the best possible initiatives at the appropriate time. All the previous speeches, and today's, show the responsible and socially just policy of our Government, a political prudent that weighs needs and budgetary constraints, because budgetary relaxation does not mean fiscal derailment. It preserves payment culture - I will repeat, preserves payment culture -, aims at rapid and strong recovery and high, sustainable, smart and socially fair growth in the post-Koronian era. This is the great bet that we have in front of us and continue to work with plan, wisdom, unity and determination, we will win. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u32	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u33	Yes, Mr. Pappa, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Stavoura, look at this, we reserve to see the relevant provisions, but we regret to note that we have heard you speak of a culture of payments. Especially at this time in Greece, does the Minister of Finance raise the issue of payment culture as a root of evil for failure to serve the obligations of citizens and businesses? You need to move from that logic. So we will wait to see the order, see the perimeter, look at the conditions. Another comment. There are two "elephants in the room" for which you have not spoken at all. First of all, the Recovery Fund told us that it was agreed and approved. And Mr Mitsotakis came here quickly - quickly this morning - to prevent Tsipras from getting into the Chamber and there is a controversy, and he told us that the Recovery Fund was approved. We have learned from the media that the major issue was the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. You will tell us what happened, what has been divided, what we agreed, where you retreated, where you moved from its original version, in relation to this issue, which is also compatible with today's bill. Thirdly - and I am closing down and thank you for your tolerance, Mr President - the issue of insurance. And don't tell me that you don't have the power, because you've been kicking this into the big financial incident that it is causing, your intention to bring the privatisation of the second pillar of private insurance. What are your intentions? What are you gonna do? Will you bring the bill?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u35	All right, Mr. Pappa. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u36	Mr Colleague, I will repeat in the written text what I said. We are pursuing a politically sound policy that weighs needs and budgetary constraints, which preserves payment culture. I didn't give any responsibility to the citizens. On the contrary, in the last three months, the culture of payments has been excellent and citizens have been consistent with their obligations. What we are saying is, therefore, that we must make policies that preserve the culture of payments, which is why we are also strengthening the consistency with the HERAKLIS programme, which pays the state the instalments of these citizens who are consistent with their obligations, because we want to strengthen the culture of payments. We have not given, and I have not personally given, any responsibility to any citizen, and what we are bringing as regulation facilitates citizens' debts, because it goes to the most brave shape ever in the coronary phase, thirty-six and seventy-two instalments. And with regard to the second part - because the third was completely irrelevant to what we are discussing - the Recovery Fund and what was agreed, we have talked about the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. Clearly, also on the grant side, there are provision for EUR 1.5 billion for direct grants to small and medium-sized enterprises, which ruthlessly goes to EUR 3.5 billion. And obviously, there is the EUR 12.7 billion part of lending that will go to all companies of all sizes, depending on their business plans. And in the near future, the submission of the plan by the government that she made from the first governments in Europe, of the new NSRP for the 2021-2027 programming period - and you know it very well - is mainly aimed at small and medium-sized enterprises. From there on, because I am very honest and open with the opposition, and I want it to have a full picture, as the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance, we have established for the first time in the country for a month, almost every fifteen days a debate with the banks and market operators, so that we can be sure that we are all synchronised, and businesses in the development of projects and banks in the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises and the state in the environment that it creates to attract investment and investment projects. A top issue that has to do with whether it creates incentives to attract investment and, in general, to help society and small and medium-sized enterprises is the taxation of citizens. I urge you all to see the tax declarations that have been submitted so far. Approximately 2.4 million tax statements. All citizens find a much lower tax burden this year as a result of the household relief measures taken by the current government by the reduction in HPAI, a permanent reduction in HPAI, a permanent reduction in the tax advance, a reduction in the tax on company taxation, a permanent reduction in the taxation of enterprises, a reduction in the taxation of natural persons for the lower tax rate from 22% to 9%, a permanent reduction in the tax rate, the abolition of the solidarity levy for 2021 and 2022, the reduction in insurance contributions for 2021 and 2022. These citizens evaluate, because they are not words, they are actions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. We're continuing the process. Please, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you very much, Mr President. Of course, we have another perception of what is happening in society out there about the economy. I'll see you in a bit. He'll be the Undersecretary here. But you will allow me to say this, since the President of this House is here now, and we are shocked about twenty minutes ago with what we have heard from a Member of Parliament, very experienced, constitutionalist, now a dolphin for the position of the leadership of the Change Movement. What did he say from a parliamentary step? Incredible things, Mr President and Mr President-in-Office: not to enter the House and not to have the right to speak in the House to those Members who have not been vaccinated. We've heard that too! In other words, it failed as a Minister of Health, which was shown by the results - you saw what a health system we have! - but did Mr. Loverdos fail as a constitutionalist? Can it be addressed to Greek-elected MPs, representatives of Greek society and propose to the temple of democracy the exclusion of members who have not done the vaccine? Incredible things! And since Mr Tassoulus is here, I will say: so, Mr President, we have to propose this, that the Members of Parliament do not have the right to speak, whose parties owe a shut-up of money and grow up for so many years and change VAT as shirts. Do not have the right to speak to those Members! So once these parties have settled their financial debts to have the right to speak. But are these reasonable things? Are these reasonable things to be heard in the temple of democracy? Don't talk to the MPs who haven't done the vaccine? So if a Member of Parliament is patient and can't do it? If a Member has been ill and has he, by February - a good time - a European certificate? What are we gonna do? Will you shut us up, Mr. Loverdo? Are things that sound in here? All right, coordinated with the policy of the New Democracy, as a dolphin of the PASOK - a movement of change of the next day, gives the mark to the New Democracy with whom it will go hand in hand, but keep the pretexts a little! For God's sake, I mean! Incredible things! Well, this is our proposal: the MPs whose parties owe a lot, 200-300-400 million, change VAT, mock the world. The MPs will not speak. In fact - to go to the economy - Minister, we thought that the New Democracy would really be better in managing the economy - we thought it - than SYRIZA was. Summer night dream! Unfortunately, you have denied not us, but the Greeks who believed you. Even this amendment of the "HRAKLE" aims once again to support the banks and not the Greek citizens. The borrowers are back from the outside. I was listening to Mr. Stavura. We have a completely different image for the economy and what's going on out there. The Minister's right to say what he wants, to do what he believes. He'll be judged too. HERAKLIS is clearly below the expectations of the Greeks. It is only about 40% of red loans. For the remaining 60%, then, we have no idea yet what is going to happen. However, even for this 40%, it is not at all certain that HERAKLIS will be able to clean up. It's time, and I think we should all say this together: That's enough! It is enough with your experiments at the expense of Greek taxpayers. That's enough of your superficiality. That's enough of your curiosity. It is now enough for the superficial treatment of things. Our country's economy doesn't raise any more experimentation. The sacrifices of Greek citizens can't withstand your own destiny. Tell me if there is one in this Chamber or a Greek citizen who is listening now to us who will disagree with what I am about to say. Unfortunately, in this country only if you're a taxboat, only if you're a thief, only if you're a big man won't bother you with the bank. That's where we'll find a solution. We're going to do a brave haircut. What billions? Nothing, you're cleaned! But if you're an honest man, a man of daily life, and you owe a housing loan, not anything crazy, head hunters will be looking for you until you hit black snow. The collectors will call you every day, and they will call you, and they will not respect anything, either you yourself, or your old mother, or the helpless, react to your father. That's what happens out there. That's the society out there. That's what happens. Where do you live? Don't you see that? Aren't you talking to the world? What's your name? Well done, congratulations, what good are you doing with it? We're talking about human misery, about losing dignity. One hundred and fifty thousand businesses are faced with bankruptcy. Here comes the 'block pandemic' and you live your success story! Unbelievable! Have you not understood from your experience - you have ruled this country years endlessly - that, when you are losing contact with society, with the simple world, of everyday life, you are finished? This is starting to happen, the 'lukelets'. As soon as the 41 billion we got borrowed and paid for by my children, our children and the children of our children are loaned. Pocketakis, not Hetas, said so. 41 billion are allowances. This is gonna end. But, in order to realize what we are now telling you and explaining to you, you must be able, as we have said before, to listen to society, to bend over the Greek citizen. You've lost all contact with reality. Why? Because if you were really interested in the good of the citizens, you would not have them on hunger wages and hunger pensions. If you cared about the good of the people, you wouldn't take the houses. If you care about the good of the citizens, you would not let them pay the most expensive gasoline in Europe, at a price of gold. If you were interested in their goodness, you would have listened to the Greek Solution, which has been shouting for a year. What's she yelling at? That pandemic was the golden opportunity to redesign the primary sector, a piece in which you have done nothing to create the conditions to make money and to invest, produce wealth not with borrowers. It was a great opportunity for us all to work together, not you, a decade-long plan for the primary sector and to have sufficient goods, because as the President of the Greek Solution yesterday, there is a food crisis. Sooner or later, we'll starve. You have chosen to feed the Greeks with wind turbines, feed them with skyscrapers, casinos and stuff like that. However, if you want to feed them with regular food, you should enter apples from Poland and from Romania, Greece should take lemons from India, cherries from Skopje, corn from Bulgaria, meat from Argentina and Germany. For us - and we have said it to all tons - the primary sector, the rural, livestock, the fishing economy is the basic principle of our policy. That's our big difference. Against the non-existence of your own policies, we will go and go with arguments and suggestions, with politically important and serious, policies that will make the seven hundred thousand Greeks abroad want to go back home and want to go back to the country where they have equal opportunities, want to go home and have freedoms. Be careful how critical this word is today: freedoms. Everyone should have freedoms and not a portion, as the Prime Minister said yesterday. Freedom, Mr. Mitsotakis, cannot be a right to some. Freedom cannot be a right to some. For freedom our ancestors have spilled their blood and you cannot do so by a law and an article, as your predecessor said in the Prime Minister, abolish all of this. One and a half years now, a year and a half with these authoritarian methods - to connect the economy to the next theme - with your authoritarian methods you have managed to narrate the pillars of Greek society. What are the pillars of Greek society? The church, justice, medicine, education, the media, the sixth power, institutions that Greeks should trust. Who is trusting the media today? Did the Greek turn the back on all this? Turn her back. Minister, since today we are talking about the economy and we are going to incorporate another European directive, we wonder how it is possible on the one hand for Greece to be the best child, the obedient child of the European Union, to say 'yes' in everything that the European Union protects, what we are saying 'yes' with European law and all Greece disagrees, the obedience, which says 'yes' to all of the European Union, in what Greece disagrees with is what? The only law of the European Union that we are bypassing is that of compulsory vaccination. Europe says that vaccination is not mandatory, Greece is closing its ears and its eyes tightly and making it mandatory. In the only place you are separated from Europe, in all the others you are 'Yes, yes, yes, your orders'. So why are we being wrongdoers and bypassing the law of Europeans? Aren't we afraid of sanctions here? Why? Answer us. There is nothing to tell us at all that Mrs Michailidou, the State Secretary for Labour, tried yesterday to collect the unmistakables she said about the redundancies of those who will not be vaccinated. He said it because that's what it's like, and that's what you're up to. And you used it as a political rabbit yesterday, Mrs Michaelidou, as a political rabbit. Fly out here a smokescreen and you'll see what's coming. Dismiss anyone who does not obey the total measure of mandatory vaccination? I was listening to Vorides today, Adonni Georgiadis, who told us about redundancies in the public and private sectors. So, in public, you're gonna get disciplinary, so I don't know, that's where the Minister washes his hands. In the private sector for a great reason, one can fire you and says it's a great reason you don't get vaccinated. Is that where you're going? So what do you think you're gonna do with the world toward you? When you lose contact and when you force people to do something, not just the vaccine, whatever else, you have lost the game. You've lost the game. Listen to and listen to this clearly: We are not afraid of any army, no order of paid trolls, which you have to disperse lies about the only truly patriotic party in the Greek Parliament and the only political leader who has held the most consistent attitude from the beginning of history with COVID. You're not telling me. Let me ask you a question. Mr President, I shall not speak again, and I shall also use my dentistry, two or three minutes. We don't have a speaker anyway. Thank you. It was not Kyriakos Velopoulos who said at first that it was a "grump" and then said that we would all die if we weren't vaccinated. You say that, Velopoulos didn't say it. Velopoulos didn't say you didn't put masks on, but then you put them, you said that. Didn't Velopoulos say to put on a mask, and then he said put on a cloth and then said the cloth doesn't work, then put on two masks. He did not say that, you said it, you and your committee. Mr. Velopoulos didn't say SPUTNIK doesn't do, then it does in the end that it doesn't. You say that. Velopoulos did not say that young people and children are not in danger, but then they are in danger and we must inoculate them all. You say that. Kyriakos Velopoulos did not blame young people for being responsible for spreading the virus with the parties, the spoiled children, but after the poor children, for giving them 150 euros. You did this. It's not the Greek Solution, it's your cubes. The New Democracy did it and take the hammer. That's why you've failed everything. And what's your point? You agree on everything, economy, tough measures, national issues, reduced EEZ, agreement with Skopje, Greek-Turkish, all agree, New Democracy, SYRIZA and Change Movement. But you found two or three little ideologically disagreement. This is a priest, there's a priest, where is the priest? There he is, Poppas. Nikos Pappas, here he is. You found yourself on the Pope's subject now. That's a serious matter now. Say you have terrible disagreements, set up a nice, summer theatrical performance in here, show how different you are, which are basically the same, you are the two sides of the same coin. That's why we're different. And I close, Mr President, in this way. Our President said so yesterday, and we will be repeating it here in all the tones and where we are taking a step. Take good care of what you will do with national issues and with Turkey. I don't know if you see the banana peel, that Turkey is satisfied and suddenly suggests The Hague. Recommends The Hague with the national crimes you have committed by adopting laws that voted for them and the Change Movement and SYRIZA with you, with reduced EOZ agreements, Italy and Egypt, and on the basis of these agreements, Turkey is now coming to The Hague. It's gonna be a national crime. We'll be here to talk and reason with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u39	Now we are going to follow this: Mr Athanasios Kavada from New Democracy will take the floor. Immediately afterwards, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative will speak. A Member will speak immediately after the list and then proceed to the New Democracy Parliamentary Representative who has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u40	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, a stable demand for the business world is to strengthen liquidity, i.e. warm money, which every business needs to have at its disposal immediately to support its operation, to pay its obligations and to make investments with a future gain. Liquidity, especially in the years of the major economic crisis, has become the big issue. Banks have always been vigilant, especially with small and medium-sized enterprises, and have now reached a point of inability to lend entrepreneurship. The cannabis also closed thousands of businesses, with a small support that could remain viable, closed down. In the face of such a mini-crisis, the country was again found because of the consequences of COVID. In this case, however, the country is lucky to be guided by a government that has the support of growth, entrepreneurship and investment in its DNA. From the outset and throughout the pandemic, firms and professionals have been assisted by the repayment of advances and special purpose compensation. And now, at the dawn of the next day and the return to normality, the aid continues. Already there is a programme of support and relaunching the operation of businesses in tourism and the focus. The measure concerns accommodation, hotels, tourist agencies, restaurants with subsidies in tourism to 5% to 7% of their turnover and to the focus of 7%. In addition to the direct cash support measures, however, the Government also helped to lend firms via TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund. Almost fifteen thousand businesses made use of TEIX II and not only survived, but, as I read recently, 97% of them maintained or increased jobs and this is a huge success for the government. A total of EUR 2.1 billion has been allocated by TPAX II and an additional 5.6 billion via the Guarantee Fund, which is a total of EUR 7.7 billion, which held standing in Greek companies during the pandemic period. But it is obvious that the state can and must have a limited role in the liquidity of an economy. The State's job is to ensure the necessary conditions for this provision of liquidity to do so as the banks should. However, this means healthy banks and viable businesses. This is why it is of special importance to quote some information on the problem of red loans, which are not questionable. In July 2019, ladies and gentlemen, one on two loans was red. The total amount of red loans was EUR 75.4 billion, i.e. 44% of the total number of loans. Currently, red loans through the implementation of the HERAKLIS project have been reduced by EUR 28 billion. This ensures the consolidation and capital adequacy of the banks, without imposing a single euro on the Greek taxpayer. And all these only the first year of operation of the "HERAKLIS" project, which the Opposition deprives it of without any element. The project ‘HERAKELS through the securitisation of red loans raises resources from investors, creates a secondary loan market. It enables banks that have been exempt from 40% of red loans to finance the economy and business. Because, ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, only if the number of red loans is reduced can banks finance the economy and development projects. Let us not forget that the achievement of the objectives, but also of the investment projects of the Recovery Fund, which is the most powerful hope and perspective of the country to move towards strong and sustainable growth, requires financing of projects and banks in order to achieve a greater and multiplier effect. The extension for another eighteen months of the project ‘HARAKLIS’ brings closer to the objective set so that, at the end of 2022, non-performing loans have been reduced to a one-digit percentage. From there on, zeroing, distorting and weakening the government's positive initiatives on debt settlements to the public or banks is a common practice of Officerial Opposition, only the reality and the truth are the elements that give the solution. A month ago, the electronic platform of the new out-of-court settlement mechanism for small businesses was launched, but also for natural persons. What does that mean? It means that small enterprises and natural persons can out-of-court and in up to two hundred forty instalments of all their debts to the public and social security institutions and also four hundred 20 instalments of their debts to the banks. A regulation, no cost, no bureaucracy. The regulation is made automatically, without the intervention of an employee or a human agent with an algorithm through the computer, while allowing the debt to be haircut of up to 95% for fines imposed and up to 85% for surcharges and interest. The minimum monthly instalment for the settlement of debts with the public and social security institutions shall be EUR 50. It is a arrangement that enables households and businesses to protect their first residence and professional housing and to start returning to a form of normality. Ladies and gentlemen, the seismicism promised by some to the Thessaloniki programme in 2014, the abolition of the memorandum and HISA, the deletion of debts was not just deceptive, it was much worse. It was a glimpse of the citizens' vote with unavoidable promises paid very expensively by the citizens. If the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis retains a very large political chapter, two years after the elections, this is due to four words: Reliability, rationality, truth and work! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, too, for your timeliness. Mr. Pappas has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Let me comment on two issues of topicality, because developments are running, as we are discussing here at the National Representation, and I will start with the issue that was dealt with yesterday by Parliament, the debate on the pre-review committee's findings. I have now been informed that Mr Keletsis in a radio interview has admitted that we are also deciding on political motives in the pre-examination committee. Thank you very much, as far as we are concerned, you are breaking open doors. That is exactly what we charged you with, because your indictment collapsed, you withdrawn it badly, and Mr Keletsis, who confesses without pressure from what he seems to say this morning in a radio interview that your motives are purely political. I think it's revealing, it helps even more people, and I'd say it helps people who are on the conservative side to draw conclusions. I do not know how he evaluates the specific role he has played out and wrote from the Minutes at dock, but in any case I think it was a very enlightening public position. In the case of vaccination, let me make a comment. Look at you, you don't need to and neither should the damn thing to people who haven't even been vaccinated. There is something that seems to be foreign to the government. Or persuasion. We must encourage people to be vaccinated. The vaccines save and the road you have taken at the moment will probably have negative results and will fill the tanks of those who want to make and a game of political opportunism on this major public health issue. I'm slowly coming to our point. We heard Mr Stavoura a moment ago. I asked him two questions, we did not get answers, as we did not hear anything about the prospect of deleting some of the debts. If you really think that with the measures you are announcing - I told you that we had reservations about the new regulation that you announced - you have answered the major issue of overcompensation for households and businesses, we really raise our hands up. We have told you since the beginning of the crisis to work directly and forcefully, but you have not listened to us. We told you that the major issue of Greek businesses would be debt accumulation during the pandemic, but that is where you did not hear us. We told you and the business community, they had no political feasibility, these people know the market, they know the needs of their businesses, their obligations, they can see forward three, four, five months, how to accumulate their debts. Then some people said 'but they don't understand'. And it turned out to be a good idea, because the foundation of your political and economic project is the destruction of small and medium-sized enterprises in Greece, which you describe again and again as a 'zombie'. There is your colleague, the Minister who has evoked this insulting word, I would say this insulting characterisation of Greek entrepreneurship. It seems that the 12 billion that he gives more to the servers of red loans is not enough to bring him to the National Representation to explain why he does it for the second time in a year and a half. If that's possible! One day in plenary, may the Minister responsible not be here? SYRIZA has submitted a very coherent costly private debt management proposal, you insisted on going beyond it. In any case, we want and slowly manage to unite political and social forces. Ladies and gentlemen of the majority, the government, in December 2019 when it voted 'HRAKI I', we made two predictions which, unfortunately, for the country, for the people, were confirmed for the national economy. We've been telling you that you've been seeing the world backwards ever since. We talked about it in the light of the vote on this bill and you unfortunately deserved our opinion. What were we talking about? And you had it recorded in the report. We told you that the banks are to serve the economy and not the economy to serve the banks. And in the analysis of the consequences of the "HRAKI I" regulation, he said - exactly where the crucial question is - that is, who will benefit from the arrangements of the bill, you said that the banks will improve their books in second year, later on, they will be able to borrow. A year and a half later, you think this provision has been confirmed, that is, the basis for argument that has made you give EUR 12 billion. guarantees on loan servers? Not confirmed. And that reality I think you should have the political bravery and the freeness to recognize it, unless you want to come here and work with each other. But don't think if we do a deaf dialogue here, the citizen watching us doesn't understand it. I would inform you that he understands and abhors his gaze, if questions are tabled specifically by the opposition, and the government whistles indifferently. Here's the time of the report. You're not starting now. You made "HARAKI I". We listen very carefully. What's happened? Why does the extension need to be extended? Are there any risks of prolongation? Is the taxpayer going to be charged? The 2.4 billion. by granting guarantees provided for in the medium term, relating to ‘HRAKLE’. Are you going to get past these questions, too? Tell us where we'll turn to at the end. This was our first prediction that the project will not work and that it is only about serving and improving the books of the banks. Our second word for word was that in eighteen months' time you will be able to sign a ministerial decision - I said to Mr Zavvos at the time - without coming to the National Representation and say another 10 billion. for the plan. And the Minister replied then that this will not be bad and will be proof of the success of the project - listen! - that 12 billion guarantees would not be enough, that we would have put more and that we and Greek entrepreneurship would have to record as proof of success! And we now hear majority Members coming to say that the volume of red loans has fallen. He didn't, I'm sorry, but he was transferred. Banks may have in their books a reduced volume of red loans, but the weight of the Greek economy has not left, the Greek entrepreneurship carries it on its backs. Or are we at some stage where the fast-speed loan servers are making arrangements? Nothing like that can happen. Even though the arrangements from the loans they have bought have reached 5%. Where is the government in front of this phenomenon? What position does it take? How's he pressing? He's not pressing, he's giving extensions. Because the only pressure lever it had against loan servers was precisely these deadlines. They've filed business plan and if they don't get the targets, they have threats. We have no motive to catch the targets, we're giving an extension. So the confessor will come if the payment is delayed on his bond and he will say "pay me gentlemen". And where will it be paid? Of course, it's a guarantee. And you've really sworn to us that there's no way the Greek taxpayer could be charged. That is something that is presumed not to be the case. Our criteria for the position we took at the time were four. And that is what we have asked you to do, to look and to evaluate what the project's contribution to the stability of the banking system is, what the guarantees of transparency are in its implementation, what its development footprint is and what its financial result, its tax result, its result in the redistribution of wealth and income. So what are the results? Stability of the banking system. Yes, sir. You told us that the red loans were gone from the bank books. Red loans, however, exist in the backs of other companies and carry them. And what banks see as 'green' can very easily become red, because companies are interconnected. And if we have a 'green' operation which provides five'red' companies, if these businesses fall apart because the server has chosen to pursue the objectives described in the business plan, the'red' will also be'red' and the 'green'. And the domino reverse will continue. In other words, the banks - and I think, at last, the political debate and the conflict must be a little disconscious - are ineffective in their role at the moment. In my opinion, it is the great patient of the Greek economy. And that's what people are converging outside SYRIZA. May I remind you what Mr Stournaras says? It says that it is too small as a minimum the percentage of funding and that very little of the Greek entrepreneurship has access to bank lending and that this is a major issue. And now - when I said about Mr Stournara - what is the government's opinion of his proposal for Bad Bank? We have told you that every proposal will be assessed on the basis of these criteria, the criteria of stability, transparency, development and redistributive effect. What's going on here? What background consultation is there, or is there an open conflict that we need to know about? We cannot go through the facts here and the government itself does not see. So the stability of the banking system continues to be questioned once the servicers have arranged only 4.6% of the total EUR 43 billion in loans transferred to their books. A number of figures have now been heard from Mr Stakoura, who are tens of billions away from the necessary funding. The banks have received more than 40 billion - I do not have the exact number - of the European Central Bank's special support programmes for small and medium-sized enterprises and have moved towards the market and to small and medium-sized enterprises. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. I won't abuse because I might have to come back. As far as the development footprint is concerned, let me say that here the government really, expressly and openly lifts its hands up. The servicers, the servers of these loans, make decisions regarding the national economy. They choose which industry they amplify, which industry they protect, which sector they leave to its fate. On what basis, what driver? Their business plan. For the development strategy of the national economy, there is no democratically organised state to say that I choose to protect this sector because it creates employment, because it has large multipliers, for a number of reasons. Where are these decisions taken? And the scenarios for the abrupt development of the Greek economy are here, which are absolutely incompatible with the perspective described and implemented by the Pissaridis report, which is now the gospel of those who believe in this economic policy. Because you also have a large range of managers who do not deal with them, they deal with others. This is the truth about your initiative's development footprint. What's the redistributive print? On the basis of the publications, the extensions you are now giving are given because - it says - no auctions can be made so far. What are you saying here now? What do undisputed publications say? That loan servers aren't doing well because they don't take people's homes. So the HERAKLIS project is the project which guarantees public money for seizures. That's what you're saying. This is called and roams around as an argument. And there hasn't been a denial. So, tell us, does the servicers' inability to catch the targets also mean their inability to make confiscations? We tabled an amendment as a SYRIZA to extend the protection of first residence until June 2022. You need to evaluate it and see it positively. Do you have a picture? How much and what revenue do servicers base them on the seizures of houses and the liquidation of businesses? Shouldn't you tell us? Shouldn't we know? Should the Greek people not know what business practices he comes to guarantee from his own fault? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u43	I, Mr. Pappa, tell you your time. You've spoken protology for four minutes. Now you've been to fourteen minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u44	You'll charge me from secondary. It won't be extensive. She'll be very small.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u45	You won't have one. You've been through twenty-one minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u46	Okay. Then let me make two comments, for which, in fact, we did not get any answers. We'll insist. The first concerns the Recovery Fund. We want to know what has been agreed and what has been formulated, what has changed in relation to the original arrangements. What has happened to these dialogues with the institutions and what measures are small and medium-sized enterprises being protected from the Recovery Fund? Because so far, what we know is that it has the same rules quite clearly, since the banks will decide again who is being financed and who is not being financed. So we'd like to hear an answer. The second question from which you cannot leave and do what you do not hear is this: You have introduced an insurance bill, which privatises subsidiary insurance. We've been calling you from the beginning and told you that what you're going to do, apart from criminal social crime, apart from negative finances, will have a huge financial impact. They were said by the proportional studies. You went and ran into a rock. Resuscitate anthrax. So we ask: will this bill come or has it been too low and down in your drawer? If he comes, what costs will you cut? What new terms are you going to put on? Will you increase contributions? Would you cut pensions? This is what the Greek people deserve to know. Two, three and four members of the financial staff could not come to this step and no response is given to these major issues. I'm stopping here. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u47	I just want to tell you that you're done and you've taken all your time, to be fair to the rest of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u48	Be well, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u49	Mr. Red has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u50	Mr President, I asked you to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u51	I'll give you the floor later. A Member will speak between the two parliamentary representatives. Immediately after that, Mr Brutsis, a Member of Parliament, Mr Spanakis, will speak and then the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides, will speak. Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill which will affect the lives of our fellow citizens, as is the previous bill passed a few months ago, the well-known bankruptcy law, the second chance. The word'second chance' consciously creates a positive breeze. The borrower has the impression that he will be given a second chance, so he won't lose anything. Unfortunately, however, the bill provides for forced bankruptcy. We have been listening since morning to the Members of the Co-Population and to the Ministers saying that the issue is the reduction of red loans, which is why the banks will be able to get rid of the loans. Allow me to ask a basic question and reason: is this only the question, or is it also the reduction of private debt? Is it just a question of reducing the banks again or reducing society, which can't really pay? In this seven-minute speech I will prove that the question is also the relief of private debt, which you do not do. Even assuming that the red loans - which have essentially been transferred, as Nikos Pappas said - have fallen, we still have no substantial improvement in the reduction of private debt. Ladies and gentlemen, our main disagreement on the philosophy of second bankruptcy - not of opportunity - is this and which also applies to other European countries: the bankruptcy of businesses is intended exclusively to satisfy the creditor, the lender. The purpose of household bankruptcy is to bring the borrower back to economic and social life and his minimum decent living. When you in bankruptcy merge them, when natural persons and businesses follow the same rules, we are unfortunately not going to have the purpose of previous legislation, of ensuring first residence and ensuring a decent living for borrowers. Let's not be fooled. The main argument, ladies and gentlemen, of those who supported - and support - the bankruptcy law is what? First of all, it sounds convincing. All the statutes have failed. We have 3869/2010, the law of 2014, the law of 2017, the law of 2018. That is how Mr Stakoras said in the debate on bankruptcy. They failed to reduce red loans. But do you know what we've achieved? We have managed not to increase impoverishment, not to increase, as will increase, the loss of first home. Because - I repeat and remind you - it is not just a question of how the banks are to be reduced. At the same time, it is also a question of reducing those who really need it. And because Mr Stagioras said about a culture of payments, I think that a culture of payments requires above all justice and not social automation, not one group to blame the other group. Some say about strategic bad payers, the others about suckers. Minister, I shall refer to an issue of which it proves that the main objective is lacking in the planning of your government policy. The main objective is along with the strengthening of the domestic credit system and the relief of private debt. There is a 2018 document of the liquidator of the former Agricultural Bank. I will admit to you if you produce, not only today, while you are a government, a similar document. You know this very well. For example, in 2012, debt of 90,000, 230,000 in 2020. They're unbelievable people. Interest more than 20%. And the liquidator says to the Treasury, reducing farmers' debts to the former agricultural bank. This programme, Minister - we had planned - provided for the deletion of all interest, whether accounting or ex-accounting, but also for the capital for loans that were one and twice paid, when the Agricultural Bank itself in 2004 advertised with a brochure, 'Come to adjust your floors'. That's what he told the farmer, the farmer, the fisherman. This programme needs to be restored. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with two points which I believe the market is asking for. First, liquidity. You know very well that most businesses - we have said so many times - have been excluded from liquidity, especially those small and medium-sized enterprises that are the backbone of our economy. And secondly, protection of those who really need, protection of leases. Those who really need to be protected, whether they are freelance or private, must be protected with a tax credit for the owners. For the arrangements announced by Stavros, I will say the following: When he announced them after five minutes I received a phone call from an entrepreneur. He listened to thirty-six interest-free doses - and I want your opinion a little bit - and seventy-two accustomeds. He says to me, "I was closed for eight months with a government order." And he asks me: "Is income not linked to work?" "I didn't fall out," he says. "I haven't failed my job. At the government's command, I was closed. And they celebrate for the thirty-six instalments?’ I said to him, 'I'll give you an answer after the Minister has answered us.' It is not, therefore, a celebration for the thirty-six and seventy-two when the debt created in the pandemic is not due to businessmen, free traders. I will also say a word about the 'January' and state aid. Why, Mr Staikoura, only 55% of the companies affected by the 'January' floods and not 90%, 100%? Why not compensate 100% of the injury? And secondly, because you said state aid: you know that Damasi was hit on March 3th from the earthquake. Still the buildings that have been demolished, haven't they packed, are they still at mercy, are they still abandoned, and we're talking about state aid? Just the other day - listen! - seventy, eighty-eight applications for household aid were paid seventy and we're talking about the rule of law, the welfare state? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u53	You've taken plenty of time, as you've seen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u54	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u55	The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting my position from where the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Papapas, left something that we are in agreement with. It is very important to achieve the objectives we have set in both health and the economy. I think that this common position - and SYRIZA as I hear it - is a wish, because it is about the future of the Greek economy and the country as a whole. So, in the context of these objectives, the results of the budget for the month of June were announced by the Ministry of Finance specifically on behalf of the Accounting Office. The optimistic message is that revenues amount to EUR 3332,000,000, 3% more than the target we set a short time ago in the medium-term Financial Adjustment Programme of 2022-2025 by EUR 97,000,000. This, perhaps, marks the beginning of this achievement of the objectives, critical goals that are to do with the future of our economy, the future of all of us, namely, with regard to the prospects of our living standards, a medium-term fiscal strategy programme providing for 3.6% of the year's growth rate of 6.2%, 4.1%, 4.3% and 3.3% in 2025, which provides for 11% of unemployment in 2025 and the debt to fall to 157% of GDP in 2025. However, in order to achieve these objectives, apart from budgetary successes, vaccination is a key issue. I am also going to add to what has been heard very responsibly by other representatives and MPs, that it is necessary for all Greek citizens to be vaccinated. It is a very critical and important issue, which concerns directly the future of our country, our society, our tourism that is under way and seems to be going very well with regard to the percentages of arrivals in the country and the revenues that are being generated. In the Cyclades Prefecture, of which not only attracts my origin, I am already elected, tourist performances are particularly high, arrivals very large and accommodations have almost been closed at 90% or more. However, the issue of vaccination remains the open and crucial issue and we must convince all Greek citizens to be vaccinated. The government is doing everything it can and it is very important that the vast majority of the parties in this House are in the same direction, because that is where too many things depend. Secondly, we have listened with great pleasure to the Minister of Finance, Mr Staikoras, but also to Mr Besyropoulos, who is also the Minister responsible for taxation matters, announce the crucial issue which was a request from businesses, but also from the free professionals and workers: to have a solution to the settlement through a good compromise, through a good regulation of the debts that have been created at the present time, the difficult period for the economy and society. Twenty-four become thirty-six interest-free instalments and forty-eight to seventy-two at a rate of 2.5%. It is a solution that will actually bring relief to society and businesses and to value added tax, to the declarations of income of natural persons, legal persons, to insurance contributions, to HPAI, that is, to the whole of economic and insurance liabilities, to those created at this difficult period of the coronary. We have to wait, Mr Secretary, as soon as possible for this arrangement, because after today's announcement, everyone will expect their debts to be adjusted as they have been shaped at the moment. However, I have heard from the SYRIZA MP, who I succeeded in Stepa, criticised that "we cannot pay", that "these solutions are actually handmade". He also carried the agony of a businessman - friend who took him on the phone just before. But do you have anything else to suggest? Are you suggesting, like, seismic? I am referring to SYRIZA's MP. And let us not forget that these enterprises, which are currently going to get this good compromise on the seventeen and thirty-six respectively, if they choose to pay or not to pay interest rates, are companies which, although they may have been closed down on a state mandate, were businesses where jobs were maintained by suspending contracts of employment and the money we have given the workers. They are enterprises that have entered into the settlement of the fixed assets and businesses that have received a repayable advance. We gave a total of EUR 41 billion to businesses and to Greek workers at this critical period. I am also going to refer to another point which may have passed too low, but it is worth noting it in the Greek Parliament. I say this as an island, first and foremost, and as one of those who have always been interested in what is happening with the ship repair zone of our country, what is happening with the shipyard future of our country. I would like to add to the very positive points and to highlight by a step of Parliament the important positive development we had in the Scaramaga shipyard competition. The emergence of a majority, of George Prokopiou, really fills us - and must fill us all - with optimism and hope for the future of the shipyards. It is a second important step, following the first major step taken in the Neorio of Syros, as ONEX really opened the shipyards after many years of inertia and decline and hundreds of employees in Syros found a job. There is a harmonious relationship between workers and business. There is a general satisfaction in Syros that extends to all Cyclades, as the ship repair industry in Syros expands throughout the prefecture and success is now evident. Dozens of ships wait outside the port of Syros to enter the shipyard, and I am sure that we will see the same picture in these winters for decades of Scaramaga shipyards. This must be registered into the very positive aspects of our Greek economy. I would like to add two things to them which are self-evident. Firstly, thousands of jobs will also be created in Scaramaga and, secondly, we must all show - and I do so firstly - that it is a patriotic obligation for all shipowners to choose the Greek shipyards as they form and relive. It is their national duty to come the ships to the Greek shipyards. We must all do it without exception. There's no excuse for anyone. And if it sounded critical in the past, I too was being criticised, but there was an alibi that there were no Greek shipyards. Now that there are Greek shipyards, all Greek shipowners must comply with their patriotic debt, bring their ships to Greece. The third point I wish to raise, ladies and gentlemen, is what was said by the Minister of Finance and which was criticised by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. It is a matter of particular importance and concerns the Recovery Fund. It is a great success, Mr Papapas, that Greece, our country, is one of the first countries to adopt the recovery fund portfolio. As Minister of Labour I was responsible for preparing the dossier for the Ministry of Labour. We're done. I would like to assure you that the critical portfolio of the Ministry of Labour provides for radical changes, spectacular changes, through this funding, which will benefit the training of workers at the end of the process, will increase the jobs and meet the supply and demand on the labour market that cannot be met today due to a lack of skills. Therefore, the Greek economy will total EUR 30.5 billion, of which EUR 4 billion will come by the end of July and EUR 7.5 billion available by the end of the year. It concerns a hundred and six investments in total and sixty-eight reforms. EUR 17.8 billion is for aid and EUR 12.7 billion for loans. Seven whole units of GDP cumulatively will increase our country's GDP over the next five years and a hundred and eighty to two hundred thousand jobs in addition to what is envisaged will come to strengthen and further shield the labour market by finding jobs in thousands of unemployed people who are now seeking to find jobs. It is an important prospect for the Recovery Fund. His success from now on, after becoming the first important step of his approval and mapping with more than four thousand five hundred, is the absorption of resources. The absorption of resources is the second and most important issue that goes through the entire Greek public administration. Here we will all be judged by political leaders, senior government officials, officials themselves. It will be judged on the whole of our country because it will be judged whether and how quickly we will get the EUR 30.5 billion. And with today's bill, which is currently under way, one of the important issues that the legislator, the Ministry of Finance, has to ask for, is the extension of the programme "HERAKLIS" by eighteen months. There is criticism of the 'HARAKEL'. We accept it well. The question is this: is there a different proposal, except for the seismicity that is not possible? Is there a different proposal, that is, to say, 'I give all these red loans to the people who created them'? Regardless of how they were created, is there someone who can come out and say "I, yes, am talking about humiliation, and I say how we can get the money out of the money, to give this money"? I think this debate has been exhausted since 2013, in 2014, in 2015, in 2016 and has been rejected. It has appeared to be a genocide that can never be implemented and we must realistically deal with things. The Government and Mr Zavvos in particular, as the State Secretary responsible, brought the programme 'HRAKLIS', which has so far been a great success. In particular, the EUR 75.4 billion in 2019, about 43% of the total loans, has already fallen to 27% this year. In other words, during the first period of HARAKLI, red loans were reduced by 32 billion euros and without any charge for the Greek taxpayer. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] Mr Pappas quite rightly says - because here we cannot be fooled by each other, Mr Pappas, and we must speak frankly - that these have been transferred to companies that are responsible for their management. But the banks were released. It takes the weight off the banks and we give the banks, the financial system in our country, the opportunity to carry out the reason why they exist, namely to fund businesses, the market, the economy of our country. Woe and woe, if we didn't do that! It's the only last solution to get this rock off of us from the economy. We all hope that by the end of the process, as planned at the end of 2022, it will fall into a one-digit figure, as the Ministry of Finance provides, the issue of red loans. So, once again, we call on you to pass a positive draft law on the economy and society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u57	Thank you. Before giving the floor to Mr Lippe Athanasios from New Democracy, the Minister would like to support an amendment. Mr Ljupe, we will prioritise the Minister, because there may be questions from rapporteurs, etc. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. With this amendment, some corrective arrangements are made in the following themes: First, in Article 1, with the recent Law No 4809/2021, we imposed on the football anonymous companies participating in the Super League 2 Championships during the 2021-2022 season to increase their share capital to EUR 350,000. We thought that the full payment of the amount of the increase should have been finalised by 23 July 2021. Since the period from the date of publication of the law until the end of the year is marginal in order to make it possible for the UAE to take all legal steps to increase its share capital and also coincides with summer holidays at the request of the Super League 2 administration, we propose this provision in order to facilitate the timely completion of the necessary procedures and the monitoring of the Commission's professional sports activities. The proposed provision also stipulates that the acquirer has more than 1% of the shares in the OIP. In addition, it is specified that, for the implementation of this certificate issued by the Committee on Professional Sport, which is authorised to an OIE for the right to participate in the racing season, it may be issued at least seven days before the start of official racing obligations. As regards the issue of the guarantee letter for the second groups, since the guarantee letters must be lodged with the ESA until today, 15 July 2021 and that the exact operating framework of the second groups that are not of the Ministry's competence has not yet been established by the NCA, there is an objective inability for the OAS to draft an autonomous budget for any second groups and related to issue a corresponding guarantee letter for the 5% of this. We therefore always propose with the agreement and at the request of Super League 1 and Super League 2, with this provision in the application of the institution of the second groups, that is, for the 2021-2022 season, that the OAE be exempted from the obligation to present a separate guarantee letter for the participation of the second groups. So we facilitate the licensing process and the smooth start of the championship. In Article 2 we propose the inclusion in level 2 of the sports coaches of SEF-TEFA graduates, etc. regardless of specialty, if the sport has been taught as a lesson on the basis of the certificate of study. As far as Article 3 is concerned, I should like to say that this is essentially a legislative improvement. By mistake, Article 65 of Law No 4809/2021 was laid down as an annulled paragraph 2 of Article 84 of the Law. 2725. This provision has in fact been amended by Article 26 of Law 4809/2021. We are in fact correcting this misunderstanding and only for that. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Lippes has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u60	Mr President, will the list of speakers continue or will other speakers be involved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u61	We'll normally continue. Where does the question come from? We will continue with speakers as planned. I didn't understand the meaning of your question. I'm sorry. I'm telling you, honestly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u62	I'm just asking for information, what's the order now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u63	All right, let me read you some names. Here comes Mr. Lippes, the parliamentary representative of the Change Movement Mr.Scandalidis, Mr. Loverdos, that is, you, then Mr. Apostolos and Mr. Kegeroglou, who completes the second circle of speakers and proceed to the third cycle. Mr. Ljupe, after forty waves you have the floor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u64	Ladies and gentlemen, the health crisis and the restrictions on the operation of shops have inevitably brought a major explosion in e-commerce and remote provision of services. Most companies were forced to adapt to the requirements of the time and in order to survive they created electronic stores where consumers can tour digitally and buy the goods they want. This new reality has also created the need to adapt the legislative framework to the new data. The first part of the draft law incorporates two Community directives extending the scope of value added tax to certain services and sales. The VAT exemption is abolished when goods are imported up to EUR 22 and a new framework is created. For small goods up to EUR 150 in the case of their remote market, a procedure is provided for to limit tax avoidance and tax exemption and at the same time an effort is made to simplify tax procedures. The regulation relates to undertakings established either in the European Union or not, provided they sell goods by distance and provide services. In particular, in the case where we have a distance selling by third countries it is subject to VAT that facilitates by means of an electronic purchase of goods up to EUR 150. The second case concerns a transaction for goods irrespective of their value and are moved by consumers within the European Union, while the VAT supplier is established outside the European Union. One of the changes in the bill also concerns the introduction of two new concepts: intraCommunity distance selling of goods and distance selling of goods imported from third countries and third countries. The second part of the bill includes improvements to the already implemented "HARAKLIS" programme, which gives an extension of eighteen months in order to achieve its purpose. The problem of non-performing loans was one of the most serious problems faced by this government two years ago. Almost half of the loans were then not served. This created enormous pressure on the financial system, but also on the private economy. Banks that suffocate under pressure of red loans are impossible to start financing the market again. A market that does not have access to finance has limited, as we know, possibilities. That is why the Government's initiative with the HERAKLIS project was so important that it was immediately approved by the European Commission. This programme provides state guarantees that have so far led to a total amount of securitisations of EUR 32 billion. The programme is operational and has yielded satisfactoryly, despite the difficulties encountered due to the health crisis. Just two years ago, in July 2019, red loans accounted for 43% of all loans, while today they are 27% and hopefully - and the forecasts want - that the number of red loans in 2022 is one-digit. At this level, any criticism from Opposition is, in my opinion, unrealistic since it has no realistic alternative to offer. The head of the Ministry of Finance has told all tons that there is no charge for the Greek taxpayer. On the contrary, this initiative by the Government is coming to give new impetus to the small and medium-sized enterprises that are absolutely in need of the sound functioning of the financial system. The current regulations make small contributions and legislative improvements within the framework of the "HRAKLIS" programme to make it more operational. Finally, the third part of the bill relates to improvements in the provisions on debt settlement and to the provision of a second chance under Law 4738/2020. There are changes here, which in practice seemed to be necessary. Indicatively, the information of the applicant’s wife or wife in the extrajudicial compromise shall not be provided when the couple is in a dimension and has declared it to the tax office. It is foreseen that the restructuring contract will have the effect of a private contract with full probative effect. It is clear that the financial institutions can regulate the loans guaranteed by the Greek State. It is clear that for the resolution agreement, the amounts held and the public and insurance funds the consent of which is presumed shall be calculated. It is clarified that when an exemption is obtained from the liquidation of the debtor’s assets, this means the immediate and self-evident abolition of all administrative and any enforcement. The end-of-payments presumption is described in detail and is combatable, which of course favours the borrower. With today's provisions, Law 4738/2020 can be applied more effectively in order to fulfil its purpose of realising a second chance for those who have been caught in chronic debts to whom they are unable to respond. The government's overall reform work aims to relaunch the Greek economy. The limitation of red loans, the feeding of the economy by the financial system and the support of borrowers unable to respond due to adverse conditions are the priorities of the government and Prime Minister. The Greek economy as a whole reassessses and creates all the appropriate conditions for the benefit of households, workers, entrepreneurs, businesses that are now for the first time after many years can be optimistic about the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr. Lippi, for the consistency in time. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Mr Scandalides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill is a reminder that the "2.0" it has set for the recovery program "ELLADA 2.0" symbolizes a two-speed Greece. On the one hand, the funds and their fatal wages on the other hand, our weak fellow citizens who can no longer survive their first residence. On the one hand, privileged businessmen who achieve debt write-offs of up to 90% and, on the other, people's households who cannot get a debt write-off. On the one hand, the few privileged ones who received cheap and large liquidity that they did not need and parked again on deposits at the bank and on the other hand, those who tried to float with the repayable advance and without it. On the one hand, those who make seizures with the new bankruptcy code and, on the other, those who get rid of their property because of the bankruptcy code. On the one hand, the government is proud that the HERAKLIS project creates a market for red loans on the other hand, we say that the market management of red loans will build a society of one third, returning to the country in the 50s and 60s, at the levels of distribution of income and wealth. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, the proposal tabled by the President of the Change Movement for the reconstruction of the country as early as 2018 has been entitled "Programme Greece". You replicated the title, but not its basic logic. Because for us the plan to be really national cannot build a two-speed country. We have even tabled a proposal very different for red loans both housing and business since 2017. And, of course, they had nothing to do with the HARAKLIS project, which actually sets up a mammoth guarantee programme, so that the so-called servicers do two hundred thousand auctions, as their representative argued. The main reason was that the banks and the Greek State would have a much more active role in the management of the red loans, with the main objectives of the effective protection of the first home and the real second opportunity for truly viable businesses. If our proposals had been discussed and launched in 2017, we would not be in the situation that this bill is trying to correct. Then the newborn, but as the best student of the memorials, SYRIZA, he didn't listen to us. He built the money market and defended it. It built the initial structure of the 'ERAKLI' project and sent it to the European Commission. Of course the New Democracy is now gathering the scrolls SYRIZA has spread, but it must also provide substantiated answers. In particular, our proposal for business loans has common characteristics with that which it later tabled and continues to support the Bank of Greece and which the government systematically rejects. Ladies and gentlemen, the setting of the 'HRAKLE' and the bankruptcy code is a nightmare. You should understand that "HRAKLIS" instead of killing Lernaia Hydra, feeds her and raises her capital, creates a transient system that gathers in a straightforward manner all types of debts. You do not understand that this system is becoming so great that it will have its own dynamics in the Greek economy and will affect issues such as property prices, healthy competition and the living standards of people's households and small and medium-sized enterprises. That is why we are both opposed to the logic of the HERAKLIS programme and therefore to its prolongation for eighteen months and to the increase in the amount of guarantees. On the basis of this information, we would like to remind the Minister of Finance that we have tabled a question on the deletion of the very financially powerful credit institutions and claim management companies from loans and credits on 25 to 2021. This question has also been answered. The Minister or he has no evidence or information he cannot publish, because he will cause stormy reactions. Why can't some people take 90% haircuts and others be referred to the bankruptcy code massively, which is the second part of the bill. This is the second step of the process that the government is going through, since the loans are taken by the servicers, bankruptcy proceedings are under way. The provisions of the bill show that the government will adjust the provisions of the Banking Code to the intentions of banks and services. The Minister has arranged for the pandemic debts, a proposal for thirty-six interest-free instalments or seventy-two to 2.5% interest rate. I think that in the face of the harsh reality, and this proposal is below the requirements. The Parliamentary Budget Office in its last quarterly report argues that there are 109.1 billion people. D EUR 37.8 billion in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium­scale projects. A total of ECU 147 billion was paid to insurance funds, including ECU 147 billion for the financing of small and medium-sized enterprises. Debts are about four million businesses and citizens. We, against this scourge, propose a brave arrangement. We are proposing the debts of the pandemic - the President of the Change Movement has said so - a hundred and twenty doses with 30 per cent haircut for the consistent payers. I think that this proposal should be rethinked by the government rather than constantly bringing half-way and half-way solutions to problems that have enormous social consequences. Ladies and gentlemen, already the original euphoria for a new revival of the economy and growth gives its place to reasonable scepticism. The market as much as you are trying to justify it, it has not been reheated, small and medium-sized enterprises are the victims of selective policies that direct liquidity to those on the top shelf and the most recent phenomenon, the negative development in the price issue. Prices at this time are sweeping the market, evaporating the consumer potential of low incomes. Instead of dealing with these major problems, we come here and list dozens of measures, choices, amendments, arrangements that are trying to close holes or open some even to serve very specific interests. The overall policies facing the development issue are clearly not covered by the four billion that you will receive as the first instalment from the Recovery Fund or by the recovery programme of the Greek economy that you have shown in the House with such general indicators and with simple quantitative indicators, without guaranteeing any condition. This policy comes in full resentment with our time, a time when even beyond the Atlantic superpower, more progressive solutions are being found for the problems of the economy and growth. When the issue of tax justice arises at global level, when issues of internal redistribution are raised that reinforce the lower income classes, when giant programmes that strengthen health systems, the social state, education, the labour market, employment, are in place, we tax each citizen's 22 euros that will order a falsified product through the electronic system. It's a part of the time. On the one hand, a progressive overall development imposed by the era and, on the other, a conservative government which only thinks how it will allocate as unfairly as possible the resources available to the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u67	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr Loverdos John - Michael from New Democracy now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u68	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me personally to express my thanks to you and your colleagues in the Bureau, because all of you who are chairing, regardless of which party you come, are doing your job in accordance with the Rules of Procedure and we must honour this and recognise it. Today we are discussing a very important bill, which, in my opinion, refers to one - perhaps the biggest - problem facing the country over the last ten years. Of course, the problem was not born in the last ten years. He was born in the past ten to fifteen years, when the bourgeois had opened up with the benefits of the banks in loans, "Take up, you too, take, too, take, and you" so that we can get to the over-borrowing of Greek households and businesses. It's something that's awesome. We're all responsible for this disgrace. Because it's about disgraceful. We too are the borrowers - I include myself - and the banks are responsible. They have become disgraceful and orgy before 2010 in this area and they have been paid for the last ten years by all banks and borrowers, as well as by the Greek taxpayer. And that had to stop once. As Yannis Vroutsis said earlier, I wish there was a magical way of paying all these loans, not having to owe anyone, banks having no problem and coming back to a definitive way of dealing with the problem. ‘Sleep’ is not a solution. This proved in practice, when SYRIZA has succeeded - and this is to your credit, I do not say negative - from the 2015 idealism to the realism of 2019, when he handed over power. All this time it is clear that the problem of loans has grown rather than declined. And today there are too many of our fellow citizens who owe a lot of loans and many of them are in danger of losing their home. There is no Greek politician from any party - I am sure I am speaking on behalf of all three hundred, because that is for sure - who would like to lose his home to any of our fellow citizens. Nobody. I wish that no Greek citizen would lose his home, and much more, the biopalests, the workers, the people of Peristeri, whom I represent, or the Aegleo or Iloon. I wish that didn't happen. All the efforts that have been made - the truth is both in terms of the SYRIZA Government and the New Democracy Government - it is in this direction that we find ways to lose as few houses as possible and to close as few firms in difficulty as possible. This is also the purpose of the HERAKLIS project, which we are debating today, the extension of its working time. There are no magical solutions. We have to be realistic. There's no magical button, a magic wand that George Zavvos has to hit and solve. I wish he had it. We must be realistic when we exercise government rule. In this reality, what we can do best. At the same time, we also have a pandemic to manage. I hear some of the Vice-Presidents speaking as if it had not happened that in the past twenty months we have been living in an unprecedented pandemic regime, in an unprecedented regime where the country is forced to borrow to support the private economy. This has never been done in the history of any state. It was only in the pandemic that the states supported the private sector, instead of the reverse. We had to borrow about EUR 41 billion. So far it costs pandemic and fatal, but fortunately, it is at a very low interest rate and a long-term loan, so that it does not make Greek debt viable. But it's a reality. I wish we could give more. Because I have heard the President-in-Office of the Council, Mr Poettering, who said that 55% of farmers should be compensated by the Janus, not 90%. I'd say to him: And why not to 200%? I wish we had money to go to 200%, 300%, to give everyone, "Go, give me a bar" too! But it can't be! In life we must be realistic. I wish we had the possibilities, but, when we have to deal with a difficult situation and a financially burdensome situation, we must all be determined to use what means we have to make the economy and society more competitive. I know that, indeed - and Giannis Vroutzis said, we are not hiding behind our finger - the private debt was not reduced from one day to the next, obviously. They were transferred by the banks to private management companies some loans. This has, however, brought about a decompression in the banking system so that it can reopen the banking system so that it can give loans to new businesses that can operate for the benefit of the economy in order to create jobs so that we can have more money and the borrowers can negotiate better with the private companies that now have their loans. In order to solve this huge problem of loans, there is no other solution. I would just like to make a point because I have heard it from a lot of Vice-Presidents. Everything's fine when we talk about loans. In many things we can agree on, we can disagree. But on the question of growth, don't say what you want. At the moment, in the midst of a pandemic, the government is moving on. Yesterday you saw from 'ERNST & YOUNG' that Greece made twelve posts in attracting investment? Did you see that the Recovery Fund started to be used? No, Mr. Catherine, don't laugh! It goes up, invested and at the same time, today the first twelve projects were announced in the Recovery Fund, including, in particular, the digitisation of the public, but also the upgrading of the Acropolis, which for me is a very important project. I would only agree with the opposition - and I am ending - that is what Mr Alexiadis has put forward and not just - and he is right about this - that it is not a sign of good legislature to bring unreasonable amendments to a bill from the Ministry of Finance or any other ministry from various ministries. Indeed, this is something we have criticised as a New Democracy. We do not like it, and I hope that, over the pandemic, it will stop what is happening with the amendments. Let the ministers take better and better care to bring them to the bills they table. After all, thank God, many bills are deposited by this government. I don't think there was another government with such productive legislative work. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Undersecretary, have you asked for the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u70	I had previously asked for the floor to make my speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u71	If you want now, here, you have the floor. So the Undersecretary, Mr. Zavvos, will speak now. Then, Mr Apostle, you follow Mr Kegeroglu and the second cycle will be completed. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u72	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the National Representation is now called upon to vote, among other things, on the extension of the 'HRAKLIS' programme, the so-called 'HRAKLIS II' programme. This is why the question has to be answered from the outset whether 'ERAKLIS I', that is, the government's plan to reduce red loans, is a success or not. Firstly, Mr President, we have to see that they speak the same numbers. Because during the first period of the 'HRAKLI' period, that is, the eighteen months of its implementation, we have reduced, as everyone accepts, the loans from 43% to 27%, i.e. EUR 32 billion systemic reduction, mainly without imposing the Greek taxpayer. Is that what we assess, or is it not? Is the government's determination, which implements so quickly forward-looking reforms, in record times, with tangible results and benefits for the Greek citizen? Besides, it is no accident, a few days ago, that the Prime Minister underlined the strategic dimension of the "HRAKLIS" programme, saying that this is one of the three fundamental conditions required for Greece to be able to take, not just the step, but the leap of this decade. Because we all know and accept that the resolution of bank portfolios from red loans is the necessary condition for banks to be able to play their real role, which is to provide liquidity to the economy, to households and to small and medium-sized enterprises, but above all to finance investment. There has been a lot of discussion over the past few days in the special committee, but what is the result of the Greek Government's success in upgrading its credit rating? Mr President, we have a number of basic reasons. The first is the reason that red loans are drastically reduced, which was the most acute problem of the Greek economy. Secondly, we know that precisely because of the government's credibility, the cost of raising money has fallen sharply. Thirdly, because the Greek banks really have access to the liquidity of the European Central Bank, which is a personal success of the Prime Minister and something he has not said in previous years. Fourthly, because the deposits are increasing by EUR 23 billion in the midst of a crisis. If this is not trusted in the Greek banking system and the Greek Government, what else can it be? What we are talking about has taken place over the last two years. That's why we're doing our account. These are precisely programmes that have been implemented with determination. Mr SYRIZA, the Change Movement, is constantly talking about whether there is a financial cost from the HERAKLIS programme. We have said and said again that the cost of "HRAKLIS" for the Greek taxpayer is zero. That is precisely why the government has taken this form up consciously. It has chosen to raise resources to reduce red loans rather than to charge the taxpayer. That was the real choice he had to do and it was the right choice. In other words, the Government, by selecting this securitisation mechanism, by providing guarantees from the public to the most reliable part of the securitisation of transactions, namely in the bonds of high senior seniority, creates a mechanism under which assets are used, so-called assets, which under different circumstances would be inactive, steadfast. We are currently creating liquidity that comes into the economy. Another reason is that the securitisation mechanism is traded on the market, i.e. there is demand, there is a sale of 50%+1 of the portfolio, before the Greek State guarantee is actually granted. Thirdly, this is the most sure guarantees. Why? Because even if at some point in time, third, fourth, tenth, there is a small percentage of fallout, then this has already been costed by the price, through the premium paid by the banks for the provision of the public. Fourthly, you know that we have a monitoring committee representing the Bank of Greece, the Court of Auditors, the Ministry of Finance and which continuously monitors the recovery from the securitisation portfolios. At the same time, you are aware that the Bank of Greece is the supervisor of the services. They asked, and Mr Katrinis and others, whether there is, did you have any real cost-benefit study for HARAKEL? But, gentlemen, it is obvious that the government before selecting in detail all existing options and all available forms and ended up in the ‘ERAKLE’. His success has been confirmed by the mass drafting of the systemic banks in this scheme. Because HERAKLIS is a voluntary scheme and the market, when entering with its money, gives a vote of confidence. Is it accidental that after a decade, all Greek banks were drafted to the “HRAKLE”, thus reducing by EUR 32 billion the red loans? This is therefore a solution, not only with positive effects on the taxpayer, but above all realistic. Because, gentlemen, it was approved by the European institutions. It's a clear solution. It's an effective solution. That is why the European institutions support it, and the banks and international investors. Mr Katrinis said this morning that HERAKLES gives a guarantee to a piece of securitisations that are BB - and instead Italy requires four times higher ratings. I fear that the Greek Government does not understand the enormous success here. Because, gentlemen, HERAKLIS is the shape that the Italians had, but this was intended for countries with Investment Grades. What we were able to achieve was a country that is not Investment Grade to be able to take out its banks worthy of international markets to raise money. This was the great success of the government plus the success of reducing costs, i.e. reducing supply, plus the success of the zero risk. And we have a shape that is realistic and efficient at the moment. Eventually "HRAKLIS" is a game changeer, because it has beneficial effects, not only for the banking sector itself, the citizens, the banks, the investors, but also because it helps and helps the real estate market and the capital market in the midst of the greatest crisis we have seen. Is it accidental that there is the secondary market in services, right now, with EUR 95 billion in funds? The market currently exists and operates through this mechanism, i.e. the mechanism that brings funds and reduces red loans, which the Greek taxpayer would otherwise have to pay the costs. But I would like to say to the whole opposition if you have a proposal to bring it here. But bring a proposal costly, with an analysis of the legal implications, i.e. whether it passes through Brussels or not, how much time it takes and whether it is compatible with the ERAKLI. Bring her here and we'll talk about it. I would like to say, however, what we are seeing: two years, unprepared and, above all, unprotected, without a plan and without a programme. In time, however, this is what we are reducing red loans. We will reach a one-digit rate this year, and when we are single-digit, you will then come and tell us what is left of it and what programme we are dealing with. Mr President, I would also like to go on with the subject of the section of the bill which is being discussed today, namely the extension of the 'ERAKLI'. Is this extension a sign of failure, as the opposition said, or a sign of success? But, Mr President, all the international organisations, SSM, the Commission, the ESS, investors are sealing and confirming this policy. The banks were themselves the applicants for the extension of the ‘ERAKEL’. It is precisely why in the next eighteen months we are aiming to reduce red loans to one-digit percentages. I would like to say that we are making an extension to finish while the Italians have already made four extensions of the corresponding scheme, which is extremely successful, had no downfall to date and would probably be able to clear up up to EUR 100 billion of red loans. The bail has been reported. So what's that guarantee? Did HERAKLI I not go well and you need to put another guarantee now, 12 billion? Gentlemen, we must be clear and clear. Each and every eighteen months of its extension, the European Commission needs approval and includes a guarantee. The first ‘HRAKLIS’ had a guarantee of EUR 12 billion and cleared EUR 32 billion of red loans, the second ‘HRAKLIS’ has a guarantee of EUR 12 billion and aims to reduce by another EUR 32 billion. I would like to say, Mr President, that it is probably the main provision that provides for the possibility of flexibility in the case of the grace period given to the managers of claims, i.e., to the servicers, if they are faced with emergencies, I would say, circumstances such as that of the pandemic. In other words, not to swallow a sentence that the law provides for. I wanted to say that this is an insurance policy in the event of exceptional and extreme circumstances. These circumstances are also provided for in European legislation and in the recent Communications of the Committee. However, we have taken steps to extend these and only six months if it needs to be adapted to some basic conditions. First, there should be an application from the applicants, i.e. SPV and servicers. Secondly, there should be a recommendation - an opinion of the relevant monitoring committee referred to in Article 17 of the 'HRAKLE' and, thirdly, there should be the decision of the Minister of Finance. This is therefore a proposed arrangement in which all those necessary insurance modalities exist that ensure that the extension is granted only if the conditions laid down by the law are complied with. I would like to say that, with the success of the HERAKLIS programme, in particular by extending its vote today by Parliament, we are consistently and consistently signalling a major reform whose main objective is not just the resolution of the bank portfolio. The banks do not only work for the government for the banks themselves. And it is clear to all of us that at this critical juncture and after the many efforts the government has made to relieve banks of red loans, to take all the necessary steps to create a pandemic, to help borrowers, we should now also have banks in the next few years to play their role as real donors, as the real catalysts for the transfer of funds, which come from the Recovery Fund. For the government this is the big date, the critical date of the juncture. Because we should have the banking system ready to help exactly what is the big issue, which is the real transformation of the production base of the Greek economy. We need to have, in other words, many stronger, more competitive, more extroverted small and medium-sized enterprises that are worthwhile to be able to draw resources, and for all of this, we do need a new banking system that is renewed, dynamic, open-minded. A banking system which must actually and essentially serve its social role. For all these reasons you see that the government has done its utmost within two years. This is the important account, because it wants to ensure all those necessary and useful conditions for the emergence of the Greek economy. I therefore call on you to vote in favour of the bill which the government today brings to the vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u73	We'll go on with the chatter list. The next speaker is Mr Evangelos Apostleou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, for a minute, can I take the floor to make a statement because the Minister made a report?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u75	Now I have announced Mr. Apostle. I'll give you the floor right after Mr. Apostleu. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Mr President. We have today - sincerely - one particular feature at the meeting. We are talking about settlement of debts, without a single number having been heard. When, Ministers, you presented in the House of bankruptcy as a second chance in the settlement of debts, there was again the same problem. What are you going to do about the rural area at the time? There was no mention. And I come back today. A place where there are private and cooperative units that can respond to their operating costs, but not to their debts. These are units that currently cover much of the country's nutritional needs. Not only did you not touch this problem, but you also granted the right to the clearing bank PQH to sell out debts on foreign funds. Of the first topics that we were concerned with as the SYRIZA government in the Ministry of Rural Development and Food were the administration of the debts of the cooperatives of all grades, which today, ladies and gentlemen, are listening to - touching the 3 billion. The policies for managing these debts by the PASOK and New Democracy have brought us accused to the European Commission. Let us see how these debts are being formed today. First team. The charges relating to the Greek State’s takeover and settlement of debts to ATE amounting to 365 million. These are two cases that have been known with the names of the Agriculture Ministers during the period that has taken place. The first is known as the Koskina arrangement - the Minister for Agriculture of the New Democracy, then - in application of Law 2008/1992 was undertaken and regulated by the Greek public debts of agricultural organizations to ATE. However, by decision, the Commission considered that these arrangements constituted unlawful State aid incompatible with the common market. Our country appealed against this decision to the Court of Justice of the European Communities, which rejected it by charging for the recovery of EUR 181 million. The second indent, known as the Moraté regulation, relates to the application of Law No 2237/1994 by which ATE regulated the existing debts on 31 December 1993 of cooperative organisations. And this arrangement was not accepted, setting an amount to be recovered from EUR 284 million. For these two counts of EUR 465 million that became final from 2004 until 2015 when we took over governance, that is, more than ten years, there was no interest in your governments. Of course you did the same with the other charge of EUR 421 million, the known as the Hatzigakis package. What did we do about these countings? We have chosen to reach agreement with the European Commission. First of all, we have avoided a generalized mission of invitations and financial catalogues to active cooperatives that still play an important role in the rural economy. Because the recovery of the sums charged to them would mean that they will be shut down. Their clearance would lead to short-term difficulties in agricultural production and a serious impact on farmers' incomes. On the contrary, the constant consultation of the European Commission, the cooperation with the clearing company of ATE and also with a representative representation of our cooperative organisations has enabled us to cross-check contracts and accounting data to see the exact amount. What did we do with this function? To prove that some cooperatives are not obliged to return, while others were found to have to pay smaller sums. The sums finally agreed on these allocations in spring 2018 with the services of the European Commission concerned a hundred organisations, and they are: To regulate Koskinna EUR 71 million and to regulate Moraite EUR 25 million, that is, a total of EUR 96 million instead of the 465 million that you left them to be finalised. He was waiting for the European Commission to agree on the way in which payments were settled and for an outstanding amount of credit facilities for the cereal market in 2008 of EUR 13 million. First debt category. The second debt category to the State and the IKA in 2017 was close to EUR 50 million. The third category, unsecured debt to various credit institutions, in 2017 was at EUR 300 million. And the fourth category, the largest, is a cooperative debt, the former ATE's red loans now transferred to special liquidation. This debt since 2017 has involved seven hundred twenty-seven cooperatives, most of which are non-existent, since only eighty-four were aware. All other cooperatives were over-ahead with an accounting balance of EUR 694 million and a total debt today - listen to the EUR 1.6 billion, since even so far the clearer is operating with 11%. So the debts of the rural organisations for which you did not do anything, amount to EUR 2 865 000 000. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, a little tolerant because I am putting a proposal to the government on a specific issue. Give me some time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u77	Soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u78	What did we do? We have drawn up a plan and launched a procedure to give a solution to the issues of overcompensation and recovery in view of the interest of the Greek taxpayer and the aim of saving healthy cooperatives. You have not been concerned with such a matter. We already have a proposal on how to 'true' the total liabilities of cooperatives in order to make them viable. Mr. Besiropoulos, because you are particularly concerned about yourself and you are in a rural area that is within these cooperatives, to take advantage of. But first of all, you need to finalise by legislative means the amounts due from the cooperatives to all creditors, particularly the former ATE and the recoveries. Do not mind that there is a case of these cooperatives today operating and covering important, living needs for our country that they can serve all their debts. After serving the operating costs, you certainly have to adjust the other debts. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u79	Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglu from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u80	Mr Apostle, I think you have raised a question that has been resolved. The issue you raised after your replacement by the Ministry of Rural Development was resolved by Mr Arahovitis in collaboration with the Minister of Finance of the SYRIZA Government. Why do you bring it back? Do you still think it's unresolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u81	You don't have good information.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u82	Please, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u83	That's very good information. When you start criticising previous governments, you should also see your government's assessment of your government and you personally as Minister from your government. So the real problem here is not that you committed us to paying 100 million to the European Union - which we had to pay zero - because Greece had to make these arrangements. We shouldn't have paid and you were committed for 100. This is your success. The real problem is whether agricultural loans for farmers, producers, the owners of the small lot and the cooperative organisations - which are still in existence today - can be included in the regulation procedures. That's the point. And they really have a different approach so far. The manager was so hard - I am talking about the former ATE, the part that was left in the public sector and which was given special management - that the producers and the owners did not find any sense. That's a reality. You must see it. There is, of course, a more general issue. With the systems they have applied in one way or another, they are not trying to find solutions, but they are trying to see how the property and business will leave the hands of those who have it to go to others. This is the result, because the result counts. Now, if we compare Italy with Italy how much worse Italy is than us, it does not mean that we are better than other countries that operate it successfully. Let us see in two worse countries, who is worse than the other. We may be a step better or two or three or - how much you want - five steps worse than Italy. It doesn't mean we're better than other countries. So we don't copy good practices. So we're not looking to see what we're doing in our comparative problems. Only you now come as a government and ask the opposition to do the work you have to do. And you think she'll do an evaluation. Do we have the GLC, do we have the mechanism to give? You have him. Give us the evidence. You only come in every time with legislation that you come after a while to overthrow it again with the same. And I am not only referring to this particular one of your own, which, in any case, is of interest to the private sector and the development of products on the market - as you have said - is 'current' and 'current' individuals who have their respective profits. The question is what is going on with the issues of corporate debtors and private individuals? There's a huge problem with the households. At the moment, there is no protection of first residence. There is no effective regulation procedure. There are bazaars that can hold from here and there and a moratorium to avoid auctioning, but there is no policy for managing overdue households. Repealed by SYRIZA N.3869. And you came and did the worst. Remove the minimum protection that had been left for a further period of time from acquired speed. We have the debts in the pandemic, but also the debts that existed before the pandemic and were not paid because of the pandemic. When someone, in other words, owed until the end of 2019 and hoped for the income of the first half of 2020 to pay debts, then it is not only a pandemic debt that took place from March onwards, but also what was not paid from the income in March and then had been made in the previous period. The concept of overdue debts is broadly defined because of pandemic. It is before March 2020. The regulation proposed by the government with thirty-six instalments and seventy-two to 2.5% of interest rates does not meet the real needs. We must move on to a brave arrangement for the debts and, of course, also to previous debts that have not been included in the hundred and twenty. There should be a hundred and twenty doses and a reward for the consequences with a reduction in what they have to pay. That would be an effective arrangement, so that you don't come back a while later to do another one. This cannot go any further. I think you are not handling this as you should. Mr Vésyropoulos will then tell us about the analysis of this proposal. But we really do not see it as effective. I come to the two amendments on the Scaramaga shipyards and on the Elefsina shipyards. First of all, let us say that the Scaramaga shipyards procedure has brought about a man who wishes to get them with the offer of 25.2 million, but at the same time he has revealed the great problem of this low offer. There are over 180 million debts to the workers, and the price was only 25.5 million. That's what it takes to manage. At the same time, Greece must pay 73 million by decision of the International Court of Justice, which workers claim for the debts. The government must decide at some point after the trial and in the Arable Ice whether it will give it to the workers or whether it will give it to the management. If he chooses to give it to management, out of 73 million, he'll get little to get the workers. If he gives it to the workers, a large percentage will be covered. It is also a question of political will. We are voting for the amendment. But here, we have a greater problem, and so do the Elefsina amendment. The process for Elefsina is behind. The Greek State has not at this time made a decision to say whether it will participate in the settlement of debts of the many millions revealed to have the Elefsina shipyards. The private and the public cannot yet have decided whether to participate, whether it is called the Ministry of Defence or say anything, in order to move forward with a sustainable solution and to get the workers and Elefsina to the money they are owed to. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude very quickly, Mr President. We are therefore voting on the amendment to Elefsina, but that is to go another three months, not to get a solution. We have tabled an amendment to tax retroactives. It needs a fair tax on retrospectives. And I'm talking about the tenth month. It can't be up to the years it was in it. There must be a self-regulatory arrangement so that people who are entitled to take retrospectively do not pay more. You have an amendment that is in the right direction for those who have not been able to replace damaged cars for disabled people. So while it is in the right direction, you are once again putting that paragraph, which creates huge problems, since the disabled 100% or 90% or 80% is - it says - incapable of work. This comes to add a whole process, which is controversial. And it is controversial for too many reasons and it has to do with European law. I would therefore ask that the paragraph which says 'if it is incapable of work' be left. Since he was already a beneficiary, since these disabled people have already been judged to be eligible, this provision does not have to be reintroduced. These are specific diseases which are affected by this provision, which exists. Finally, we have tabled two amendments. One concerns the personal difference in the services of the Ministry of Finance and all supervised bodies. In the way that the government did, the issue was resolved for AIA, but from 1 January 2021, this personal difference is not paid, since the 2018 arrangement provided for payment by the end of 2020. We have young people, therefore, who have moved around with mobility, have been hired and do the same work as the person next door and are being paid much less. It is an issue of equal pay for equal work and you need to see it. It can't be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u84	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u85	I shall conclude, Mr President. There is the amendment that concerns herding in wines - it is timely, and that is why I am bringing it - cooperative organisations or other legal forms, from the EIA to social cooperative enterprises, which are not entitled to be hired by herpes, farm workers, in other words, to do work on the vine which is the property of the undertaking that she owns and a winery at the same time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u86	Mr. Comrade, you have to close down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u87	I would like you to accept these amendments that we have tabled and correct the amendment for people with disabilities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u88	Mr President, I would like to speak on personal grounds for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u89	Where is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u90	I asked you to speak for a minute because Mr Kegeroglu referred to me on the issue I raised.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u91	Mr. Apostle, you're an old parliamentarian and you know it. Where is the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u92	When he said that the issue I raised was settled, of course it concerns me, that I personally did not tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u93	I'll beg you to complete it in a minute. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u94	Mr. Vesiropoulos is here. There has been a debate on this issue, how to deal with the apportionment that has been imposed on us by the European Commission. That is why we made all the negotiations and the four hundred and sixty-five, we put them down to ninety-six, to provide such a way out, which, as things stand, if it is collected in accordance with the public revenue procedure, then it requires auctioning and seizures. Therefore, the process through State aid, through de minimis which took place as a discussion, was the solution, but has not yet been implemented. That's the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u95	Good, Mr. Apostle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, I did not say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u97	Mr. Kegeroglu, he didn't refer to you after all. Now, don't explain what he referred to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u98	Please delete from the Minutes that it has been mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u99	Please. Do you now want the speech on staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u100	I said this because it was really after that agreement, which had to be zero, not 100 million euros, it was the same Minister and it was replaced to get someone else to solve it. Well, didn't the other guy solve it? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u101	Mr Kefaloyannis has the floor to develop the amendment tabled by the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u102	Thank you very much, Mr President. I have asked for the floor for an amendment from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, namely Amendment No 973 and a special 156. As you know, ladies and gentlemen, the manager of the national railway infrastructure, in this regard the OSE, receives state subsidies such as all the relevant bodies at European country level. The purpose of this funding is to ensure that it operates, to ensure that the network is provided, and, of course, to ensure that rail transport is carried out uninterruptedly. In particular, in countries such as Greece the importance of the state grant for the operation of the infrastructure manager, namely for the maintenance of the network, is critical precisely because of the specific characteristics of our country, such as the limited rail network, but also because of Greece's geographical location, as compared to the rest of the European continent, so that it does not have a special international railway traffic, which would also generate increased revenue in the organisation through infrastructure charges, at least to the extent that it exists in other countries of central and northern Europe. In addition, taking into account that even countries with an extensive rail network and a multitude of international connections continue to finance their railway infrastructure managers, we fully understand the need to continue the financing of the Greek railway infrastructure manager, in this case the OSE. The provision that we are presently putting forward, in fact, ensures the OSE, is able to receive state funding without the possibility of confiscation of tax or other loose ends. I would like to point out here that the OSE is presenting a problem in its tax information because of a number of fixed problems and over time, as the regulatory acts for the finalisation of the value of rolling stock and, of course, the corresponding debt write-off of the OSE, in accordance with the decision No 3897/2017 of the European Commission, have not yet been completed. These joint ministerial decisions are difficult technical and will be finalised in the coming months. Compared with this, the adoption of the Joint Ministerial Decision on the value of rolling stock is expected within the next few months and, of course, the second Joint Ministerial Decision on the deletion of the debts in question will also follow in order for the competent AAC services to proceed with these actions. So with this provision that we are bringing today, we are resolving a technical, economic issue for the next few months. When the ministerial decisions that I have mentioned are signed, this issue will actually be resolved. So I call on the National Representation to vote for it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third circle of speakers and I invite Mrs. Bryzidou to move on from New Democracy to Step. The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece will then be given the floor, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, then Mr. Maravegias, Mr. Charitou and Mrs.Photos. Here, Mrs. Brysidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the changes that pandemic has made to our everyday lives cannot leave unaffected and our consumer habits. According to research, the percentage of markets that European citizens made online in relation to the markets they made in natural stores before the first lockdown is increased by 50%. There is therefore a clear trend towards more and more electronic transactions and it is essential that the provisions of the European Union Directives 2455/2017 and 1995/2019 of the European Commission and of the Council of Europe be incorporated into our network. These Directives define a new institutional environment for VAT in relation to transactions made electronically for both consignments within the European Union and imports from third countries. The aim here is to increase public revenue and to combat tax evasion and tax evasion. The VAT exemption for low-value imported parcels of up to EUR 22 is thus repealed. A new special scheme for distance selling of goods imported from third territories or third countries with an internal value of not more than EUR 150 shall be repealed and a new special scheme for distance sales of goods imported from third countries or third countries with an internal value of not more than EUR 150 shall be introduced. There are also two new taxable transactions: intraCommunity distance selling of goods and distance selling of goods imported from third territories or third countries. The aim of these two acts is to address the issues which are constantly emerging from the expansion of e-commerce. In addition, incentives are provided for enterprises facilitating the supply of goods through the use of an electronic interface. A new EU-wide threshold of EUR 10,000 is being introduced, under which telecommunications, radio and television services, as well as electronic services and distance selling within the European Union will generally be taxed in the Member State where the supplier is established. This reduces bureaucracy and administrative burdens for enterprises involved in these sectors. At the same time, a new special scheme is introduced which enables companies to supply supplies and services to consumers to register for VAT purposes in a single Member State of the European Union. This possibility is provided simply and without time-lag through the AIA's ‘Stage Service’. For e-commerce operators that do not use the ‘one stop service’, special arrangements are provided for, according to which they pay VAT without a licence and guarantee recommendation on the sixteenth day of the following month. By means of the "one-stop Service" special arrangements are introduced for companies operating online online online platforms. With all these regulations, we do not simply harmonise the Greek legal order with the European directives. We are achieving further business facilitation. We get them rid of bureaucratic claws. We are consistently and decisively moving towards the digital age, while at the same time ensuring that the state does not lose revenue. The second part of the draft law introduces provisions for the extension of the ‘HRAKLIS’ programme to reduce the remaining stock of the non-performing loans of the Greek banks. As we know, HERAKLIS was a guarantee scheme for the reduction of red loans without any cost to the Greek taxpayer. This project has had benefits both for the whole of the country's economy and for the banking system. Initially, it was lasted until April 2021 and was subsequently approved by the European Commission for another eighteen months under the name ‘HERAKLIS II’. The government's aim is in 2022 the percentage of red loans being less than 10%. In this context today we are voting on some legislative improvements that are necessary for the continuation of this successful programme. For example, we extend the scope of the securitisations - claims to include the transfer of claims from leasing contracts, which have been granted by credit institutions. The possibility is allowed under specific conditions, which require exceptional situations, to be granted by decision of the Minister of Finance for the period of grace of six months. This is a six-month extension for the twenty-four-month period given to management companies to start measuring their performance in the recoveries of the securitised portfolios. And that, of course, is done in the public interest. Thus, this extension provides the necessary flexibility to ensure further the progress of recoveries from the securitisations of the ‘IRAKELS’ programme despite the effects of the coronary. Finally, with the provisions of Part Three of the draft law on the regulation of debts and the provision of a second chance, legislative improvements are made to address issues created by the adoption of that law. As part of the ex-judicial mechanism for regulating debts of households and small businesses, the possibility of adjusting loans with the guarantee of the Greek State, the so-called 'fire and earthquake loans', as well as the settlement of debts by guarantors of the first debtors, is available. Improvements are also made in the provisions concerning the resolution of the debts of medium and large enterprises. Furthermore, reflecting the will of the legislature, it is expressly predicted that the presumption of termination of the debtor's payments to bankruptcy is a fighter. In other words, it can now be objected to by the debtor, and it is obviously a regulation for his benefit. After all, the government's reformist activity does not stop. Instead, it continues rapidly, which is judged to be imposed by pandemic and coronary. The Ministry of Finance, with a view to the steady development of the Greek economy, introduces into the national legal system provisions that seek to improve, safer and economically sound environment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Brysidou. After the Stepma is ready, we will give the floor to the Parliamentary Representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikos Karathanasopoulos. Here, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Mr President. It claims both the government and the other parties that measures should be taken for the sake of the economy. In fact, I would like to ask the main ministers who are more competent to give me the address of the economy, so that I too can send her the good news. We asked her before, except she never came. Why do we say that? Because behind this neutrality of the reference 'the good of the economy' - as if it is common good - you want to cover the class and exploitation of the capitalist economy. We are talking about growth that is at the expense of labour rights. It is at the expense of satisfying the people's needs. In fact, when the Minister spoke a moment ago, he referred to the good news, such as the privatisation of the port of Scaramaga. Of course it is good news for the capital, but for the workers at the Scaramaga shipyards, it is not even guaranteed that they will continue to work - the dismissal hangs above their heads - nor, of course, you mention when they will be given - and if they will be given - the entrepreneurs. And these are carried to the bells. Who, then, is it good to hear about the privatisation of the Scaramaga shipyard? But for the shipowner who took such a very important productive operation. So the Minister said in his speech that the government remains committed to the need to continue the reform work to improve the economic environment. What does it mean, ‘Continuation of the reform work’? We know that very well. We've seen it. The first sample of writing was the anti-French monastery, which was brought by the government a few days ago and was voted by the majority of the House. This anti-Working Terrorism was putting the working time arrangement in place, namely the intensification of workers, the cheaper workers for business groups and, therefore, the increase in exploitation, in order to shield the competitiveness and profitability of business groups. At the same time, with his provisions he sought to put the trade union movement on plaster, turning unions into state and employers. If you think that the JRC and the class movement will agree to enter the trade union movement into the plaster and to ban the strike on the substance, you are mistakenly mistaken, Minister. This law will remain on paper, as other earlier laws - monstrous laws at the expense of the trade union movement were left. However, we also have the next measures which the government has already announced, such as the supplementary insurance scheme, where the money of the insured will be gambled on the financial markets and exploited by the capitalists. Of course, whatever loss there will be, any loss of the subsidiary fund will be covered, it says, by taxpayers, that is, by the people. The capitalists will win, the people will pay for the subsidiary's mess. We also have the new investment law that will further support the needs and investment plans of enterprises with warm money, with new tax exemptions, with adaptation of spatial and urban planning to the needs of businesses, with the concession of mountain volumes and the saint for the benefit of trade. We also have a bill on education and in the name of school autonomy, schools are categorised and class barriers to education are being increased. In essence, skills are promoted, i.e. a fragmentary and consumable assessment of things, so that the worker can be much more suited to the needs of businesses, namely to be a multipurpose consumable worker. So he doesn't have to learn. This will lead to the educational degradation of the children of the people's strata. These reform measures, but others that follow, are precisely the best Euro-Union practices. It is the Pan-European Memorandum accompanying the Recovery and Resilience Fund and is the prerequisites for disbursing the instalments of funding from the Fund. And it may, of course, have been approved by the National Development and Resilience Plan, which is a tool for implementing and financing the needs of capital in infrastructure, in support of warm money, but it is a development of classic and anti-grassroots, which will further widen social inequalities and is not, of course, an endless and sustainable development, but it will be a development that is uncertain because it will be overshadowed by the crises of the capitalist system, which will also regain after this new round of recovery. Let's come to the bill. Of course, for the part relating to VAT - and it is nothing but a facilitation to businesses active in e-commerce - it is for us when the people will be facilitated by the fact that they are free from the hards of VAT, indirect taxation, that is to say, the most anti-grassy tax. Of course, there are also provisions for the extension of the "HERAKLE II" and for amendments to the new Banking Code that was adopted a few months ago by the current government. These two issues, namely HERAKLIS II and the changes to the new bankruptcy code, are jointly aimed at contributing more decisively to the stabilisation of the financial system. The criticism the other parties make - which is convenient to the government - is whether these measures will actually lead to the stabilisation of the financial system and the reorganisation of businesses, in order to obtain liquidity from the market, in other words, with warm money, the companies and the designs we have, or whether additional measures are needed. For example, we are talking about Bad Vank, when SYRIZA suddenly fell in love with Mr Stournara's proposal. On the substance, of course, he is dealing with issues such as deferred tax, Minister, which are not dealt with by it and which are the form of state support, but at the same time he covers this Bad Vank, like your own 'HRAKLIS', that someone has to pay. And the taxpayers will pay. And taxpayers are the people and not the capital. In essence, they are interested in whether small and medium-sized enterprises will be financed, because the government is not looking at what is going on in the European Union. We've found it now! The government does what is done in the European Union, best practices. What is the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union, Minister? It's the operation that has over two hundred and fifty employees. If that is the case, then 90% of what you call "Greek businesses" is out of this definition. They are therefore excluded from the financing measures supported by the European Union, because the European Union supports large businesses from two hundred and fifty people and over multinationals and monopolies. The Greek market is different. Are the other parties not aware of this, namely that 90% of these enterprises that they say are out of the definition of small and medium-sized enterprises in the European Union, so they have no funding and support? They know. Why are they covering up this? They cover this up, because they want to put monopolies, large businesses, with a family business, a craftsman or a dealer in the same bag. It is for them that monopolies are also the deadly enemy, because monopolistic competition, capitalist competition, the policies of governments at the expense of self-employed, professionals and traders are leading precisely to violent displacement from the market of these very small economic units, in order to concentrate the market on increasingly fewer and less hands, to monopolise the market as a whole. So why are they doing this? Because they want to create a philosophical person, where SYRIZA or the Change Movement are interested in the needs of the self-employed, the professionals, the craftsmen, the traders - when they were governments, they had unleashed a huge attack against these social strata - but also to develop deceptively for these layers, when they know very well that the period of fat cows, 70% of these businesses, was excluded from the financial sector. They hadn't called-- give me the banks. Furthermore, in other words, at the time of the thick cows that the banks were sharing loans as strands, this 70% could not pass the bank's threshold. And, of course, they do because they want to build an alliance of these layers with their objective opponent, namely the capitalists and monopolies. In this respect, therefore, we are clearly saying that the financial sector is not a socially beneficial sector, it is a profitable sector. Banks cannot cope with the needs of the people, they cannot provide solutions to the people's problems, but rather they are making use of these problems to win. And so far what have you done to save and stabilise the banks? Shall we measure the measures? Recapitalisation of banks: 45 billion cost the Greek State. So where? They entered the state debt bucket. This new state debt will pay the permanent tax mortgages, the populace layers, to save the banks. One of the prisoners. Secondly, deferred tax which is a form of state support. Thirdly, the attack by banks on the banks themselves, on labour intensification, blackmail, redundancies either in the form of voluntary departure or in the form of violence. And what's the results? We've told you, Mr. Ministers. On December 31, 2008, there were four thousand and thirty branches of banks in Greece and on December 31, 2020 there were six hundred eighty, which is, the branches were reduced 60%. The workers on 31 December 2008 were sixty-seven thousand ninety-eight, and on 31 December 2020 they are thirty-three thousand-three-three-one, i.e. five-three-three-one, five-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three. Here's what intensification is. At the same time, apart from the fact that intensification is at the expense of the workers, it is also at the expense of the people, because you are forcing people, farmers, pensioners, professionals to make whole trips so that they can be served by the banks and traded. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will also take the time of my dentistry, Mr President, and thank you very much. Fourth issue of support for banks is the management of red loans free of charge in previous years from other governments through auctions. SYRIZA's government to remind us made a peculiar felony of the fight against auctioning and dismantled the sweater of the first home protection. And you come today with "HRAKLE" to give new weapons to banks to get rid of red loans: 12 billion "HRAKLIS I" state guarantees, 12 billion more "HRAKLE II". A total of 24 billion state guarantees in banks to be able to get rid of red loans. And we're telling you: are this money guaranteed? No one puts his hand in the Gospel to say if they are secured. So these state guarantees may be at the expense of the people. To transfer the loans where? To the servicers! New term! SYRIZA's using him now. Serviers, he says! These are the predators SYRIZA said seven, eight years ago. Red loans were carried over to the 'parallel' on the substance. And it's also important to change the name you give every time to specific things. They want to cultivate something neutral. Transfer the red loans to the "paracturists", to the servicers and at the same time have formed the new bankruptcy code that is at the expense of the people's needs, to the detriment of the highly indebted people's households, which is accelerating the auctions to help the predators manage these red loans in their portfolios. And the fifth element is the 'GEOFYRA' programmes, which are nothing but the financing of loans from the state budget, namely tax revenue to support the needs of banks and the creation of new red loans during the pandemic period. The paradox, Minister, is that the banks' red loans may be reduced, but the private non-performing debt has not been reduced. They remain the red loans in the bucket. And why hasn't it been reduced? It is precisely because they have not been relieved of the popular strata of overcompensation. The overcompensation of the people's strata remains and increases. And this overcompensation was not the result of a "god trial" and an uncertainness that the people were doing in general, but is the result of the attack they have been attacking over the past few years. Reductions in wages, redundancies, reductions in pensions, tax raid, the attack on insurance rights led the people to not be able to pay the loans they had received, to be able to pay the tax because you took the tax, to be able to pay the insurance funds, the self-employed, the professionals, because, in essence, you are making the insurance funds a partner in their jobs. And from this point of view, we say it clearly: Today the banks are not the great patient, as the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Nikos Pappas, said. The one you have put in the position of the great patient is the people and you have even turned him into a patient over time, who is not going to get rid of his illness if he is not rid of the virus of capitalism. That is, we say, the problem and we want to see it and not the banks. You're all saying that everyone needs to put back on the stability of the financial system. You are, however, covering the fact that so far back has been put on by workers by intensification of work, the taxpayers have put the banks in order to save the banks from the recapitalisations. You are also saying that there can be no resentment, as a New Democracy Member has said. Really, have loans been written off, Ministers? Am I addressing Mr Zavvos: Minister, have loans been cancelled from the banks in recent years? Will you tell us what these loans are? Give us an answer, because as long as you do not respond to us, you can confirm that most of the loans written are business loans, that the governments - and the government of SYRIZA and your governments - have written large-scale business groups, armaments capital, tourism businesses, trade unions, large chains. So give us the picture of what these loans are, because this is dissatisfaction and there cannot be any respect for business loans, capital loans, and there can be no dissatisfaction with the public loans, but there can be no difference in treatment, even interest on unserved loans. On the substance today the other parties that speak, shed crocodile tears for measures taken by their own governments and return as murderers to the crime scene. We as a JRC do not care for the unhelpful total private debt because there is that debt which is not due and which is served by the people, in tax, in their insurance cover, in the loans they pay. That's a debt, too, but you don't take it into account. We are talking about the total private debt that the people have. What we are interested in, and not in the debt that business has. We are clearly saying that this private debt must be paid by the large shareholders of the banks, by deleting loans or even a portion of the capital of loans that the people cannot serve, because you have led them to despair, by despairing the urban state, by deleting debts which the people have in the tax or insurance funds that the self-employed have. And the capital, not just interest, or do instalments. He came to us by the Minister of Conservation and told us that "for the new debts formed in the insurance funds and we will do a service: we will give them thirty-six installments". And we have thirty-six inhabited instalments for new debts, twelve for current debts that are served, one hundred and twenty instalments for old debts, two hundred for the bankruptcy, and he goes by saying. So, what have you done to the world? What have you turned the world into? In a balance, working a life for twenty and thirty years to pay the debts it has to the banks, its debts to the tax and insurance funds. I mean, working a life to pay his debts. And that's a feat? Instead of telling him "I am discharged, do I "pay" these debts you can't pay" to do doses to him and he has to say thank you from the top? If possible. Thus, Minister, we say that they must "pay" the loans that the people have and cannot serve to the banks, be they housing loans, be they professional loans or cultivation loans, give a grace period to repay them and be harmless and, at the same time, prohibit seizures relating to the satisfaction of the people's housing needs, but also the possibility of the professional, the self-employed, the farmer to cultivate his field and the farmer having livestock. We do not really care whether it will pass through Brussels, because you said something before. We are criticising our proposals in Brussels, Minister, because we know very well that Brussels - what is called Brussels - is nothing but the municipality of popular rights and needs. In this respect, Brussels is also the supreme protector of capital. That is why we say that the people must organize their struggle, conflict with capital and with Brussels, with the European Union. I will give the Minutes the data on the banks from 2008 to 2020 that I said before, about shops and workers. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practices of the Parliament.]] And finally, for the amendments. Mr President - and I am addressing you - the government cannot continue the same violin; it can bring amendments to legislation whole, regardless of their nature. This is not the case and it is forcing you to "vote for everything in total". But how can this be done? I am referring to the proposal from the Ministry of Finance, the last time it has been tabled, where there are provisions which still exempt the rents from companies affected by the pandemic and which have remained closed, a number of other issues relating to VAT reductions and have in place and the provision on 'LARCO'. If that's possible! A provision which is a red cloth for the JRC because it speeds up the privatisation or closure of LARCO. Who? The highly productive activity which in conditions of green transition and nickel and cobalt and ironicel are instrumental mineral materials so that the electric cars can also be made, as well as batteries. That's why the nickel price is off. And you want to hand her over beer instead of private interests. We say this clearly, we will vote against the amendment, even though it has other provisions that we could have had a different approach, only on the subject of 'Larco'. Either separate it and bring to a separate amendment the issue of 'LARCO' or otherwise, as a JRC, we will vote against this amendment. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u107	Mr President, I would like to put forward legislative improvements.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u108	Yes, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u109	I would like to put forward technical improvements of a purely procedural nature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u110	We're on the list. The next speaker is Mr Constantine Maraveyas from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the bill we are debating today aims at reducing red loans to one-digit rates by 2022 and speeding up the 'HRAKLIS' programme to enable banks to focus on their real role, namely to support the real economy of small and medium-sized enterprises and households. But it also improves the existing framework for insolvency procedures, creating a clear, clear scope for everyone. In addition, the main objective of the second opportunity brought by the Government of Mr Mitsotakis is not only the possibility of reintroducing overdue households to economic normality, but also the re-activation of entrepreneurs who have suffered during the long-term crisis, thereby giving incentives to revitalise the national economy. But here, Mr President, I would also like to make a small reference to two comments on the speech made yesterday by the Chief of Staff, which I think may also have serious political side effects. So we heard him switch from a defender of Mr Pappa to an interrogator of Mr Mitsotakis. Mr. Tsipras even ended up reproducing the last theory of conspiracy of a well-known journalist, but also spoke of some of his theories, around made in SYRIZA. I will not comment on the reporter, but on the one hand, the Chief of Officerial Vice-President, who imagined that by escalating vulnerability, he would draw attention from Mr Papapas' real reference to justice in his fanatical accusations against the New Democracy. First, the case of the nineteen-year-old Ilioupoli girl who reported her rape by her father, a case of abuse and inhumane sexual exploitation of a girl, who the last one to expect was to have a political exploitation, and, indeed, of the Chief of Officerial Response, who was asking in a spirit of inquisition what this defendant is voting for, and if he votes for a New Democracy, as if the inefficiency of a crime depends on what the criminal is voting for. Now we're going to the other conspiracy theory that New Democracy leaves sexual crime unpunished. He blames New Democracy for the man whose last act as Prime Minister was to vote two years ago the new Criminal Code, who turned sexual crime between relatives into a felony. The same Prime Minister who insisted on voting a few days before the elections on a Criminal Code which foresaw the penalty for rape. This, in my view, is infinitely courageous. That is why I would suggest that SYRIZA does not imagine any party links of criminals with other factions. Because if he does, we should start to think not about speculation anymore, but about what happened in SYRIZA with some criminal cases and who were actually connected to criminals, whom they warned to get away from the authorities. But perhaps the worst mention of Mr. Tsipras might not even be the theory of conspiracy, but the fact that he described the New Democracy as "powers that divide society". It was, in my opinion, a time-saving report. I would remind you that forty-seven years just now, in July '74, the nation's ruler Konstantinos Karamanlis returned to Greece to unite the Greeks, because this was time-consuming and continues to be the New Democracy, almost half a century later: The unprecedented national party, as its founder said, rejecting every divisional logic to unite the nation, but also rendering social justice to the citizens. Because the citizens in 2015 did not vote for SYRIZA to make deal in Maximou so that Mr. Kalogricas could have a channel, nor did they put SYRIZA in the government to close Mr. Kalogrica's appointment in order to ask Mr. Marinakis for millions of dollars to build a channel, because, as he admitted, he did not have the money. Perhaps that is why Mr Papapas understood the second opportunity, which we are discussing today, to businesspeople with financial problems, perhaps that is why SYRIZA is today voting against this draft law which includes arrangements for the second opportunity. It seems, however, that it is the Civic Antipolitics of the reasonable Pope, who, to save a friend contractor and to give him a second chance, closes an appointment with powerful entrepreneurs in order to save him financially. And when they break into his hands, he denies everything, forgets the appointments in Maximus, he won't talk about either sms or gossips, and so on. But silence, ladies and gentlemen, is not gold and certainly not gold. As yesterday's debate has shown, it does not even cover the 3 million Arabs, who pretend you do not know where they ended up, but it does not matter. All this will be done in time by justice. Mr Minister, in conclusion, I would like to refer to the amendment by the Ministry of Finance, which contains many positive measures, such as the zeroing of the rents in July for cultural and sport businesses, events, exhibitions and recreation parks that remain closed with a government mandate. At the same time, it extends the favourable tax and tariff arrangements for the importation and movement of vehicles for small and medium-sized enterprises and disabled persons suffering from end-stage heart failure or who are transplanted pulmonary patients. Thus, they are exempted retrospectively and these vulnerable categories from the registration fee and the traffic charges of the year 2021 onwards. In terms of reducing VAT to 6% for digital book publishing, this is, of course, a very good measure. As I have pointed out in the past, however, it must be complemented by subjecting educational aids, such as maps and ground bullets. It is a matter that I had raised a few months ago when in the same VAT code provision music books went in - and rightly so. These are educational aids that SYRIZA had wrongly brought up to 24% without any substantial financial benefit. It is time to restore this injustice by reintroducing all training aids, including those I propose, to low VAT. I hope that, in considering the information I have sent to you, you will come to the same conclusion. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u112	We continue with Mr. Charitou Dimitrios from SYRIZA. After Mr. Haritou is Mrs. Fotiou, Mr. Spanakis, Mr. Kourublis and Mr. George Tsipras. Here, Mr. Haritou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the law we are debating today appeared in the consultation as incorporating European directives relating to the rules on VAT on electronic commerce and came to Parliament with two additional chapters. What exactly are you doing with them? You are actually modifying your own new legislation. Is there any more proof that once again you legislate in the leg? But, obviously, others are the reasons that our rapporteur has mentioned in detail. What exactly are you doing with the amendments that we are discussing today? Do you take into account, even after all, what we had indicated to you when you amended the plan 'HERAKEL I' as an emergency'? No, of course not. Will we forget, gentlemen, that you did not include any provision for viable companies with red loans to restructure their debt so that they could stand on their feet? Could we forget, gentlemen, when we insisted on asking you for the need for protection measures for the really vulnerable borrowers? Unfortunately, with the amendments you have introduced, you are not even taking them into account today. What you care about is the rescue of the banks alone, while you continue to care for the protection of the first home, of vulnerable households, of social cohesion and of the relaunch of the real economy. Not only do you not allow borrowers to buy their own loans, but you are making it compulsory for them to be securitised and delivered to collecting companies whose remuneration depends on the collecting objectives they achieve. I hope you know, gentlemen, what this means to borrowers, and I think they can understand it very well, and what is going to follow with the ever more suffocating pressure on tax collector companies, while the risk of losing their bank contracts is now visible. A characteristic example, gentlemen, of the suffocating pressures that the thousands of returning relatives are in favour of the loans received under their housing rehabilitation programme, with the guarantee of the Greek State, which was implemented by 2004 and the eight thousand of them are living in Thrace. Today, the majority of them are in a financial weakness to repay their debts and are in danger of losing their homes as well. They are not satisfied with poverty, with the indifference in which they have been found in the crisis, where much of them survive with allowances, but are faced with the aggression of the banks. After the alerts, unbearable pressures, threats, extortion, seizures of common accounts with others who have, now, the banking institutions are taking legal decisions, issuing payment orders against them for hundreds of borrowers, which today are rebellious, since the banks are now openly threatening that they will proceed to auctioning and confiscation of their homes, despite the fact that the loans have been granted with the guarantee of the Greek State. I have recently asked for a timely question here, in the House, from the current State Secretary to deal with the problem, to find a solution, like their clubs, to delete a large part of their debt and to regulate the payment of the rest. Not only was there no commitment on the part of the State Secretary, but in his reply it was as if I were listening not to the representative of the state, but to the representative of the banking system. Gentlemen of the majority are not worthy of such unaltered treatment, the Greek state has invited them to return home and they have responded. I ask you to review your position and provide a solution to the housing loans of the relatives, which I repeat have been given with the guarantee of the Greek State. In addition, Ministers, you are exempted from loan securitisations by many of the government's guaranteed loans. However, you left out of loans granted under Law 2790/2000 of the repatriators, since you do not mention them in the regulations, such as the other laws. I hope that it is due to unreservedness and correct it so that these people will not be found again in a more devastating position than the one they are already in. Ladies and gentlemen, you are amending your recent bankruptcy law, for which we have repeatedly stressed the unfavourable effects, not to mention the dramatic consequences it will have for households, the small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, all those who, while bearing the ten-year war of the crisis, are now coming to give them the graceful shot. I will only confine myself to one point. In the new bankruptcy law, you even include outstanding bankruptcy procedures that are under way, subjecting them to the new electronic divestment process. Thus, divestment procedures initiated under the old bankruptcy code should be implemented with the new law. What does that mean? How it all starts with a zero base. New procedures, new assessment reports, new declarations and so on, and after they have arrived at the divestment stage, will be needed. Except when the auction is finally a retailer and the price is not satisfactory, the new law does not have a manager or a trader to declare him incompetent and reopen him. What does that mean? That small or large assets from household houses to large good production units are eventually sold freely, i.e. at the end of the day. If you agree, Ministers, that we should not lead to such divestments, we are ready to table an amendment to ensure that the auctions initiated under the old bankruptcy law are completed with him. However, if you think that you will restructure schooling production units, you are making a huge mistake. You will lead to the divestment of productive units that could help to relaunch the economy, such as the HELLMANN'S industry in the Komotini BIP, which can open new jobs and stimulate the local economy. I shall close, Mr President, by saying this. In the difficult economic reality that your policies lead the majority of society and especially the middle class to such arrangements that you bring neither relieve vulnerable households nor start the real economy. On the contrary, you are stepping up the deadlocks and the need for a new alternative to governance is now becoming even more urgent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u114	The next speaker is Ms. Theano Fotou from SYRIZA, and immediately thereafter Mr. Kourublis, Mr. Tsipras, Mr. Spanakis and then follow-up. Here, Mrs. Fotio, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing a bill with two sides. The government puts forward one side and is happy, because it saved - it says - the banks for the fourth time with taxpayers' money and at the same time guarantees 12 billion with all those servicers - servers - who took the loans to collect them or auction them. On the other hand, it hides all the dark side of the bill. Besides, you often do this, you have two sides to each bill, but you show us one. So the dark side is exactly the tragedy of households who lose their homes without any protection with this bill and all of it, while we are in the quadrant wave of pandemic powerless toward the most aggressive mutation of the virus. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance supports universal vaccination and protective measures, masks, distances. It's an act of social solidarity, it's an act of social responsibility. Only in this way will we build a wall of immunity together and not a wall of separation and division between us. I'm persuasive! At the same time as epidemiological surveillance, with health measures at the workplace, closed structures, homes, children's camps, schools, public transport. However, the government, ladies and gentlemen, burned the card of persuasion when the Prime Minister himself failed to comply with the measures he imposed on the citizens. When he proclaimed at every opportunity that we were done with the pandemic, he opened tourism without measures and tossed the masks. When it imposed the biggest deal in Europe, which has hit small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the neighborhood shop that has been unfairly closed all this time and has brought the third worst recession in Europe, poverty and unemployment. The government burned the paper of persuasiveness when it did not strengthen the ESS all this time and now it's about to close hospitals. It burned it with the anti-government law and is preparing to reduce the incomes of workers, increase unemployment and poverty and finally achieve cheap work, while at the same time seeking to dismantle subsidiary insurance. We still didn't get any answers all day. It directs the recovery fund's money to a few large business and private investors in order to shrink small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. We didn't get any answers again. What did the institutions say about this terrible plan of the Recovery Fund? He burned the paper of persuasive people when society realized that New Democracy is ruling on communication and with a weapon the propaganda that repeats the well-deserved media. Indeed, it has burned it at the most difficult time, that is, now, and is coming back to what is well known, authoritarianism, discrimination, insecurity, persecution. We say that it must obviously be vaccinated by the staff who care for patients, the elderly, children, the disabled and the long-term suffering. However, the provision of compulsoryity is a lasting part, as the House's Committee on Bioethics says, it cannot be a general one, it requires adequate staffing, it requires a certain period of time. None of this has been done by the government for a year now when they started dying elderly. Last year we proposed concrete measures to the Ministry of Labour for the elderly. Nothing! Children’s camps even opened now, recently, when the health protocols went three days after their opening. What measures will the nursing stations in which the voucher program has not yet come out? Mr. Mitsotakis returns his friendly public availability on new terms, which he made when he was Minister for Administrative Reform in Samaras. Then he made the people of the public, the permanent and the contractor available. Of course, this leads to the dismissal, as was revealed by Mrs Michalidou. Mrs. Michaelidou didn't make a mistake. Mrs. Michailidou accidentally revealed it. With what the government says and does, I believe, and I fear, that it strengthens the anti-invasive movement. The paper of persuasiveness, however, burns when society realizes that a government does not care about it, that it cares about banks and does not care about their homes whether the citizens will lose it or not. We, under Law 4605/19, protected the first residence of every citizen with a red loan. If his income was up to 31,000 with two children and a housing value of up to 250,000. If the banks did not agree on a ‘cut’, because this was the agreement, ‘cut’ and debt regulation, the citizen could have appealed to the courts. There's nothing of this today. With the two laws of the "HRAKLE" and now with the bankruptcy, all this is abolished. What happened? The new, supposedly, protection status says that it first threw incomes into 21,000 for a four - member family and 215,000 for the value of the property. But the great invention is that protection consists of the sale of your house, and then you stay with rent for twelve years, since a piece is already being served by the government with the rental allowance - so much! - and after twelve years you've been buying it again - with what terrible funds, I imagine - at the current commercial value. Is that possible? That's a mock! This is a mockery to every Greek citizen. This is a second opportunity and it is so disgraceful and disgraceful to tell every man who is in danger of losing his home when you do, while you know that the bankrupt Greek people have a great private property, and therefore with this bill you can achieve with a two-tier. You exclude small and medium-sized enterprises from any lending, since from the eighty-five thousand, only twenty-five thousand can enter the bank and correct the "irregularity" of the Greek people, i.e. have great property. And we ask you to withdraw it even at the last minute. Finally, in any case, this bill also covers the irregularities of the state of service. It is Article 41 where you legalise the governing institutions that you have unlawfully nominated by failing to respect their terms of appointment, as determined by the heirs. Am I right, Minister? You legalize their actions, possibly criminal or administrative offences. Tell me at last, who are you covering? The Greek people are also very well aware of the mismanagement of the legacy, opacity and complexity. Tell me, Minister, who do you cover and how many? We will vote against the bill and we will do everything we can to prevent it from being implemented. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. Mr Panagiotis Kourublis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, after two years the government that has snatched power by saying to the Greek people that it will create many and well-paid jobs - we have not seen them, it would be good to remind us of them by the Minister who will follow them at some point in the Step - the government, Mr President, who told the Greek people that in two weeks he would have resolved the issue of Greek's flagship work, it is good to tell us when it will start this famous work, it is coming today, Mr President, and brings us a bill that is falsely claimed, baptising fish meat, that somehow he will take care of the protection of first home. In fact, he argues in the dilemma that he is establishing a body for acquiring and renting the first home, which, of course, does not tell us until now, no matter how many times the honourable ministers have spoken, will be established. The information we have is that it will not even be created in 2022. Let the government finally tell us. However, Mr President, it has been denounced not only by SYRIZA but also by bodies such as borrowers, consumer organisations, such as the president of the Athens Bar Association, that the auctions have begun. Minister, I would like you to disprove me and I would like you to apologise publicly if in May there was an auctioning of sixty square meters of first-parent residence, so that we could tell the Greek people what this is about and exactly what it is about. So since you are also being cut - and I am taking the good side that you too want - do not take our own amendment, bring an amendment that will suspend auctions by the middle of 2022. Because it has not been established that you are claiming that you will somehow protect it. Because you do not even protect him there, because you have to rent his house for twelve years without taking into account whether he can buy once with that amount he will deposit. But you are doing something more criminal, which has unfortunately not emerged, and you must explain on this matter. If a citizen rents this house in both years for some reason, you obligate him - to listen to it - to pay the rent for twelve years. And I'm going to ask you for that, and I'm sorry. So, Minister, Mr Ministers, if you really want to join the whole political system at a time when there are open national issues to support the country's social defence. And when a citizen loses his home, it's a great disaster for his soul and life. I would therefore ask you to vote on a new provision. Firstly, to bind the banks and the great predators, the services, to come to an out-of-court settlement. Minister, what you're doing is a underdeveloped capitalist function of the colonial type. Because what I'm about to tell you is not the communist regime in North Korea, but the friendly France. The French model introduces, Mr President, the obligation and commitment of the banking system, which we have paid three times with recapitalisations, to which we have given 100 billion guarantees since 2008. It had repeatedly committed itself to supporting the real economy. And today when we're talking about what's going on? They took 47 billion from the European Bank at about zero interest rates and another 23 billion from the deposits of the new Greek citizens. And Mr Voloudakis asked something, and he is an MEP, and he was not answered by Mr Zavvos, and I attended the meeting the day before yesterday. While some 6 billion were given to some businesses at a small percentage compared to the eight hundred thousand, about thirty thousand large and somewhat medium-sized enterprises, the remaining 64 billion have gone, Minister? Are you going to answer us for that? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why I am telling you to move forward with a provision establishing the obligation and commitment to go to an extrajudicial settlement, otherwise you leave the citizen completely exposed. Mr President, the banking system, as I said, has been supported by Greece's political system for the last ten years but has never supported the real economy. Today, if you see one borrows at zero interest rates and borrows at 8% and 10%. And because you told us with a complacentness that holds you - because all you've achieved is to get vaccinated with complacentness - that you were resurrecting Piraeus Bank and the other day went out to get a loan from Piraeus Bank and took it with 8.75%. Can you answer that, too, Minister? How much is he going to lend business? One more thing. You told us at a previous meeting that it needs to change the profile used by banks in order to get a small-scale loan back. Can you tell us whether this was the case, to go to a next issue, Mr President, which has been denounced by consumer organizations and about unfair and abusive charges? Are we finally rule of law? I have heard you, Mr Zabwe, - I do not know if he is here - I have heard you showing on your finger an elected parliamentary group. And when a minister is addressed - and I do not say it with a personal peak - he must have a respect, Mr President, because the election of a Member is the highest democratic function, because it is the most genuine authority. The Minister is a donor. The Prime Minister is giving the power. The MP is elected, and when a Minister is addressed to MPs, whoever they are, he must be sufficiently careful. So you told us about the rule of law.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u118	Let's finish, Mr. Kurubli. We're up to eight minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u119	Yes, Mr. President, I am not using paper in a way...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Curublis, tolerance exists, I have to...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u121	...even the Bureau is violating the Rules of Procedure of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u122	Mr. Curublis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u123	...when it doesn't impose...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u124	Hey, listen to me. I tell you that tolerance exists from the Bureau. I'm Warning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u125	Do you want to go against it now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u126	No, I don't want any quarrel. I want you to listen to me. Don't have that inappropriate reason.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u127	Can I tell you he was a Member of Parliament who spoke ten minutes more?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u128	I'm telling you, you have the tolerance. Just shorten up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u129	Did you find out about me? I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u130	Now, what can I tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u131	What can you tell me? You should have respect for a Member of Parliament who speaks of breasts. What I'm telling you! If you want to hear them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u132	Are you messing with me? With the Treasury Department, you had problems...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u133	Okay. Mr Minister, I should also like to tell you about the famous immunity. Who created the big red loans? The Golden Boys in previous years which provided loans without obtaining the necessary conditions. To protect them in 2019, you brought a provision for them because they were the ones who gave the wonderful loans to New Democracy without a guarantee. You are now coming and say: Immunity in the financial system, namely the governors and members of the board of directors, guaranteeing immunity to the board of directors of the financial corporation. Assurance of immunity to the Golden Boys who will run the recapitalisation of the AS, i.e. they will manage the billions of the Greek people, take large wages and have them as well. So the same thing you bring today. Ensuring that those who created the pile of red loans are managed. You want to make sure they're dived. In particular, Mr President, and this is a crucial issue, you have obtained immunity from infectious diseases. You are doing this, you are making doubts about the soul of the world and instead of taking responsibility for what you are doing, ask what the President of the Camps Union said on a public broadcast today. The first period is over...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u134	Please close a lot, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u135	...actually they're unacceptable and they're creating piles of problems. This is the New Democracy Government, that is the government which has great credibility - and I close, Mr President, in half a minute - with the golls you like to mention. However, I did not see it respond as the French people responded after the dilemma to Mr McCrone. The Prime Minister who has such great acceptance, as you say with the goulops, to the Greek people, did not see this response. Thank you, Mr President. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u136	Mr. Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor from SYRIZA and then Mr. Spanakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I followed Mr Mitsotakis' speech at the 'THE ECONOMIST' conference. It really has a terrible interest in following the parallel streets of the Prime Minister's communication staff and the policy pursued by Mr. Mitsotakis. He presented a pink situation for the Greek economy and said the country would return to the primary surpluses in 2023. Whether we have studied biologists or studied economists, doctors or lawyers, those who have been dealing with politics in the last ten or fifteen years have understood that this means blood, social blood, blood of entrepreneurship, dissolution, destruction and equalisation of the poor, the middle and the weak. I say this because last year you have been making some over-optimistic forecasts of the 2021 economy and whoever dared to put some questions or some points you called him convincing, that he wants the country to fail so that the government could fail and something like that. The reality, unfortunately, shows that we are dealing internationally with a very difficult situation that your ideological policies within the country are exacerbating it. And while the international economy finds itself in great difficulty, we are increasingly in larger divergences from the averages and reality, and we must add to that the more than ten years of economic crisis that has taken place. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] I have also not heard a disapproval or an agreement with which, Minister, is being discussed in Europe. The candidate for the German Chancellor, Mr Lasset, has been on the conservative side for twenty days, and he has said that we must return to fiscal orthodoxy and stop the reciprocation of debts. That's the one point of view. Mr. Draghi has left, and he has said that from the management of the pandemic debts something needs to be left. You, with your reference to the primary surpluses of 2023, are obviously in the first position. If that is not the case, go out and say why the country needs alliances, political and geographical, in Europe for the next day, because sizes are difficult. Second report by Mr Mitsotakis at the conference of the 'THE ECONOMIST'. They just copyed Joe Biden's communists there. He said: I call on the workers and entrepreneurs in a promotional agreement for the country and if you do not find workers - and he whispered it, as Mr Biden did - pay them more. Mr. Mitsotakis says this, which when Mr. Tsipras comes out and says: "Increase the minimum wage to EUR 800", he puts parliamentarians, ministers and specific communal enclaves to slander him as a populist, saying he's saying he's overreacting and that these are inapplicable. In fact, let’s say that what Tsipras says is inapplicable. What Mitsotakis was saying in the election is inappropriate? Aren't you, Mr. Besyropoulou, are you not committed that for every 1% growth of the Greek economy you will increase 2% of the minimum wage? We voted the medium-term economic recovery yesterday at 3.6%. When will you bring the minimum wage increase by 7.2%? You voted yesterday in the medium term - you introduced it, not us - to increase GDP by 6.1%. Will you bring in at the beginning of 2022 a 12.2% minimum wage increase? These, if you sum up, it makes us 780 euros. Do not do Tsipra's folklore for 800, do what you were saying in election that is not populist and 780. Third point in Mr Mitsotakis' placement. Mr. Mitsotakis is closed with a report from Kanes. In fact, if Mr. Mitsotakis comes out and talks about Keynes, who will be in Greece to talk about the Chicago school? That's a question. But it's the same thing that, while his commuters make him say about Kanes, he comes here in the middle of a crisis and legislates unpaid overtime. Tell me: Is the unpaid overtime an interventionist policy? Is all you've been doing two years in the country now a Kenyan policy? I'm a biologist, I'm not an economic theory, and I'm trying to read and learn, but I understand that other things you're saying and other things you're doing. About the state of the "Delta" mutation and your choices are worsening both the country's finances and the household's finances. The question is: Can red loans be managed in a socially fair way? We fought this and crashed and had care for vulnerable and borrowers and excluded first home mortgages from auctioning to specific income. We did not, of course, protect a villa of one or two million, but the houses were protected up to 250,000-280,000. Here you are supposed to make an agreement with the banks to extend the suspension of auctions for a time. But Mr Vervessos comes out and makes a complaint that this agreement is not being observed and suddenly this disappears from the public word. And as far as I know, Mr. Vervessus has nothing to do with SYRIZA, but man has an institutional position. Is it true or is what Mr. Bervessos said? But are you telling the channels that they've agreed and others are actually done? Another point is that you either forecast for the country before a pandemic rate of growth of 2%, 3%, 4% -4% said then - or the country has 10% recession, you come and legislate the same. That is your main problem, that you do not understand where the country, where the citizens live, where the workers live, where entrepreneurship lives. And you have a problem. Instead of adjusting the data to these conditions, you leave it all freely. So for this story with the 15% increase in electricity, can't you take any initiative? Here there is poverty, there is unemployment, there is precipitation. The ideoleptic Mr Hatzidakis told us, again, at the conference of "THE ECONOMIST", in 2020, that by liberalising the energy market prices will fall. He had increased the electricity price by 10% when he became Minister and now you increased it by 15%. That's how you love middle class! In a crisis, in recession, the last electricity bill to be paid to Tsipras in relation to the one that will be paid in the autumn with Mitsotakis has 25% difference. That's how you love middle class! I'd like to say one last thing. Red loans, even paid, unlocked, very nice. What about this New Democracy loan? Isn't that a red loan? So, you're not ashamed of a business or a private person who owes 300,000, 50,000 euros, who's come out of trouble, who's got the time and wants to study his child, who's got a health problem and has to pay a private nurse, why did you make the health system one, just covid do it, get him the fortune, while your party that owes 400 million and every year raises the loan can govern the country? With this red loan, with this blue scandal, is there going to be anything in this country? I mean, you're talking about everyone but yourself. That takes a little shame, a little empathy. And let me tell you something, you must put your hand in the pocket. The SYRIZA MPs every month give 2,000 euros of our compensation to owe our party nothing anywhere. Give it to you, too. The ones you appointed there with three hundred and three hundred thousand in the various CECFs, which are blue executives, did not take them as market lighters, too, to put their hand in the pocket. The Greek people cannot always pay the debts of your party, and when we ask for explanations to Parliament that the Prime Minister disappears. So because you are out of place and time, I invite you to come together, to adjust your policies, to listen to the specific proposals of counter-population and to leave the slogans, because you only deal with slogans, not because I say so, because you say so. And I'm closing up with it. Listen to what the Prime Minister said in the summer of 2020. The Prime Minister said so, not me, that we are turning summer into a time of sowing and care, so that in the autumn it will become the spring of hope and rise in the winter of 2020 and in the spring of 2021 the warm sun of growth. That's what you said. That's how you deal with it. Remember, you and the citizens what we lived on last summer and understand what we will live like this and continue with these obsessions and these ideas. Thank you, Madam President, for the tolerance of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Now Mr Spankis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u139	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, I think SYRIZA's colleagues have no good memory. They forget about things that have so far not come out to speak to the Greek people. The SYRIZA colleagues forget that for the past 50 months - and this is where the State Secretary, Mr Vesyropoulos, can confirm - there was no favorable arrangement for the debtors, that for the last 50 months that Alexis Tsipras was at the wheel of the country, the debts were launched, there was no possibility of adjusting debts, and that it was indifferent. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, facilitates citizens. A few hours ago by Stepa, the Minister of Finance announced a new arrangement for debts created between March 2020 and July 2021, arrangements for businesses, free traders, workers, property owners. And to be specific and to speak clearly to the Greek people, according to the tax authority's figures, this is a possibility - note, ladies and gentlemen - of thirty-four thousand and fifty-five legal persons, thirty-sixty-two-seven-seven-seven-seven-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three thousand-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-thir-three-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-th-thir-the-th-the-the-the-the-the-th-thir-thir-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-three-th-th-th-th-th-th-three-three-the-the-three This is our difference, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, that we are listening to society, we are listening to the market, we are close to the needs of society in contrast to you who are generalizing, abstract and, above all, there is a courage to come here to lie to us. Ladies and gentlemen, Madam President, we are debating today a draft law by the Ministry of Finance, which is structured in three parts, mainly concerning improvements and amendments. In particular, we have incorporated provisions of European directives on VAT rules for e-commerce, we also have a series of supplementary regulations for the 'HRAKLE II' programme, and finally we have some additional provisions that have been deemed necessary on Law 4738/2020 for the regulation of debts and the provision of a second chance. The provisions of Part One, namely the two Directives of the European Council, are amendments to a previous directive on the common system of VAT and the exemption from VAT of certain imports of goods. These provisions shall apply to the Member States as from 1 July. All the new regulations are attempting to bring improvements to the existing common framework, mainly because of the rapid increase in e-commerce. I shall mention selectively some of the basic regulations that are being introduced. To abolish the VAT exemption in force on imports of low-value parcels of up to EUR 22 and to introduce a new special scheme for parcels of up to EUR 150 to avoid tax avoidance and tax evasion when small packages are imported. We also have the introduction of two new tax instruments, the intra-Community distance selling of goods and the distance selling of goods imported from third countries or from third countries, which was also considered essential because of the terrible eruption in e-commerce. Finally, new requirements relating to the entry in the accounts of operators facilitating the supply of goods or services through the use of an electronic interface are laid down. However, I come to the second part of the bill which is very important as it relates to the arrangements necessary for the extension of the HERAKLIS programme by eighteen months from April 2021 to October 2022. The 'HRAKLIS' programme is a breath for the banks that are caught up with red loans, but beyond that it concerns all citizens and, above all, concerns citizens and legal persons, but it concerns the entire economy of the country and we must not forget that. The picture presented by Greece was particularly problematic before the historical approval of the project that the Government of the New Democracy designed, submitted and negotiated in time and decisively. The data of the Single Supervisory Mechanism showed that 39% of all loans with the European average were at 3.56%. The success of the "HERAKLIS I" programme is undeniable, especially in the pandemic environment. All four systemic banks with a total amount of securitisations of approximately EUR 32 billion have joined the programme. This success was recognised internationally, as was the extension requested by the Association of Greek Banks and was committed by the relevant Minister. The main objective of the programme and the extension is to reduce non-performing loans to one-digit rates by 2022. That's the target. In the long term, successful implementation of the programme will enable banks to widen their balance sheets, focus on their real role in supporting the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, trades and households. Finally, in the third part of today's bill we are debating, we have some amendments to the provisions of Law 4738/20. And here I note that this law is the most comprehensive piece of legislation on the regulation of debts of natural and legal persons for the overdue households, on the protection of first residence, for professionals. In its implementation, however, there have also been some issues that need to be clarified, and some additional provisions have been considered necessary, so that there is no point in confusing them. And that is the difference between the current government, direct action and constant monitoring of all laws that we are introducing. I shall mention some selective points, such as Article 31, concerning the discharge of the responsibility of a staff member for signing a resolution agreement. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, your tolerance for a minute. Thank you very much. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Below. The amendment clarifying that the liquidation value of the debtor’s real estate taken into account for the adjustment proposal may in no case be less than the value for the calculation of HICP. Article 58 states that the previous provision is to be supplemented to include debtors whose application was rejected by earlier law, Law 3588/2017, while the amended provision of Article 40 provides that they are not submitted at the time of the merger of credit institutions or other transformations and zero returns on real estate tax. The obligation to submit zero declarations was a disproportionate administrative cost and burden to the traders because of the number of properties and the corresponding number of declarations submitted, of which there is no obligation to pay tax. In conclusion, I would like to express my sincere question why the opposition parties ultimately voted against all the above provisions, namely the provisions that our country has to apply on 1 July? The extension of the HERAKLIS programme, which is the key tool to decapitate both banks and citizens and professionals from unhelpful loans, so that the country can enter a serious development track? In fact, opposition must give concrete and clear answers. But today there are also important, very important amendments. I think that this draft law should be voted on. It's a draft law that looks ahead. And that is the difference, that we are here because we are looking forward, because this government will have many years in front of it, because it listens to Greek society and solves problems of everyday life. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Pascalides from New Democracy with Webex has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u141	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, given that these conditions make more urgent the need for reforms in order to improve the economic environment in which citizens and businesses operate, the current draft law with provisions providing, among other things, for improvements within the extrajudicial mechanism and the HERAKLIS programme, fully achieves the objectives set by the Government for strong and sustainable recovery. The first part of the bill concerns the incorporation of the European Union Directives on e-commerce with effect from 1-7-2021. In particular, the provisions of European Union Directives 2017/2455 and 2019/1995, which define a new institutional environment for VAT in relation to transactions made electronically, both for consignments within the European Union and for imports from third countries, with clear advantages for public revenue and the business community, are incorporated. In particular, a single limit of EUR 10,000 per year is introduced for telecommunications, radio and television services and electronically supplied services, as well as for distance sales within the European Union, which will generally be taxed in the Member State of establishment of the supplier. Furthermore, in accordance with European law, VAT is levied on small packages imported from third countries regardless of their value from 1-7-2021. The VAT exemption for small packages of up to EUR 22, valid for up to EUR 30-62021 is therefore repealed. Thus, the introduction of new VAT rules in the field of distance selling of goods imported from third countries or third countries is expected to increase VAT revenue due to the lifting of the applicable exemption on imports of goods of small value and the imposition of a duty on imports of independent value. At the same time, due to the full electronicisation of the procedure for making statements and paying taxes on the special arrangements for importing and submitting a new over-simplified customs import and payment of taxes on a monthly basis to the customs authorities, the services provided by the State to economic operators traded with the administration, for example international courier companies, customs representatives, etc. are significantly upgraded. The second part of the bill contains the provisions for extending the successful program ‘HRAKLIS’, aimed at reducing the remaining stock of the non-performing loan of the Greek banks, thus marking the Government’s reform determination. The success of the programme, which is expected to contribute actively to the reduction of the non-performing loan ratio, has led to the extension of it for another eighteen months and the maximum amount of guarantees of EUR 12 billion. The positive results of the program "HRAKLIS" to the Greek banks are already visible, with the foreign response to the successful capital increases that have successfully completed two systemic banks. HERAKLIS II will play a catalytic role in further strengthening the positive prospects of the Greek financial system and the economy. His positive footprint is particularly important in our critical period, since the banks will play a key role in channelling the resources of the Recovery Fund and in evaluating the large and smaller investment projects that will be implemented in the coming years. The ultimate objective of the programme is to resolve bank balances so that they can focus on their real role, which is to support the real economy, small and medium-sized enterprises, tradesmen and households. Finally, under the provisions of Part Three of the draft, which relates to the regulation of debts and the provision of a second chance, provision is made for the addition of provisions to improve instruments for prudential restructuring and, secondly, for the removal of doubts as to the wording of the provisions. For example, I would like to mention some key points, such as the out-of-court settlement mechanism for debts from households and small businesses, the possibility of adjusting loans with a guarantee from the Greek State, such as firefighting and earthquake-stricken loans, as well as debt regulation from first-time guarantors by submitting the data to the first-collection application. In addition, the possibility of adjusting the public debts of the social security institutions is allowed even by the counter-proposal that bank institutions may submit. In addition, improvements are made to the provisions concerning the resolution of debts of medium and large enterprises introduced with a view to further improving the institutional framework for the benefit of the debtors, actively contributing to the resolution of the private debt problem. To conclude, I would like to stress that once again the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with the prestigious Minister of Finance, Christos Staikos, as well as its partners, even under conditions of high uncertainty due to the Koroniovius pandemic, is bringing to the vote a bill designed not only to resolve the huge issue of private debt but also to strengthen the development process of the Greek economy by creating new investment opportunities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u142	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Karagunis from New Democracy has the floor again for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, what we are basically discussing today is to agree and vote for the continuation of the 'HRAKLIS' programme, the so-called 'HRAKLIS II' programme, so that this eighteen-month extension would be granted with a view to further restructuring the banks, a drastic reduction in red loans. In essence, we will allow banks to provide liquidity to businesses and households and, of course, we will vote for the provisions aimed at improving the conditions for the regulation of debts and providing for what the previous bill says and it is now coming to an improvement in the provision of the second chance. We all know very well that the cord of the banks and, in a sense, the Greek economy, are the'red' loans. So the main challenge of the government - and I think it is, admittedly, very successful - is to deprive the banks of their poor assets. And so, in practical support of this attempt to decommission it, through the 'HRAKLIS' programme and, of course, this programme, the so-called 'HRAKLIS II' programme, which we are actually voting on today by extending it. Ladies and gentlemen, while listening to some of the Vice-Presidents, I will have to repeat that this government has received a situation in which almost one out of two loans was unserving. I would remind you that according to the 2019 Financial Stability Report of the Bank of Greece, non-performing loans amounted to EUR 75.4 billion at the end of June 2019, i.e. 43.6% of all loans. All four systemic banks with a total amount of securitisations amounting to more than EUR 35 billion and if I remember correctly the figures in the nine months of 2020, the total reserve of non-performing loans amounted to EUR 58.7 billion, while the proportion of non-performing loans to the total amount of loans to 35.8%. This is a reduction of over 8% compared to what this government had received. With 'HRAKLE II' the objective is to reduce red loans to the absolute minimum, so that banks, as I said before, can perform their real role, namely the financing of Greek businesses and households, and I think that, as I have heard the rapporteur for Officerial Response and as well as for the general opposition, we are all in agreement. There is a lot of talk about auctioning, and I hear some officers from Officer Opposition picking up very high tones. The truth is that in recent years, with the completely wrong choices of the previous government, it has been the middle class that has basically been charged, mainly by auctions, precisely because it is the class that has comparatively more ownership than anyone else. The official data of both Citizens' Counselor and ELSTAT are known. I have said them many times and I will repeat them, those auctions that were not made from 2005 to 2017 only in 2018 with the liberalisation of electronic auctions and, finally, we arrived at Law 4605/2019, which brought the horizontal protection of first home and, in fact, did not allow one to enter the protection network until July 2019. I would remind the citizens who are listening to us - because it is important to remember what has happened - that our own government has facilitated the platform so that it can function. It ensured the extension of the law until May 2020, bringing the “GEFYRA” programme with which it protected the first residence for green, of course, and also for red borrowers. Of course, we should not forget that SYRIZA was the one who agreed with the lenders to create a holistic vehicle that would unify and unify the bankruptcy and insolvency regime with a commitment to abolish the protection of first residence. I shall repeat, therefore, that the government has given priority to the extrajudicial compromise pillar in the new Banking Code. It obliges creditors to sit at the negotiating table, which is very important and we have introduced for the first time the new mechanism - pan-Europeanly innovative, I would say - of early warning. If the first pillar does not thrive, the second pillar of liquidation protects vulnerable households, subsidizes their rent and is not at risk for borrowers to fly on the road, which, as we all know, has been done in other European countries. The main thing is that their debts are being written off. In fact, then, the law gives a second chance to those who are completely blocked by economic activity and that with the former regime was not possible. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is also - and I conclude, Madam President - a criticism of the opposition and of some other bodies that vulnerable households are being threatened by auctions. L.4738, as I said before, is a protectionist law for vulnerable households, is a law stressing, as I said before, the extrajudicial compromise. Besides, there is already concern for credit institutions to be called on by citizens and to state that they do belong to vulnerable households under the conditions of the law and that the implementation procedures do not go any further. As long as I am able to know, like many colleagues, more than thirty thousand applications for an extrajudicial compromise are already under training, including vulnerable households. The relevant algorithm, which will allow automated procedures to be adjusted, is ready. Arrangement, which, as already known, will benefit from the Greek State's benefit in repaying any instalment to the amount as defined by law. So it is good - I say to all my fellow Members - not to terrorise citizens - I refer to vulnerable households - who need to know that they have very important tools to protect their first residence, as well as to remove all their debts. In conclusion, Madam President, I would like to say this: the government and the relevant ministry emphasise that part of the extrajudicial regulation, which the citizens are already applauding on the basis of the figures I have just mentioned, and all of which is to take the cost of the adverse effects of the auction pile, which, unfortunately, the previous government has done, as I have explained in detail. The former government's out-of-court regulation mechanisms have failed miserably. Applications were minimal or even zero. We correct this with the strong conviction that adverse execution measures will be reduced for all debtors, vulnerable and not, and that cases will be resolved by regulation. Because I have heard some of SYRIZA's colleagues taking lessons of inefficiency and social sensitivity, we are moving on with a plan, with a strategy and a look at the vulnerable and unprivileged. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr President. After we've shut down the speaker's circle, I think we can go to the second grades. Let me ask SYRIZA first. Would you like to be a second, Mr. Colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u145	Yes, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u146	You have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u147	From here, Madam President, or from the Step?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u148	I think it's good to speak from your seats.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u149	We would like to argue, Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, on the subject of the amendments, because the government today, in addition to everything else, has given another lesson in poor legislation. A lot of the provisions and the bill will be voted for. However, we could vote in favour of others if the government had dialogue either with us with society or with the productive players. As for the bill, we are on the subject of the amendments. As far as the amendments are concerned, the government has exceeded every previous one. I've been watching for a long time, but I haven't seen one of those before. So it went beyond every precedent. I said it in my first talk. It is 42 articles in the bill and 224 pages, and it is 24 articles in the amendments and 213 pages. Amendments, which, if you sum them up, are of thirty-one ministers. Some sign different amendments. Congratulations, gentlemen of the Ministry of Finance! The other day we had a Committee on Economic Affairs and the Ministry of Finance was unable to bring the provisions of the Ministry of Finance, the amendments to the Committee on Economic Affairs, but they were brought to the plenary. He filed them yesterday and we had to discuss them today. In too many of these amendments there are positive articles and if the government had chosen another procedure, we could have voted in favour of it. In the amendment, for example, concerning 'Larco', there are serious objections and we confirm what we have said since February 2020 on 'Larco'. So, as far as this amendment is concerned, we could vote for some articles and vote against some other articles, but now you are forcing us to go either to it or to the other amendments to place us in a general position, precisely because you do not want dialogue, you do not want the right legalization, you do not want there to be a consensus and a substance to what we say here. As has also not yet been put before the Government on the amendments, and this, Mr President of the House, also brings us to a political discomfort. The KINAL has also tabled very good amendments which, if they are put to the vote, will be voted on by us, because we believe that they are in the right direction, an amendment has been tabled by us to suspend main residence auctions up to 30-6-2022 for the principal residence of the debtor if the objective value is up to EUR 280,000. We have still not been answered by the government whether it will accept or reject the amendments of the Change Movement and ours in order to put us in place. However, as far as the issues of the amendments are concerned, I shall be placed on them. These are six amendments. All submitted yesterday afternoon from 4 to 8. In Amendment No 972 we are voting in favour. In Amendment No 973 we are voting in favour. In Amendment No 974 we are voting 'the present'. As I said, of course, on this occasion and other amendments, we could vote differently if the Ministry chose another practice, but we understand what the tactic has chosen. In Amendment No 975 we are voting in favour. Amendment No 976 is the amendment to the three articles. Here, Minister, we want to ask something why you did not clarify it. The amendment in question says we should empower you to rent a property to go to a service. We have heard Mr. Dogloukakis saying that 'every euro we are spoiling is a future loan'. So here you bring a provision to house a service that will cost the Greek people 204 000 a year and because public buildings are not for one to two years, we will, as shown by the General Accounting Office, go to a huge exit to house forty-forty or fifty people. How much are you going to house? Because I have a political person next to me who yesterday decided to refer him to a particular subject, that's behind it. Look out, that's what's hiding. Because if there is even one real estate in the public that meets these needs, anyone who brings this amendment from the official who signed the first document up to the minister proposing this amendment will be checked. So I ask you directly to the House that you put it to the vote unless you now state that you are taking it back. Is there a real estate in the state, that is to say, the ownership of the Greek State or the property of the legacy - and because I have been through the Ministry of Finance, I know the situation about the properties and everything else and whenever you want me to point you to properties - is there a real estate of the Greek State that will save the Greek State from 204 000 a year for too many years? Otherwise be careful because we have the experience because of what the dear companion and friend Nikos Pappas went through. So, as far as this issue is concerned, I would ask that we have an answer before the vote. As far as Amendment 977 is concerned, we are voting in favour of the objections to 'LARCO' concerning what we have denounced from February 2020. We don't follow the tactics that you used to follow in the past. There are other positive provisions in the balance sheet that we have tabled. I close, and thank you for the time, with one phrase. We believe that the private debt management dialogue has not been politically closed today. And I invite you as political leadership and Parliament to make this dialogue. Because the question of private debt management is not something that ended today. Today there has been a lot of talk here. In order to respond to the inaccuracies which have been heard - we have tabled documents, the minutes of the House, namely documentary documents - but above all to see how we treat the elephant in the room. By closing eyes, the big private debt problem created by the PASOK - New Democracy, New Democracy - PASOK - is not tackled and SYRIZA has dealt with it in the most effective way. And whenever you want, we have to have a dialogue and say exactly what you want. Thank you for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. The reason is the special speaker of the Change Movement, Mr. Katrinis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Madam President. First of all, you will allow me, because the Ministry of Finance has exhausted its presence, at least in communication, today in the announcement by Minister Stakoura of the thirty-six - seventy-two instalments for the debts due to the pandemic and, because this has been presented as a very great and favourable provision, I would like to remind the Government's officials that we are talking about debts as a whole since January 2020. A large proportion of them will enter thirty-six instalments. How total is the tax debt today that we're talking about? It's 109 billion. How much is the debt in taxi and funds as a whole? It's 150 billion. And the government is here to tell us that it brought thirty-six instalments of interest to the 6 billion people out of 110 and to present it as a very large, beneficial and favourable provision. At the same time, I said before, that a million and fifty thousand taxpayers are under forced collection measures according to the figures of the ADI in the first quarter of 2021, the new dues are 2.14 billion in the first quarter of 2021, the Government, Madam President, which seven months ago told us that with reduced tax rates in the middle of the pandemic it would bring increased revenue in 2021 to come a week just in the medium term to adjust the revenues minus 2 billion, is now coming to present as a beneficial provision the forty-two instalments. On the question of private debt management I really feel afflicted when I hear from representatives of the political system either from the government or unfortunately from colleagues in the New Democracy saying that we have reduced red loans. Here we are not at the conference of the Association of Greek Banks or the Financial Stability Fund or at a financial forum to prove how good technocrats we are and to ask for congratulations. Here we represent the Greek citizens, who are listening to a reduction in red loans, and of course not only have they felt this, but they feel unbearable about the pressures of the services that they 'inherit' these loans. So I would ask you to be a little more careful in your wording, especially when you repeat it by misinforming that we have'reduced red loans'. When you're going to the bankers' conference, tell them to give you congratulations. This is not about Greek citizens. For the Banking Code, we'd said our opposition from the outset. We got no answer today as to when and whether the property acquisition agency is going to be established. We did not get any answer if there would be protection of first home for vulnerable borrowers and suspension of auctions by then. The government refuses to admit that, but all the measures it has taken so far are allegedly counterweight to the lifting of first home protection, they failed one after the other. Participation is much smaller than expected. Of course, we will also expect to see the arrangements of the extrajudicial platform, which the government officials are advertising, Madam President, that they will give four hundred twenty instalments, namely thirty-five years. I don't know if the servicers, the funds have the same view. Will thirty-five years wait for the loans to be paid? But that'll look like it. As far as HARAKLIs is concerned, because today the argument that the "HRAKLIS" and the reduction of red loans in bank balances is increasing liquidity in the real economy, Minister, although I must not address you from the seat, I think that whatever you ask in the real economy today will confirm that it is not at all the case. There is no difference in treating a small- and medium-sized businessman today from the Greek banking system, now that it is July 15, 2021, with the reduction you of the red loans in relation to December 2019, when the first "HRAKLIS" was voted. So this argument does not seem to me to be correct. Furthermore, Madam President, because the State Secretary caused us before, I asked for the floor, but it was not given to me. It has caused us in the good sense - and this is a oxymobile - to put forward a proposal or a counter-proposal in relation to the management of red loans as political parties. It is a little temperate, Mr Secretary, to ask the political parties to table a proposal which, as you say, you are prepared to discuss, at the same time that you have not discussed the proposal that has been tabled by the central banker. You cannot say that you are open and listen to dialogue with parties and ask for a proposal when the central banker has tabled an alternative to the management of red loans, which you stubbornly refuse to discuss. So I think that is nothing but a fascination of supposedly dialogue and consensus. Madam President, I, at least as many years as I have been attending this House, have never happened to me to have no government ministers come in support of the amendments tabled by the bills. That's never happened before. We have six amendments today, and if I am not mistaken, except for Mr Augias who came for Amendment No 974 and Mr Kefaliannis for Amendment No 973, the other four amendments came no Minister to support them. I did not see Mr Panagiotopoulos for 972, I did not see Mr. Georgiadis' amendment. When will you speak, Minister? After the conversation is over?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u152	I'll take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u153	So, Minister, after the debate is over, does the opposition not have the right to ask you, put it in place? The amendments will be passed by the end of the debate. If this is the way to pass the amendments, I am sorry, but you are making a huge mistake. So, Madam President, I think that it should also be noted and transferred to the President of the Parliament, unless the government decided to go on earlier holidays and we do not know that. On 972, which is the amendment to Elefsina-Scaramaga shipyards, we are voting on it. Of course the Prime Minister today met Mr Prokopios, who seems to be the new owner of the Scaramaga shipyard and spoke after many months to secure jobs. Mr Mitsotakis remembered the workers at the Scaramaga shipyard. But the government has not convinced us that it has a structured and structured strategy as a whole for the shipbuilding industry. No solution to the Salamis shipyards, no prospects and, of course, no commitment to the payment of workers at the Scaramaga shipyards, given that they are 180 million, and the government celebrates the total price of 62 billion for both shipyards in Scaramaga, but it does not commit that the wages will be paid or that jobs will be left. For the 975 extension of applications for leases, we had called for it as a Change Movement and obviously we are voting in favour of it. For 976 I would like to say, since both Deputys are here, that in the special management article, Article 3, we should at some point see what we had voted on in Article 40 of Law 4772 concerning the cases of changing the ranking table and I am referring specifically to the employees at the "TLETTYPOS S.A." which the law is in force, at the moment at least one bank institution refuses to implement the law and return the money given to it on the basis of a previous ranking table, which is no longer valid. So that's what we need to see and see if some people are or think they're above the law. For Amendments Nos 976 and 977, Madam President, we shall vote 'at present' because they have provisions which are both positive and negative. The government continues the same unacceptable policy to bring thirteen articles into a text and cannot be placed separately. We shall therefore vote 'the present'. On 975 we shall vote 'yes', on 973 and 972 'yes' and on 974, because there are many questions in particular about the category AOCs, we shall also vote here'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, my colleague. The rapporteur, Mr Amanatidis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much, Madam President. At the meeting this morning, I made a detailed report on the forecasts of the bill. Now, in closing the debate, I would like to make an assessment of what has been heard during the last few days' meetings. First of all, I would like to say that questions have been raised today, but they have already been answered both by the committees and by the House. Secondly, there was no different view of the proposed arrangements for both the HARAKLIS programme and the "Second Opportunities", the bankruptcy code. On the other hand, there was criticism of the respective original laws and of matters which were not the subject of the amendments under the draft law. Therefore, this criticism was not productive. In addition, we have not heard any alternative proposals on the proposed arrangements, particularly at committee meetings, when this government has shown that it is listening to the proposals, assessing them and incorporating them into the draft laws, as long as they serve the objectives of legislating. The Minister said so before, too, I say that it could really be done, but if it could not be done, these arrangements could be taken into account in a subsequent amendment, by improving the arrangements of this draft law. We have also heard wishes from people who are not in the Chamber, but not the way they are achieved. We have heard expressions which are wishful, but which are inappropriate. One thing is certain, when criticism is made on a matter, when this criticism is thoroughly and documented, then it is easier to be heard and also when it is productive, it upgrades the dialogue that is taking place in Parliament and in committees. There have been various issues relating to the main home market by the vulnerable citizen at the end of the lease. In fact, this legislation has been very rigorously considered. In particular, Article 222 of Law 4738 provides for the rescheduling of the rented property by a vulnerable consumer, by a vulnerable citizen, and that is where it provides that there is also the possibility for the vulnerable consumer to rely on housing benefits, such as all vulnerable and as foreseen. I should like to say that, on the basis of Article 222 of Law 4738, the price of the repo will also be provided for in a ministerial decision of the Minister of Finance, specifying, among other things, the rent. The repurchase price by the debtor and the amount paid on the repo must correspond to the commercial value less depreciation costs, of course, because when we say commercial value we mean the value of the property at the time when the assessment is made. It also provides that if the value has been reduced in relation to the price paid by the institution, i.e. the one to sell it back to the debtor, a reasonable adjustment is made for the benefit of the debtor. You realize there are arrangements. The buy-back price is not regulated by the funds, but by the Minister of Finance on the basis of a methodology that will be developed and agreed by everyone. In conclusion, I would like to say that there has indeed been a productive dialogue. The government's consistency with the proposed ones has been demonstrated. It has been shown that it dares to improve the arrangements of the draft laws as they apply and that in the logic of going ahead with issues relating to the country and its individual regions, it is taking initiatives in spite of the crisis, despite the pandemic, in order to leverage the productive powers, the productive resources of the country, in order to lead us to the next era, in the era of recovery using the Recovery Fund, in the era of development using the NRP and in the era of social cohesion between these two funds. That's what I'm saying. I'm closing my denology. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. The Foreign Minister, Mr Zavvos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u157	Madam President, thank you very much. I would like to sum up and respond to a few comments that have been made so far by the honourable Members. The first comment concerns their comments on the Prime Minister's speech the other day at the ECONOMIST conference, in particular the political choices and reports he made. This speech was an average account of a successful two-year period, an account which deleted the dynamic perspective of the Greek economy for this decade. If nothing else has been shown by the government's applied economic policy, especially during the period of an enormously escalated pandemic, it has a political realism, a sensory and knows exactly how to adapt to the real needs of society and the economy. Madam President, I am speaking today on the subject of extending the 'HRAKLE II' law. With this extension and the vote that I hope this House will give very briefly, we will give a great signal of continuity and consistency, particularly to investors, who are very close to what is happening in the Greek banking system. I would like to say that only by announcing approval by the Commission of 'HRAKLE II', we had respondent upgrades of the Greek banks. You realise that this is where the secret of this extension lies, because it strengthens the confidence that we need more than anything else at this very moment when the economy is in a new phase and opens up a new dynamic perspective for the banking system. Obviously, the opposition said: 'Don't talk about reducing red loans.' But the reduction of red loans is a tangible, comprehensive, successful reform recognized by investors, banks, all the European institutions you know and even support it very much and the benefits of which the Greek economy sees day after day, as it reduces the cost of borrowing. So it's something that the Greek Government is proud of. After all - and that is why I am saying again - the Prime Minister said that it is one of the three most important conditions for the country to make the leap of this decade. Of course in economies, as you know, at least in the open market economies, there are no automations that press the button and from one day to the next reduce the cost of borrowing. Madam President, they said a number of things about HERAKLES. I would, however, like to go to the essence of this and to the scope of this reform. HERAKLIS is, in fact, a social legal measure, a socially just reform. Because HERAKLIS does not affect vulnerable ones, does not evacuate, does not change the legal status. On the contrary, when you see, you will understand that the banks are pressing for the first time to chase the systematic batters. If that's not to the benefit of the world and the taxpayer, then tell me exactly what it is. And when we talk about servicers, we are talking about a new market that opens up, a new mechanism. In essence, by putting their capital into practice, arrangements are made which banks could not make until now. There have therefore been hundreds of thousands of new arrangements for many of our fellow citizens. Another issue that they raised against Coron - I would say - at this time is the issue of deferred tax, a subject that is quite difficult, quite inconvenient, even if you wish to see the experts considered. The deferred tax was a regulation that took place at the time of the Eurozone crisis. Deferred tax is a capital that counts as core capital in banks. Some say that it is not a guarantee of better quality and that it needs improvement. Obviously, he needs an improvement, that is, his quality. But the question is this: What is the best way to make exactly the qualitative improvement of the deferred tax? I would like to say here that we are seeing it through two basic methods. One is the substantial reduction in red loans, because when red loans are reduced, there is no fear of the deferred tax being triggered and therefore public entry into the bank's capital. This is currently avoided by the drastic reduction in red loans. The second is that there is no question of deferred tax on substance, and there is no risk of increasing the profitability of banks, i.e. when the conditions exist, such as those which are now created by the influx of resources from the Recovery Fund and the improvement of the macroeconomic environment of the Greek economy. I agree with Mr Alexiadis in relation to what he said, but I think we are constantly having this debate on private debt. Private debt has different parameters. He has the loans to the banks, he has the loans to the public, he has the loans to the insurance funds. We, as you have seen, have and implement an overall effective private debt reduction policy with tangible results. Finally, Madam President, I would like to say something Mr Kourublis said, making some asymmetric hints about my speech in the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs. I would like to say again that, in well-functioning parliamentary democracies with representative systems, there are no ministers or State secretaries of limited responsibility and legitimacy, because everyone in this House, at the National Representation, is the highest respect we owe to democracy. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. The Foreign Minister now has the floor, Mr Besiropoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, the relationship between credibility and trust between the government and the large majority of the Greek people has been built, maintained and strengthened every day for two years. Reliability requires measurable work being assessed by the citizens, who take into account not only the work and the practices of all of us, but also the behaviours and behaviours of all the issues from the management of the pandemic and the attitude taken by everyone on the issue of vaccination until the adoption of policies and proposals with a reference point not in the past but in the future. The e-commerce bill is the adaptation of national legislation to Council Directives 2455/2017 and 1995/2019 amending the VAT Directive 112/2006. The provisions of the draft law provide for special arrangements through which VAT due within the European Union will be paid electronically. In practice this means that each undertaking abroad that sells products from a distance to private consignee in the European Union is obliged to pay the VAT on behalf of the Member State in which the goods are received and at the VAT rate in force in the Member State - the private customer. One example to be understood by everyone: Private buys electronically a pair of shoes from Germany. While it would have been charged with the VAT rate in force in Germany, i.e. 19% now its market will be charged with the relevant VAT rate in Greece, i.e. 24%. VAT, i.e. in the private sector. I have referred in detail to all the provisions of the draft law on electronic commerce during my speech to the Standing Committee on Economic Affairs, and also to the questions of the institutions. But the draft was tabled by the Ministry of Finance yesterday, the amendment with a general number of 977 and a specialist of 160, to which I shall refer before the National Representation. I have been given the opportunity many times to stress that the government is constantly weighing up the data and updating where the support measures are needed to address the financial consequences of the pandemic. This rule is reflected in Article 1 of the amendment establishing the full exemption from the obligation to pay a rent and for the month of July for enterprises where restrictive operating measures are imposed at the end of June, such as businesses in culture, sport, activities related to the organisation of events and exhibitions, leisure parks and businesses which remain closed with a public mandate. In addition, they are part of the relevant regulation and the gymnasiums for which an activity ban has been in place until recently and still operate under significant restrictions. At the same time, the payment of a reduced rent of 40% applies only to the principal residence of workers suspended in July and to the residence of those dependent. The government, as everyone knows, even within the pandemic, is reducing tax burdens. Under Article 2 of the amendment, 6% of digital books are included in the excess VAT rate. We all know that the purchase of books in digital form is growing and will grow even further in the coming years as well in our country. This regulation applies to European Directive 47/2009 which provided for a reduced rate of VAT not only for books in paper form but also for books in cd, cd-rom, dvd and usb. A similar possibility is provided by Directive 1713/2018 and the electronically provided publications of books falling within point 6 of Annex 3 to Directive 112/2006 on VAT. As far as the next Article 3 of the amendment is concerned, it is noted that some of the products intended for focus have either not been consumed in the previous period or have been returned to the sellers. For the most vulnerable of them, such as beer products, the date limiting their consumption has expired. In accordance with that Article, the possibility of reimbursement or set-off of excise duty established and collected by customs for beer products which after being placed on the market and for the suspension of the operation of the catering shops and their late date of consumption has been returned to the seller. The proprietor of the refund or of the offsetting shall be the person who paid the excise duty which may apply to the customs office. Article 4 establishes the destruction of the stocks of old branded tobacco films which could not be used after 20 May 2019, as tobacco films and security features of Article 106b of the national Customs Code after that date. With the next article, Article 5 of the amendment deals with an important safety issue related to seized energy products and flammable and dangerous materials. A flexible and exceptional procedure is laid down in the national Customs Code for the destruction of these materials which pose risks to public safety and the environment, and so far there has been a corresponding financial burden on their preservation and management. The strengthening of the validity and reliability of the State audit mechanisms and in particular the officials of the General Directorate of the IAEA is now supported by the renewed staff identities they will display in the performance of their duties. The relevant provision is contained in Article 6 of the Amendment and the next Article 7 gives the necessary references to Articles 9 and 13 of the ADP Special Payroll Act. The second chapter of the amendment contains provisions simplifying the framework for the registration fee and the immobilisation of vehicles. In particular, Article 8 repeals a special committee to determine the taxable value for the imposition of the registration fee for motor vehicles and for the calculation of the historical registration fee established by the earlier provisions and is now unnecessarily implemented after the rationalisation of the relevant institutional framework. With Article 9 we allow disabled people to proceed with the replacement of a vehicle which has suffered a total destruction with exemption from the registration fee and before the expiry of the current restricted period of customs supervision, which is the seven years. Article 10 contains a significant improvement and addition to the provisions of Article 16 of Law 1798/1988 on exemption from the registration fee and the registration fees of certain categories of disabled persons. This arrangement now includes end-stage heart failure patients as well as pulmonary transplanters in the categories of AMEs who are entitled to exemption from the registration fee and passenger car traffic charges. Article 11 further simplifys the framework for the immobilisation of vehicles since this procedure is provided for in the registers of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport without requiring prior action in the DU to remove immobilisation. Finally, the last article of the amendment provides for an extension of the deadline for the specific management of LARCO, provided that the transfer procedure of at least 75% of the total company's assets is not completed as a book value within one year of the end of the arbitration procedure. In this case the special management shall be deemed to have expired and the special administrator shall be required to submit an application for the bankruptcy of the undertaking. In the event of bankruptcy of the company’s entity pending the disposal of part or all of the liquidation product to the creditors, it is foreseen that the management is carried out by the insolvency practitioner who assumes the responsibility for distribution to the beneficiary creditors in accordance with the ranking table drawn up in accordance with the conditions laid down in Article 21 of Law No4664/2020 and that such distribution is not subject to bankruptcy. As you can see from the contents of the provisions in the amendments which I have just described, these are provisions with a positive social figure which must be a field of convergence of all the political forces. Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment by the Ministry of National Defence of 972 and a special 155 to the draft law of the Ministry of Finance contains two provisions relating to the continuation of support for shipyard work carried out at Elefsina Shipyards, the completion of the construction of the remaining high-speed patrol guided missiles and the continuation of work on the four submarines of the Hellenic Navy Pipe, Matrozos, Katsonis and Ocean at the Scaramaga Shipyards. Legislative response to this issue is necessary in order to improve the assessment of the effort carried out so far for the performance of the warships in the Navy as soon as possible. The arrangement is part of the measures taken by the Ministry to continuously increase the militarity of the Armed Forces and to protect the supreme good of national security. In this direction, the present arrangements of the Ministry of National Defence are in progress. In particular, the first provision aims to complete the missile construction programme No. 7, Russen of the Hellenic Navy. The program is based on the tripartite agreement between the Hellenic Navy, the company "Navy and Industrial Enterprises Elefsina S.A." and its employees ratified on February 1, 2016, by Article 32 of Law No.4361/2016. The construction programme and the payment by the Navy of the monthly wages of employees were extended until 30 June 2021. This extension concerned rocket-fire number. 6 attributed to the Navy. For the completion of the shipbuilding project and the performance of the missile, no. 7, an extension of the programme is required by three months and an additional allocation of up to EUR 3 million of EUR 175 000 for: First payroll and insurance contributions for workers; secondly, operating and staff travel services; and thirdly, materials and services for the completion of the programme. The prolongation of the programme for the construction and construction of the nuclear power station is no. 7 and the additional funding will make a decisive contribution to the implementation of the tasks required for the definitive operational indication of the ship in the Navy. The second provision relates to the programme for the completion of the necessary tasks and tests for the certification and operational integration of the submarines Pipine, Matrozos, Katsoni and Oceanos located in the areas of HSY in Scaramaga. Article 26 of Law 4258/2014 provides for the completion of such tasks and tests by the Hellenic Navy and the employees of HSY. To this end, additional appropriations have been made available under successive legislation. The submarines have completed most of the intended functional tests. In order to complete the remaining operations and tests at sea for the operational performance of submarines, additional funding is required, as well as the prolongation of legal commitments for expenditure up to September 2021. In view of the expiry of the corresponding extension granted under Article 249 of Law 4798/2021 until June 2021. The additional allocation of up to 10 million 300 000 euros concerns: first, payroll and insurance contributions for workers. Secondly, the shipyard operating costs and third, technical support and materials for the completion of the submarine programme. This extension will allow a significant proportion of the remaining operations and tests of submarines to be completed, as well as to address any damage to the new systems with the assistance of the workers and the facilities offered by the Scaramaga shipyard infrastructure. Continuing work at HSY facilities is considered necessary due to the know-how of the shipyard workers in order to render the submarines to the Hellenic Navy as soon as possible for full operational utilisation. The integrity of the Armed Forces and the high level of their deterrent ability are data and is demonstrated daily. These regulations will further stimulate these important parameters for the successful completion of their mission. It is therefore necessary to vote in favour. With regard to Amendment No 975 and a special 158 tabled by the Ministry of Development and Investment, I note: The first article of the amendment extends the deadline for the submission of statements by employees of professional premises falling within the scope of Presidential Decree No 34/1995 and Article 13 of Law No 4242/2014, which had been suspended by a State mandate in the context of measures to limit and deal with the dispersion of the CVID -19. The previous provision has until 30 April 2021, and this deadline for submitting the declarations is now to be carried over on 31 July 2021, due to the conditions created by the pandemic. The second article of the amendment seeks to reduce unfair profitability in crisis, because of the COVID pandemic -19. The regulation aims to revive the provision of Article 21 of the Act of 20 March 2020, which was ratified by Article 1 of Law No4683/2020 and extended by Article 110 of the Act. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. In particular, it aims at repressive control of stubbornness phenomena for the sale of first-demand species while the COVID pandemic lasts -19 and by 31 December 2021 as long as the health crisis continues. Colleagues, the day before yesterday we had a very important and positive development, the approval by the Board of Finance Ministers of the European Union of the Greek programme for the exploitation of the resources of the recovery fund. This means that the first EUR 4 billion will be disbursed for our country in this month. Most importantly, however, it means that the implementation of our development plan begins. Greece creates the conditions for strong and sustainable growth. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis puts the country in a new era, strengthens investment and growth, creates a new sustainable development and productive model, moves forward to essential and major reforms, liberates the creative forces of the Greeks. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles, amendments and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Finance is adjourned: ‘(a) Incorporation into Greek legislation of the provisions of Directives (EU) 2017/2455, (EU) 2019/1995 and (EU) 2018/1910 in respect of obligations arising from value added tax for the provision of services and sales of goods remotely and related arrangements — (b) Amendments to Law 4649/2019 ‘Support programme for credit institutions’ (A’206), under C(2021) 2545/09.04.2021 (021/N) of the European Commission's approval decision to extend the programme ‘HRAKLES’ - (c) Provisions for the adjustment of debts and the provision of a second opportunity - Amendments to the n. 4738/2020 and other provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the principle of the bill, forty-one articles, six amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Make sure that you have passed all the articles, amendments, the hotel article and the entire bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u161	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u162	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u163	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: ‘(a) Incorporation into Greek legislation provisions of Directives (EU) 2017/2455, (EU) 2019/1995 and (EU) 2018/1910 with regard to obligations arising from value added tax for services and sales of goods remotely and related arrangements - (b) Amendments to the Law. (c) Provisions for the adjustment of debts and the provision of a second opportunity - Amendments to Law No.4738/2020 and to other provisions - d) Other urgent provisions for the competence of the Ministries of Development and Investment, National Defence, Culture and Sport, Infrastructure and Transport - were accepted by a simple majority, in principle, of articles and all of the following:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u164	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u165	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-15-S1-commons.u166	With the consent of the House at 18.36 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 16 July 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent questions.
