ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] Today we have extensive parliamentary control, several topical questions. I would, however, like to see your permission, before parliamentary scrutiny begins, and before the Secretary of Parliament, Mr Kyranakis, reads the references to this House, I should like to refer to an important anniversary event that is linked to today, since we entered the year 2021, that is to say, when we celebrate the two hundred years of the revolution, which has been combined with the liberation of our country. We will try as a parliament to participate in these celebrations. Obviously, pandemic in the first few months will be decisive for the extent of our contributions to our exhibitions and events. We hope, however, that as long as this time is over, we will be able to cut off and live - and not just online - to honour this unprecedented anniversary. Like today - in order to change the atmosphere -, ladies and gentlemen, as it is known, the event precursor, the precursor of the 1821 Revolution to the ruling heirs by Alexander Ypsilant, who, after resigning from the service of the Tsar Alexander, crossed the Danube tributary, which was the limits between Russia and the Ottoman Empire, and walked towards the capital of Moldova, Jasio. There's Romania today. The crossing of the Pruthus river is the anniversary that we honor today as a Greek Parliament and which started a match that lasted nine months in Moltowa, from February to September 1821. This struggle was historically considered to be a major distraction that facilitated the Revolution, and its declaration and its conduct, in southern Greece. Ypsilante did not win in Moltoblasty, but significant moral trophys were set in Draghsani, Sekkos Monastery and elsewhere, in such a way that all these developments, all this nine months - I repeat - facilitate the good outcome of the Revolution in the first year from its declaration and until the time of the first National Assembly, on January 1, 1822, in Epidaurus, our ancestors declared their national independence. We are honoured and remembered as a Parliament that memory, that course. We honor the proclamation which two days later was issued by Ypsilant in Jasio, which is kept in the National and Historical Museum in the old Parliament. And we are sure that, in spite of the difficulties of the pandemic, this shocking anniversary, the existential anniversary for our country, for our state, for our nation will be honored in an appropriate way. I would like to give the Secretary of State for three minutes the floor, before the beginning of the agenda, to the Secretary of State for Education and University Professor, Mr. Syragos, to report as an academic and responsible State Secretary for Education on this important anniversary today. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as the President has said today, on 22 February 1821 Alexander Ypsilant crossed the Profythos river, the natural limit between Russia and the pawning hegemonies. He was expected by the ruler Mikhail Sutsu's guard who accompanied him to Jasio where he set up a camp. Two days later on February 24, 1821 he issued the famous Greek declaration for the release of tyranny from Ottoman tyranny: "Machust for faith and patridos". It was the spark that in a few weeks there would be a fire. The choice of hegemones was important. The revolution of 1821 did not have foreign organizers. The leadership of the Philosophy Society, realizing the inconceivable size of the project, unarmed peasants against an empire, tried through the daring in Moltobly to lure Russia into the struggle for Greek independence. The Russians didn't come. As Ypsilant himself observed in a letter in October 1820: "I know, in all hearts this vanity of prevention is rooted in that we never prevent ourselves from being freed, but we must expect from strangers our salvation. You always have before eyes, that a stranger never helps a stranger without greater profits. The blood which foreigners want to pour through us, we want to pay for it more accurately." Let it be an eternal lesson, let it be the particular observation of the Highlander. Nobody's coming to fight our fight, our war. And the battle of Navarin, could anyone oppose it? Indeed, in the battle of Navarin foreigners came and gave decisive impetus to our independence. But that was in October 1827. They had already preceded more than six years of Greek revolutionary life. Without the revolution, without the battles, without the Greek blood shed until October 1827, there would be no Navarino. Furthermore, in confirming what Ypsilantis said, the foreign intervention we have paid for most - more precisely, as Highlandantes said - with the guarantor powers or with the three parties that we have built in the free Greek state, English, French and Russian. The revolution did not, of course, succeed in pawning hegemonies. Because it was a national liberation revolution, it succeeded where it could succeed, in the areas where Hellenism lived. Because the revolution has been a Greek case since the beginning. The expectations that other Christians would be mobilised to dismantle the Turkish yoke, such as the inhabitants of the Moltolic, the Serbs, the Bulgarians, have not been verified. Religion determined the identity of the enslaved enslaved. But it did not work automatically on the shape of enslaved Christians against their Muslim conquerors. The crucial point was the Greek national conscience. The dominant role in maintaining it during the four centuries of slavery was played by the Church. In 1821 those who felt Greeks rebelled to gain their freedom against the Ottoman Empire. Subsequently, the Greek state formed after the Revolution was the state institution of a particular culture under conditions of freedom. Karaiskakis, Kolokotronis, Mark Botsaris, did not fight in general to create a modern European state. They rebelled to create a Greek state, a state that, then and now, cannot be neutral against the Greek identity of its inhabitants. The Highest in his vision, as reflected in the revolutionary declaration of February 24, 1821, concludes: "The nation assembled will elect its Democrats, and to this highest parliament all our actions will be subject to." Today’s Greek Parliament is the child of that proclamation. Ladies and gentlemen, as today, two hundred years ago, February 22, 1821, Alexander Ypsilant crossed the river. That's how it all started! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The professor has the floor, Mr. Katrugalos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u4	First of all, we congratulate you on this initiative which you have taken and on showing historical memory. We also consider these dates to be particularly important. In fact, 21 February we have the first event in Galachi from the there head of the Russian consulate and the first body of rebels. Today - as you and the Undersecretary have rightly said - Pruthos Ypsilantis and the next day we have his promotion in which he calls for a revolution of all Hellenism. I would like to add to you that this proposal has been formulated on the date of the notice, namely, 23 February, to be declared as the day of the Hellenism of the Dispersion, which is a much wider and more correct concept of following it from the Day of Protest. It is a proposal tabled by the Association of "Biron", head of which is the historic left official, Panos Trigazis. He's been back in the public dialogue with his writing lately and I think he needs to look into it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Mr. Catrugale for your intervention. The proposal you mentioned has been tabled shall be recorded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u6	So we shall proceed after this necessary prologue on the agenda. I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, the reports have been read out. I would like to inform you that MP Mr Takis Theodorikos asks for permission from this House to be absent from Greece on Thursday, February 25, 2021 and Friday, February 26, 2021. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u8	The House therefore approved the requested permission.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u9	Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the debate on QUESTIONS In his letter the Secretary-General of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs informs the House that the questions to be discussed are as follows: The number 407/8-2-2021, 419/12-2-2021, 423/14-2-2021, 426/14-2-2021, 428/15-2-2021, 432/15-2-2021, 443/15-2021 and 444/15-2-2021 topical questions, which will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr.Koros Kontozamanis. The question under number 437/15-2-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vesiropoulos. No. No. PRESIDENT. — The next item is the joint debate on the following motions for resolutions: 2433/7-12-2020 question (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. The numbers. Questions Nos 425/14-2-2021 and 442/15-2-2021 1636/353/11-11-20 Question (under Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs Mr Zoe Makreis. The numbers. 418/12-2-2021, 434/15-2-2021 and 436/15-2-2021 topical questions will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr Evangelos Syrigos. The numbers. 416/12-2-2021, 427/15-2-2021, 435/15-2-2021 and 440/15-2-2021 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. The numbers. 2957/28-12-2020 and 3090/434/7-1-2021 questions (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy Mr George Amyras. No. No. 413/10-2-2021 topical question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Georgios Kotsiras. We are now entering the debate of the first under number 413/10/22021 on a topical question from MP B1's North Athens section of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. George Katrugalos to the Minister of Justice, on the subject: 'Why is the debate in the House on the legislative proposal for the compliance of Greece with the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights (EDC) of the European Court of Justice?' Mr Katrugalos' timely question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Justice Mr. Georgios Kotsiras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Madam President. Mr Minister, as you know, we are one of the countries that is delaying the implementation of the judgments of the Court of Human Rights and in some cases we are among those countries which do not apply them, as the common European law imposes, at the level of civil liberties, the individual rights established by the Court of Justice in Strasbourg. We are, unfortunately, among the five countries that have the worst relevant register. This is inconsistent with the quality of the rule of law in Greece and must obviously be corrected. It also has significant economic costs. We pay tens of millions of euros each year because we have not complied with these obligations. The Committee on Compliance with Parliament's decisions, together with the Committee on European Affairs, has taken an important supra-party initiative. It tabled almost unanimously a proposal for a law, which incorporates the relevant proposal of the Legal Council of State, so that we have the necessary legal instruments to prevent this unacceptable situation from continuing. Although more than a year has passed since this proposal for a law has been tabled in the House, and although all other conditions have been fulfilled - the reports of the General Accounting Office - the Ministry of Justice, which is the expedited Ministry - although there is a cohabitation of other ministries, especially the Ministry of Civil Protection - is delaying this proposal for a law to be debated in this House. Does the Ministry therefore ask why is this delay which has a significant impact on both the image of our country abroad and on the quality of our legal culture, but also a significant economic impact, as I said before, given that we are paying tens of millions of euros that we could have avoided?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Madam President. With regard to the timely question tabled by my colleague, Mr Katrugalos, on the legislative initiative he refers to, I should first like to stress that the reasons he gives to the Ministry of Justice are, in the first instance, incomplete. This is because, as he knows, the Ministry does not alone have the responsibility for such a proposal, and the proposed arrangements also concern competences of other ministries, other than the Ministry of Justice. Therefore, the institutional involvement of the Ministry of Justice is exhausted in responses of a much more procedural nature, without any further competence to delay or speed up any legislative process, which is progressing independently. Beyond this, however, in substance, as mentioned in the more general situation with regard to the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights, it is essential to state that it is express and express the will of the Ministry of Justice to implement the judgments of the European Court of Justice, a will which is actively reflected in the valuable progress made in 2020 in the implementation of the judgments of the European Court of Human Rights. As regards the implementation of these judgments in Greek cases, the pending cases were reduced to 38.5%, according to the official figures in the annual report published every year by the Court of Justice. In particular, on 1 January 2021 the number of irreversible decisions against Greece amounted to a hundred and twenty, compared with a hundred ninety-five on the respective 2020 date, thirty-eight on the 2019 respectively date and three hundred and five in 2018. We must not, therefore, ignore the fact that in recent years the number of irresponsible decisions has declined steadily, which is particularly positive for the image of the country in the organisation. The individual and general implementation measures taken and their progress are fully presented in the action plans and the relevant action assessment reports prepared by the Legal Council of State, which are consistently and effectively supported by the permanent Greek delegation both at the Human Rights Conferences of the Committee of Ministers and in the regular communication with the Administration of the Secretariat of the Committee of Ministers. The Ministry of Justice, therefore, within the framework of its competences, has become a help in promoting and ensuring the implementation of the law in accordance with the guarantees of the Council of Europe. I mentioned earlier that the proposed articles are also shared competences from other ministries, other than the Ministry of Justice. For example, five of the twelve are the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, the Ministry of Development and the Ministry of Civil Protection, while for the other articles relating to the competences of the Ministry of Justice, I assure you that either they have already been legislated or legislative initiatives have already been taken to amend them through the Ministry's Legislative Committees, working groups and in cooperation with other bodies. This is obviously the case with a classified prioritising of these cases. Therefore, I consider that the common objective that is actually the country's compliance with its decision-making obligations and is achieved and will continue to be achieved. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u14	Dear Minister, the non-registration of the proposal for a law in question constitutes a direct violation of Article 74(6) of the Constitution, which states that once a month on a day specified in the Rules are placed on the agenda in a order of priority and pending legislative proposals are discussed. You were right to say that this bill has functions of other ministries. The most important thing, however, is the Ministry of Justice, because of the nature of the matter. I would like you to expressly point out to this House this: even if you do not want to enter the bill, do you object as Ministry of Justice that this proposal for a law should be signed by the President of Parliament, as required by the Constitution? I want an explicit answer to that question. Because if you do not respond specifically, in fact you take the burden of unconstitutionalism, which has taken place so far seven times. Because seven months have passed since it should be introduced, as the Constitution explicitly states, this particular proposal for a law. To say again the important consequences of this delay. As the Legal Council of State informs us, forty-five per cent of the 20 judgements of the court would be filed if this proposal were accepted. Let me stress again that the author of the proposal is precisely the legal representative of the State, the Legal Council of State, what appears to be defending the interests of the country. Minister, you are faced with an unprecedented manifestation of cooperation between almost all the parties in this House, proposing that this proposal be accepted. This is unprecedented in parliamentary matters. So, with your certainty, working with the services of this House is perpetuating an unacceptable regime, which also has a significant financial harm to the public. Again in contact with the Legal Council of State I was informed that we have already paid EUR 1 million in compensation to the court, which we could have avoided, if we had voted in favour of this almost unanimous proposal of Parliament. To conclude, you have an obligation to be present and not to evade for constitutional reasons, for reasons of respect for Parliament in view of it - as I have said - an unprecedented consensus which has been reached on a matter of national importance and of course to protect both our country's prestige and its integration into the common European legal culture, but obviously also the economic interests of the public. This is not a period for the millions of Greek people to be spent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleague, I think you understand that defending the country's prestige and the country's position in European and international justice is evidenced by the results. I mentioned to you - and I did not hear you mention it as a reward for the country in this context - that, as far as the implementation of the decisions of the HRR is concerned - I say this again to remember - on 1 January 2021 the number of decisions to be taken against Greece amounted to one hundred and twenty, in 2020 in ninety-five, the corresponding date of the previous year in two hundred eight and in 2018 in three hundred five. So respect, self-evident respect for all of us, I believe, in the image of the country and its position in the European and international are proved by works, by actions, and that is what I think goes through the legislative initiative as a whole. As far as I am concerned - I say again - one of them has already been legislated. For the rest concerning the Ministry of Justice, I told you beforehand that the legislative procedure is still in progress in order to legislate in the future. The others relate to the competence of other ministries. Therefore, because I think that the objective is common, what we are interested in is not party confrontation for a common objective, which is indeed the country's compliance with the case-law of the European Court of Human Rights and the strengthening of the country in the context of image and substance. So the way it will be legislated is concrete. From that point on, the Ministry of Justice will take those initiatives for other cases as well. However, I do not want - and I say again - to create impressions when the cases pending for implementation in 2018 were three hundred and today, according to the annual report of the European Court of Human Rights, it is a hundred and twenty. Respect is, therefore, obvious and the will to legislate on the outstandings is also obvious. And I'm telling you that, as you asked me right from the start. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, too, Minister. We will now be discussing the first question by number 2957/22-2020 from the references - questions by the Member of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Charis) Mamoulakis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject of the need to upgrade the Environment Inspectorate. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for the Environment and Energy, George Amyras. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, on the basis of Chapter 4.5.2. of the well-known report of the Pissaridis Committee, one of the main problems of spatial planning and environmental protection is in fact the weakness of the environmental audit system. In particular, the report, which has become a gospel on the government's policy making - and especially environmental - recommends to the Greek authorities that the existing environmental inspection be made an independent authority free of the influence of the political leadership concerned for the more effective exercise of its tasks. The report also refers to the small size of this environmental inspection and to the degradation of its institutional strength in relation to the importance of its work. At the same time, the report is based on your own policy. One of your first political actions with the final state was essentially the undervaluation of environmental inspection, a devaluation created by a special secretariat downgrading to a mere service of the RIS. And of course, the law on "Investing in Greece" guaranteed the possibility for a few private offices with experience in environmental matters to effectively create the environmental licenses, where the committee, environmental inspection, will later come, to check whether they are being executed. And, of course, the amendment of Law 4014/2011 provides for the reduction of the fees to be paid to the State in cases of award of an environmental licensing project. Analogous contraction - third in a row - with your specific legislative initiatives for the business of environmental inspectors is provided for by Articles 124 and 125 of the recent law - environmentally-friendly we - of planning and urban legislation, through which the few inspectors who already, unfortunately, exist are charged with additional bureaucratic services, thereby further preventing their ability to impose their basic, fundamental work. Minister, it is given the difficulty for the Greek public administration to respond to the new challenges posed by the climate - criminal, as we see - change and, of course, the climate crisis. It is also clear that the European Commission's orientation is to shield European economies from the new and great environmental risks that govern it. In view of these, then, I ask two questions: Do you intend to strengthen environmental inspection by personnel, resources and equipment in order to ensure the environmental protection of our country? And, secondly, what is the design and procedure you will follow to strengthen human resources in the existing service and what are the specific incentives that you might think to trigger interest, to directly serve the service, so as to finally become a arm for development and forging public interest through environmental protection? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Madam President. Mr President, my dear colleague, Mr Mamulaki, I am very pleased that you and another twenty-nine Members of the European Parliament have tabled the question you have tabled - a total of thirty - members of the SYRIZA, that is more than one/3 of your parliamentary group. In fact, I do not hide from you, Madam President, that I was very surprised by this question, since you invoke the Pissaridis project, which you have fuelled at every opportunity. Your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, has described this as an extreme neoliberal plan. And you come here today, 30 Members of the SYRIZA, to invoke it as a measure that we must take into account. Of course we have taken into account the Pissaridis project, but above all, I would say that it would be a very good move, and from you to your dentistry, to tell us that you accept at least one of the proposals of the Pissaridis project, so that there is also a fertile dialogue here. I shall therefore respond to all that you have raised, one by one. First of all, you referred to Articles 124 and 125 of the recent law on spatial and urban legislation, namely Law 4759, saying that we are putting a burden on the service of environmental inspectors in these two articles. I'm sorry to say it, but here you are not well informed. These two articles and this law that you call for as an obstacle and difficulty as a burden for environmental inspectors is the incorporation of another law, of Law 4512/2018 and of Article 127, of a law that you voted in favour of, the SYRIZA Government. So this law of SYRIZA, which we incorporated with these two articles in our next legislative provision into Law 4759, regulates the general framework, the general principles for the supervision and control of the economic activities of the product in which environmental inspectors belong. So we're taking this aside, since we didn't do anything other than what you did. Now let's go down to talk about the substance of the audits. There are three hundred members of the Ministry of Environment and Energy, the decentralised administrations and the regions of the country, who are responsible for environmental audits. So let us also take a retrogression to see what has been done every year, and I am referring to the last year's figures. Three thousand environmental audits have been carried out and of course they impose penalties and fines depending on the infringements they see. We, of course, upgraded and upgraded, and we aim to strengthen the College of Inspectors and Auditors and the law on the state at last. So here's what we did. First of all, the special secretariat you yourself set up as a mere special secretariat - and I will tell you then in my dentistry, as well as Mr Femello, who I see is particularly interested in this issue and says various things - unfortunately he has broken - and I am sorry to say it - the law that you have passed on to the register of directors, namely Law No.4369/2016. Because I'm going to tell you what this law said about this special secretariat. We made this special secretariat a Directorate-General with the authorization of the previous Minister. It was directly followed by the Secretary-General of our Ministry, namely the Natural Environment and Water, and we supported it by a director-general headed by the two directorates-generals of environmental inspectors, namely South and Northern Greece. So what did you guys do? The special secretariat, according to your law, the law on the registry of executives, had made a competition and had chosen the final three of the candidates who would claim this post. Unfortunately, however, you have not even respected this law that you had voted for and you have chosen directly the then existing special secretary who then had these debts and put it in the same position. In any case, we are interested in the College of Inspectors - Auditors, because we know very well how important their work is for the protection of the environment, for the protection of biodiversity and for our fight against climate change, but also for the adjustment of the Greek economy to the 'cyclical' economy, for its transition to another model. The rest I'll tell you in my dentistry. Thank you, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u21	Me too, Minister. Here, Mr Mamulaki, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Minister, I take the opportunity to return to the issue of the Pissaridis committee, because the committee itself in these environmental verses draws you, let me express, the ear, on all your policies. It puts you a red card on the three main issues that concern and are based on the government's environmental policies. First, the ultimate state. Unbelievable humiliation, degradation of the service, which is instantly transformed from a special secretariat to a simple RIS service unit. Secondly, "I invest in Greece". I told you again that to charge a few privately, unfortunately, in the country experienced offices by drawing up all these studies and, of course, the environmental inspection obviously has to check them out, and it is not in line with the logic and the underselling that exists in the service. You referred to the many checks, three thousand in number. So, what are you telling us? That it's enough for the agency to do that? You know, the secondments end shortly on the part of the previous government which had taken care of by specific procedures - I will tell you what they were - the armouring, as we see it, of the protection of the environment and the Environment Inspection. The third question is this: I have referred to Articles 124 and 125, not to the 127 that you mentioned at the edge of the speech, if any. But let's go to the big one. You raised 70% - over 70% - of your time to return to opposition, opposition to yesterday. "Fresh cookies, says the cookie," as they just say to me in my village. The question is what we are doing now. The question raised for the second time on my part, Mr Minister, is this: do you really intend to listen to all the social and economic actors and other countries that are all telling you really one thing, namely to upgrade the Environment Inspectorate? After all, I think that, recently, at a meeting you had with the Association of Greek Studies, this was precisely the move you referred to, in this need. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, by summing up - so that I do not abuse time any further - I would like to raise the matter again, because that is the issue for us. We cannot debate in the year 2021 for seventeen employees in this service, a service which is under its responsibility and is responsible for all the serious environmental issues relating to our country. It is - and I imagine we will agree on it - hopelessly dehydrated the service in question. I therefore think that, if anything, it is clear - I stress it - the issue and the need to strengthen it. So will you do the right thing for that? Because the question has remained unanswered, I hope you will now seize the opportunity and answer it clearly. Is it in your political will to upgrade with specific acts and policies of this Environmental Inspection Service? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u23	And I thank you for being consistent in time. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Madam President. My dear colleague, I begin with the last questions on top. You spoke of seventeen, all and all, environmental inspectors all over Greece. I would like to ask you - so that we have a comparison - how much these members were in your day. That's the one prisoner. Second, it's not seventeen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u25	It's seventeen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u26	Unfortunately, you're not well informed. Perhaps your partners don't know them that well. We have sixty-sixty environmental inspectors, who are executives with audit responsibilities of the Directorate-General of the RIS Board of Inspectors and auditors. The thirty-four employees are responsible for environmental audits, of which - as you probably have made the mistake - the seventeen are serving at the Environment Inspectorate Department of the South of Greece. So you think the seventeen inspectors in the Southern Greek Body are covering all of Greece. It's not like that. We have 11 more in the Northern Greece Inspection Department and we also have six in the Environmental Damage Coordinating Office. Please add, please, to the number of sixty one - far from the number of seventeen you mentioned - and the twenty-seven employees in the Chamber of Inspectors belonging to the Energy Inspectorate, the Medals Inspectorate, the Building and Demolition Departments. They do environmental checks, too. Don't underestimate their work! Let's go to the next theme you said about the "Investing in Greece". I am sorry to tell you that the "Invest in Greece" Act does not regulate issues of dealing with environmental inspectors. That's not true. There's nothing to talk about in this. You are obviously referring to Article 15 of Law 4635/2019, namely the "Invest in Greece", which, my dear colleague, regulates environmental licensing issues and certified environmental impact assessments. One more, the other one. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] And I have noted something about the checks. Can we see what the inspectors are doing? This is very important. First of all, they focus, as a priority, on the Regular Environmental Control Programme for ‘A1’ category activities. This is not what people are getting out of their minds, but they are following two European directives, Directive 98/2008, which is the Framework Directive on Waste and Directive 75/2010 on Industrial Pollution. Also - and with the approval, of course, of our Ministry of the Environment - the regions focus on the Programme of Regular Environmental Audits on 'A2' category activities. You are asking me if I think that the controls are sufficient in any case. No, of course, more must be done, and that is why we are strengthening them. How do we strengthen them and how do we strengthen the College of Inspectors? We also agree with the Pissaridis report. I am pleased that you again invoke the Pissaridis report, and I am pleased that you are evangelizing the reform measures proposed by the Pissaridis project, because we will of course take this into account and know that and we want to draw much of the reform elements of the Pissaridis project. So listen. A presidential decree is being issued in application of Law 4685-2020, the Environmental Law. What does this presidential decree say? It provides for the restructuring of bodies by the entry of natural and legal persons certified by appropriate bodies to carry out even more environmental audits and inspections. We also adopt and introduce, in practice and in the working life of inspectors, digital tools - very important, because so far there has been nothing - and, moreover, under the strong supervision of the Ministry of the Environment and the officials of the Directorate-General for Inspectors and Auditors, the agency will set up a register of auditors and will also be checked by registration and work and will be evaluated at all times. To conclude, I am pleased - and I say this again - that you invoke the Pissaridis project. I would, of course, remind you that, in the days of the SYRIZA government, none of these great things that you may be looking for today - we will do so, of course, because I told you that for us the natural environment, the protection of biodiversity, the treatment of climate change are top priority issues, then of course the Prime Minister's own mandate - you did not. You, with the Presidential Decree 132/2017 of our Ministry's environmental inspection, chose not to move it forward, as you mentioned in your question, to an independent authority. You made it an internal agency and structure of our ministry. I conclude by saying this: because it was mentioned in the UK example, to tell you that your Government - and we continue - decided to follow the model of France and many other European countries as well, where there is no different organisation, an independent authority such as the United Kingdom, which certainly does not only carry out environmental inspections, but is dealing with a thousand things very differently: the treatment of contaminated soil, water quality and natural resources, fisheries, inland waters, conservation of species and ecology. This is going to be done by the Natural Environment and Climate Change Agency, the OFYPEKA, in a second year, to put him in front of the front line. These are my answers and I am happy to come back whenever you want, Mr Mamulaki. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u27	Thank you, too, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the fifth will not be discussed under number 417/12-2-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Mr Nikolaos Friends to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs on the subject: 'Who runs the schools? The Ministry of Education or Racism and intolerance;’. We move on to the discussion of the fourth under number 3090/434/7-1-2021 question and application for documents in the circle of petitions - questions by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "What results of the Government's choice to cancel the forest maps and reform them from the beginning?" Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask you to keep the time, because we have twenty-four questions. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u28	Madam President, good morning and good week. I would like to take advantage of my presence here today to inform you, Madam President, that at the moment police forces have invaded the University of Thessaloniki, they have arrested students, including the secretary of Youth of SYRIZA Thessaloniki, the comrade Thanasis Pantsi. Please, Minister, release the students. The MATs inside the university area have no place. Education, education, free ideas and democracy are in place. With what you're doing, you're kicking out both young children and education and free ideas. I would be very grateful to the Minister who is here and to you, Madam President, to do everything you can. Minister, we are talking today about forest maps and I have taken a little of the opportunity on this issue, Madam President, and I am sorry that we have had an extraordinary anti-democratic event in Thessaloniki today. But for forest maps, I would like to tell you in advance, Minister, that judging from the result, I am sure you are doing everything you can to cancel the forest maps reform as a whole. The way you go, Greece won't have forest maps and you're trying to do it in all fields. You are attacking the rights of citizens, you are harming their equality, the environment and development, because as the situation is now evolving, not all citizens will be allowed to make use of their property, nor will we be allowed to have a rule of law in Greece. Madam President, as the situation has evolved so far, we have a question tabled - Minister, now you are also responsible for the delays - on 7 January, with ten questions and requests for documents. I'm sure you can't answer her today. Submitted to the previous command, but you're a month in the Ministry. Late is your responsibility now. So there is a question, Madam President, how all this will be submitted. So I ask you about this. The Government of New Democracy in its anti-environmental law, the law - crime, as "GREENPEACE", "WWF" and other environmental organisations - Law No.4685 - amended the forestry maps law by cancelling those who had no objections. You have clearly done this, Mr Amyras - to say it - to serve the interests of your political friends, because you wanted to do a great rousphetti. So what's he doing? Previous laws are annulled, posted forest maps are cancelled, forest recruitment is frozen and we have administrative acts of dubious validity to be introduced into maps, secondly, crops from a archive of "GROGY", which does not comply with forestry legislation to be exported from the forest land or from the forest map, and thirdly, they are cancelled and maps that had no objection. So it comes then, Madam President, the government and it has a ministerial decision in July 2020 to amend training standards, to extend and amend the categories. An amendment is coming after proving the final ball, giving another extension and amending the procedures again a new clarification circular after, an extension twice of the reform process. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And finally there is a clearing circular five days before the reform deadline and it is changing again the characteristics of forest maps, so that we can get to an incredible preoccupation and urgency and serious constitutional deficits, Madam President, in a press release on 24 January - which you know, Mr Amyras - which says that the Ministry has not implemented the law - it says the press release now - and enables applications that have not been examined on time to be examined, while forest maps and legal documents that will be submitted after the suspension. So, one citizen is not entitled to do this and another is entitled, because you've decided on it with a press release? To cover this, I must say, Mr Hatzidakis' hammer, who very simply wants the maps to be cancelled and to make ruses on trespassers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u29	Colleague, ask your question, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u30	So, after two extensions, the documents, two more in the reform and without finally doing what you promised in Law 4685, you come and admit by press release that forest maps are not being implemented and that citizens can carry back documents and change the whole image of forest maps. Madam President, I would like to say that some citizens can raise a point of order, others cannot. Some people can do remodeling.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u31	Colleague, you can take things to your dentistry. Please ask the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u32	So, Minister, answer me why you chose to dynamize the maps and what will happen with all this inequality and the mess you have created? Because you're going to cancel the maps, beyond the Council of State. I'll tell my dentist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, Madam President, I must say that there are twenty-one questions in the question of Mr Famello and the rest of the Members, not one or two. I'm willing to answer each other separately. I'll group them together, though. First of all, let me say, Mr Famelle, that I do not belong to that generation of politicians who want to nullify the other, say their political opponent, and that is what I was hoping you to do. So I'm not making your own effort. Indeed, no one can question that in your five-year rule in the country, yes, 55% of the forest maps had been developed, with 44% of them being ratified. However, also, no one can question that you literally inherited a chaos in relation to forest maps. Since 2017, more than one hundred and seventy-five thousand objections had been raised only to this 52% of forest maps. This means that we would need about 20 years, maybe even more, in 2040, in the way you had legislated, if we were to look at all citizens' objections. Also, do not put aside, please and remember that the Council of State came by its decision in 2019, Resolution 685, which effectively annulled your relevant ministerial decisions and demolished the law on forest maps, as you set it up. What did our government do and we are very proud of it? With Law 4685, we have made a direct contribution to legislation so that the administration can comply first of all with the decision of the Council of State, to reduce the objections, not to trouble the public in the committees, and, finally, to speed up the process of examining the objections to the committees concerned. So the reform - I inform you - of forest maps for the whole country has been completed. Primary checks applied to a small sample of the stirred forest maps show that the reform leads to an exception of areas of 2% to 5% at regional level. The verification of the legality and completeness of administrative acts which reform forest maps is naturally carried out by local forest addresses. Even the demands made without complete support from the citizens are being promoted to the opposition committees on a case-by-case basis. We make it easier for citizens. The timetable for posts is well known. By the end of February, 26 February, the last part of the territory is to be posted and the maps will be validated by the end of the year. The forest maps for us are a major, extremely useful and important tool and to protect the forest, but also to protect the legitimate interests of citizens' property. You have so many questions I don't know what to answer first. I will mention just the following: 55% of the forest maps on your day had been posted and 44% validated. So where'd that 11% go? Why is there a difference between the validated maps of SYRIZA and the posted maps? A 2.5% of this area was included in the 175,000 objections, which, as I said to you, if we went to SYRIZA's pace, we would reach 2040. The remaining 8.5% were cases that led to a dead end, Mr Famele, both the administration - the forest services - and the citizens, for example, the arrangements for settlements which were considered unconstitutional. We had to be guided - and we did well as a government - by deciding to reform them, because we had to resolve the deadlocks you caused. One example of this is that I should like to say to you, Madam President, and I should like to return to my dentistry: residential areas for which citizens had attestations from the competent services of the Ministry of Rural Development or the regions had not been excluded from forestry legislation despite the fact that this was provided for in the legislation, due to the lack of the provision of the procedure for incorporating these administrative acts into the forest maps. So we've taken all this from the start. Internally, the administration reformed the maps, using extremely important administrative acts. So, should the administration not take into account, for example, approved or town planning plans? Should the citizen run behind the administration? Oh, no. That's what's cut off with us. We have put them in a row and we are proud that within the year we will have uploaded all the forest maps of the territory and we will be very close to the ratification of almost all of the territory. Thank you and apologies, Madam President. There were so many questions I'm trying to pull them together and answer them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. And we have a lot of questions today, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u36	Madam President, thank you very much. Mr. Amyras, it's not our fault if we ask a lot of questions. It's not SYRIZA or us MPs for the questions. If your Ministry and you had the right to answer in writing, we wouldn't come here with many questions. This is a written question which has not been answered in writing, Mr Amyras, and you will be asked to answer it in writing because it will be asked because I have not yet seen the documents we have requested. Second matter. You complain about the many thousands of objections. But, Mr Amyras, when you have made forty-five years changes to the use of PASOK and New Democracy and you have not solved them, it makes sense to have many objections. The question is: why did you stop the recruitment of forest workers to consider the objections? You froze them! Third matter. It is a lie that the Council of State annulled the law of SYRIZA because the law that had the dominated forest maps has not been invalidated. For extruded and residential densities, the loose end remains. The question is, Madam President, why did they cancel 45% of the certified forest maps that had the forest land inside and had no objection to knowing what is going on behind, beyond that Law 4685 is all in the Council of State. For those who gave you the information about the castings and the settlements did not tell you that under Article 20 of Law 3889/2010 all legal administrative acts are excluded from forest maps. So you did a hole in the water. Now we're going to forest problems, because you shouldn't have that arrogance. Today the mess continues because very simply you excluded settlements from the process. You gave us a paper on publicity that the municipalities didn't send the polluters, so that's the problem. They have announced reform, Madam President, and they have not even been able to deal with the municipalities. Parts that they gave four times an extension, two in the reform and two in the posting of forest maps. You are now coming and from what I can see you are not informing the citizens of the fact that you are not posting the maps on the schedule. You have an average ten days late in each area, Mr. Amyras, and you do not bother to inform the inhabitants of Crete, for example, that the map that was to be posted at some point was posted ten days later. Time schedules are also amended. That's not even what you're capable of. We posted a map before the date of commitment to society. There are many mistakes and you know that you have certain political pressure. Don't say you've successfully done reform. Let me tell you what happens both in Crete and in the Dodecanese. There are areas that should have been excluded such as a provincial network, rural roads, municipal properties, water tanks, municipal biological cleansing facilities, citizens' homes with legitimate building permits, hotel units, olive groves and orange trees that were burnt, but there was a circular to declassify because it was agricultural farming and you didn't do it. Why? Because you have simply confused your legs because you have given timelines that do not come out to settle the ruffles, so the forest maps have terrible mistakes, Madam President. Now we risk falling the whole system of forest maps to make a few friends of Mr. Mitsotakis their toys. Mr. Amyras, that's the reality. You come lying to the European Union. I found a response from the Commissioner for Economic Affairs, Mr Gentiloni, on 2 December 2020, which says that the Greek authorities said that 80% of the remaining forest maps would be submitted by the end of October 2020 and that the authorities committed to posting them all by the end of December 2020. Not one has been posted, Madam President. Also complete the ratification until July 2021. Are you lying to the European Union like that? I have the Commissioner's document, Mr Amyras. To solve the problems that exist today. There is a very clear issue of inequality among the citizens and you will have a constitutionality of the post, beyond what is left by No4685. You cannot in one region, to a citizen, say 'you cannot object' and in another region say 'even in an unreformed map you can bring me back to me.' That's a little bumpy, Mr. Amyras. So, you're telling a hotel owner "retrospectively give me excuses" but the two-seven farmers in the region do not object? How can you manage this? It is a serious issue of inequality that you have created. You've made six citizens' speeds. In addition, we have asked you many times - I have asked three questions - why do you not hire the staff in the forest services to unleash this process? How can you create such serious issues of dishonesty?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u37	Colleague, you'll have to close up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u38	There are certainly limited issues in the outdated and residential densities. I don't underestimate it. I didn't criticize you for that either. But canceling forest maps, not allowing citizens to object, allowing some to carry back documents and have created the problems we have identified in Crete and the Dodecanese, is tragic, Mr Amyras. You'll shoot the forest maps. Greece won't have any.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u40	You're very welcome. You need to respond to how this reform will remain standing, because you are insulting it both in substance and in parity and there will be no forest maps to play in order to deal with ruffles, Mr Amyras. It's unacceptable for 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u41	Mr Colleague, thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Famelle, where should I start? That's a sufficient reason. "The forest maps are not the problem. It's a solution. However, they have many problems for which the current government is obviously not responsible. Examination of the objections will normally be done. The committees will be responsible and there will soon be the decisions on the salaries of lawyers. The framework is in place and will be put into effect in good time." Socrates Famelos in "NAYTTERRIC" on 13 March 2017. You would solve the problem from 2017. We arrived in 2019 the Council of State to cast your law. So there is no doubt that you have the know-how. Especially in relation to the latter. Let's go down to the timeline. The first forest maps, Madam President, were posted on 15 February and so far the timetable has been adhered precisely, as we had anticipated. Throughout this period decentralised administrations, in cooperation with the Directorate-General for Forestry, are taking a step-by-step step. Every week we have one and two teleconferencing conferences at technical level with the technical stages of decentralised administrations and with the coordinators of decentralised administrations and we resolve any issue that arises at all. And I would like to congratulate the cooperation of the decentralised administrations which are doing a huge job. You're asking me if we're going to reinforce them with staff. Of course! We have already announced that they will be recruited through the OAED's public-private programme and money from the NSRP and the Social Cohesion Fund seven hundred people, of whom three hundred fifty will be forestists and two hundred foresters. They will serve the services to strengthen, help the work of forest maps, and of course they will also be in the field. Third matter. You ask me why we do not allow some citizens to make their objections. We are talking about valid maps, maps that are 'locked'. We are also talking about areas in which from 2017 - over your days - until today, until the end of last year, that is - which have been continuous extensions and the possibility of presenting objections - there has never been a single objection. So you want to open the maps and get us into a shipwreck. No, we don't follow that policy. I would also like to say that it is planned to support decentralised forestry services in preparing the files. The opposition committees will group together the issues, citizens' objections. So we will get out of time and there will be substance, as citizens' objections will be better considered. Fourth issue. Refer to the ‘Group’ on ruffles, etc. And I'm really sorry about these views. It should therefore be noted that the archive of the "GREEN" was not used or used under any circumstances as proof of the nature of the land. This is the only digital set of data on the settlement areas of the country. It has necessarily been decided to use it in the reform of forest maps in the absence of alternative data.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u43	Do you know what law you passed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u44	Can't you write about "GREEN" in your question? Have you forgotten what you're asking?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u45	You don't know the law, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u46	Let me go, Mr. Femmel. You don't know what you're asking? Undo what you ask yourself! I mean, mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u47	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u48	So we found that the application of the data of "GREEN" and other administrative instruments pointed out cases where there was a legal change in the use of land by means of administrative solid, strong acts. Is that rushfetti? Are you accepting other administrative acts, that is, no? So we had areas that in the 1945 aerial photography and earlier appeared forest, but in the aftermath aerial photographs some form of anthropogenic activity was found and received the characterization of AA, that is, another form. They, however, retain their secondary character, i.e. a historical forest character, of another type today, and the value of 28 in the field of land type which describes areas which have lost their forest character on the basis of the acts of the administration on the grounds of legality. If that's ruffetti you're talking about, I'm sorry. However, I have a surprise for you to remind you of your own things. Madam President, do you see this volume? It's the fifty-nine circulars you've made, Mr. Famele, to fix the raft-- it's rigged out your law, which, of course, went down to the Council of State. Of course I won't testify because I respect the recycling we have to do. I'm going to testify it in a flash drive to get you, Mr. Famele, and remember the rough work you've done and drive the national plan of forest maps where it was found in the basement. So we are resurrecting it, and we are now going to be the European country that can look the other European countries equally in the eyes, saying that we at last have forest maps. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, too, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u50	Madam President, we will make a request for a question, because the answer does not cover us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u51	What documents did you ask for and didn't come?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u52	Please don't have a dialogue. We move to the ninth under number 418/12-2-2021 topical question by MP Chania of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Paul Pavlakis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Illegality the proposal to appoint Mr. Rock as President of the National Medical Helped Reproduction Authority". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much, Madam President. Let me begin by saying that I took off the mask, having kept a distance of more than two metres, because I can't speak with the mask. Minister, on February 2nd, in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency in the House, with a recommendation from the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Kontozamanis, was appointed as Chairman of the Supervisory Board of the National Medical Authority, Mr.Nicholas Brachnis, Deputy Professor of Gynecology - Mavary at the "ATITICN" Hospital, at the University of Athens. At that meeting I had said a number of things to say that Mr Rock and because of the qualifications he had not had to take this position, and because by law you abolished the previous Commission of Helpive Reproduction and its President, Mrs Kalandaridou, who had done an excellent job, which was also tabled to the committee, so that you could appoint Mr Brachni. We had some information that there was a loose end in relation to his position at the university, because he had to be a deputy professor. In addition to the incomplete qualifications in relation to his predecessor, in addition to the provocative fact of the legislature that you have abolished the previous committee, there have been some things which I have unfortunately found two, three days later, and of course their disclosure has not resulted in an EKT not going out to date for his appointment to the Committee of Helped Reproduction, which I say shortly, and which is as follows: Mr Brachnis - I can give as many details as you like - under the terms of the Council of State and the final decision of the Administrative Court of Athens No 2258/20 he has lost his place as professor at the University of Athens. In fact, this decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal has direct effect since its adoption vis-à-vis all, erga omnes and in accordance with Article 95(5) of the Constitution, the administration has an obligation to comply. Why am I asking you the question? Because you're the superintendent of the university, and you need to tell us two things. Firstly, what action will you take in the context of the supervision of the Ministry in order to implement this decision of the Administrative Court of Athens, which is a final annulment act, so that Mr. Brachnis can be removed from the university, why must we respect judicial decisions? And, secondly, have you informed the Ministry of Health that there is this looseness, that is, the one who had the right to be a deputy professor is not even a teacher, is he not even a member of the university, so as not to go ahead with the publication of the FEK and to designate another government of its choice for the position of the Committee on Helped Reproduction? Details I'll tell you in my denture.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u55	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. The case to which you refer is a 2012 case. At that time, there had been a notice for membership of the board of assistant professors at the Medical School of the University of Athens on the subject of obstetrics, gynaecology, embryonic medicine. Then, on 10 April 2013, Mr. Branchnis had been elected, against which a request for annulment was lodged by his candidate and in 2015 some time came to the decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal accepting the application for annulment and repeating the procedure on 17 June 2015. There's a new procedure. While the first process had been elected, the first candidate was elected, in the second process...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u56	It had evolved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u57	Oh, no. He was elected. It was an election process. When you apply for development, you necessarily get into the election process and another one comes in and runs with you. The second time the second candidate was elected. Subsequently, Article 28, which reads as follows: ‘procedures for the election, development and permanentisation carried out on the basis of the decisions referred to in the preceding subparagraph, shall be deemed valid and shall fully produce their results’. Based on this, the person, who in the meantime had lost his post as a lecturer - when you are not elected after evolution you lose your position as a lecturer - is applying to return to the university, invoking Law 4386/2016. Subsequently, the Act of the University, the NRP, which decides to reappoint it as an assistant, and then another procedure takes place, the procedure of an alternate professor. I would point out that, as in the case of the Deputy Professor procedure, it is not necessary, as in the case of the lecturer procedure, to be a development. It's a process in which everyone has submitted their papers from the outset. It's not a prerequisite to be an assistant professor. On this basis, therefore, this person was elected a deputy professor. You in your question are questioning his election as an assistant. Indeed, a decision is made, 2258/2020, which retroactively annuls the act. It is, however, an abrogation of an act of assistant and not a substitute. There is another procedure for the election of an alternate. I stop here to explain the rest in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u59	Minister, struggling to support things that are not supported! Mr. Rocky lost his place, then second place when he came back. Because in 2015-2016 he stayed outside the university. There was the amendment regulating the issue of the 2012-2013 selective bodies. Take advantage of her and come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u60	As an assistant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u61	In the face of this decision, his co-president, for there was this only paradox: When Mr. Brachni was returned, he was paid by the same code of the General Accounting and Mr. Brachnis and his fellow candidate, who was finally elected, Mr. Eleftherianos. The same code was paid. There was never that anywhere. So Mr Eleftherianos appealed and the decision came out. Having lost Mr. Rockys two decisions in the St.E., a new decision of the Administrative Court of Appeal in 2020 was taken, which practically annulled his appointment. The act that you say became a substitute - which you say the university had wrongly informed the political leadership - is a development in a substitute. It's not a new election. A new choice is if someone else qualified and took the place. If I'm an assistant, and my place is being proclaimed for a deputy, not another university, I'm evolving. It's no other choice. What courtesy, say, is this thing that you're trying to support? Here right now, there's a decision of the Administrative Court and two decisions of the S.H.E.L.D. Can you explain to me why Mr. Rocket did not testify against this decision to apply for annulment? And because I saw what legal counsel suggests at the university, even a request for parole in the S.H.I.E.L.D. to testify, even an appeal to the S.H.E. It is not the case that Mr Rocket's appeals have no suspensory effect in applying the decision, that is to say, that it should be removed from the university. If the S.H.E.E. won't vindicate him when he's made two decisions against him, he'll have to be removed. So, here the question now is beans are counted. Mr. Rock is not qualified to take this place. Therefore, firstly, the chairman of the Committee on Helpive Reproduction should not be appointed, and secondly, he should be removed from the university. That's it. Because I have looked at it very thoroughly, very thoroughly, - to say a last word, Madam President - it is a terrible amount of pressure that you must accept from the organized interests of the area of in vitro, so that Mr Crowd President of the Committee on Reproduction and to send Mrs Kalandaridou away, who has tried to put a order in this area from the banks of genetic material to some centres working in the world to which she has committed penalties and closed down. That's the junk right now. This man must not enter President and the decision of the Administrative Court must be implemented to leave the university. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u63	Mr Colleague, I am pleased that you raise the paradox two people to have the rank of the assistant and to be rewarded by the same code. I have to admit that it made me an impression, and I looked for it, too. I found that all this is beginning, of course, by Mr.4386/2016, but also by a document from Mr. Gavroglou, the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs at the time, to the University of Athens. In this document it says: "We call upon you as you do within your competence under this law, the revocation of such an act of self-determination ending the term of office of Mr.Branch of a member of the LAG of the grade of medicine and the issue of retrospective appointment of an assistant professor with a cognitive subject of obstetrics - gynecology - fetal medicine". It is therefore a document by Mr Gavroglou, which has to implement both the law and what the university is required to implement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u64	The decision is next. The Administrative Court is 2020!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u65	The Administrative Court is in 2020.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u66	Good or bad, get done. We're talking about 2020 now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u67	Not good, bad. It's bad, but let's put that down. Let's see what's going on today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u68	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u69	Mr. Comrade, let the Minister answer. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u70	The decision of the Administrative Court of Athens concerns exclusively in the process of being elected as an assistant professor, not in the process of being elected as an alternate. Its choice in the position to which you referred shall be based on the legal condition of holding a member of a LGD because of his status as a substitute. It is not a condition for an assistant to be elected as an alternate professor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u71	Do you know a lot of people who became substitutes right away?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u72	I know a lot of people who became deputy and primary professors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u73	Minister, answer the question only. Please don't open a conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u74	Last point. It is for the University of Athens solely to take legal action, following the annulment of the Rector Act of 2020, solely because of the self-employed. We can't have the ministry interfering with this. So it is a matter of the University of Athens what it will do on this particular decision.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the eleventh question under number 434/15-2-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Yiannis Delis, on the subject: "The opening of the Universities", which will also be answered by the Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, Evangelos Syrigos. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you very much, Madam President. Minister, today's unacceptable invasion of MATs at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki a little while ago by the prosecutor's intervention and at the request of the dean of the university on the occasion of the mobilisation of student clubs in the field of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, calling for the opening of their schools, one thing in our opinion: It is possible for the students to keep them closed, but for MATs you have them well. You may be in a hurry to apply the law of repression that you voted a few days ago, but you are not in a hurry to open up the universities that have been staying for over a year. You may light up the green light from spring to the big business tourism, but in the spring of the universities you refer it to teletext. Because - as you well know, Minister - since next March on the occasion of the pandemic the only ones that have been closed and never been opened again are the universities in our country. For a year now, schools have been closed. They do not practice living except tele-education. What does that mean? We know it or we can easily all understand it. A series of workshops, clinical exercises for students in medicine and nursing, have not been carried out in practice of vital importance for understanding, assimilation of scientific knowledge in many scientific subjects. All this means closed universities. Because even this widely advertised, you know, tele-education except that it excludes a number of students who have neither fixed nor easy access - there are, and they are, unfortunately enough - in electronic media, it is only a substitute for education and relatively low value, since this educational process is sterilized, dehydrated by its vitality with a natural presence of exchanges of views and the natural life of knowledge. Despite these problems, however, which are now known to everyone, tele-instrumenting with the responsibility of your government is now tending to become a well-established situation and as it seems to be preparing the ground to maintain even after the opening of the schools, whenever this is done. So we ask you, Minister: what measures does your government intend to take to finally open up universities, of course with all the necessary sanitary measures, the necessary teaching rooms, workshops, the necessary teaching and other staff? What are you going to do to replace lost practical exercises and clinics, of course, with the responsibility of the institutions? And what are you going to do to solve matters of direct student care, accommodation by renting large spaces, by generalizing the housing allowance and all the things that students need to complete their studies? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u78	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague, for your question. I begin with the comment you made that the goal of the Government is to stop living education. Apparently, as a joke, I can hear it. It does not mean a university without lifelong training. But we must realise that at this time we are going through an extremely difficult situation. We are in a phase where pandemic has hit the whole world very badly, not just our country. We are in a phase in which large sections of the population are being vaccinated and a light has begun at the end of this process. The fact is, one year now, universities are closed with little breaks. It is also a fact that the spring semester - which begins today - was decided to do with televised training. We will see what happens in the examination period, when it comes, depending on what the epidemiological data are. Unfortunately, epidemiological data does not allow us to open the universities by living. I read in your question. You mention, among other things, 'to recruit the necessary teaching staff and other staff to support new needs for a small number of students'. Mr President, you have probably heard Mr Polakis' question earlier. I don't know if you noticed the dates 2012, 2013, 2014, 2015 for a place in medical school. These are not procedures that take place from one day to the next and are subject to a judicial judgement. It is therefore incomprehensible that the necessary staff should be recruited within two to three to six months. As regards the measures in relation to cleaning services, we have to clarify that at the moment all HEIs have received the necessary funding to provide sanitary material to students. There are workshops in the building facilities which operate and especially in the homes. And there are specific plans to deal with emergencies. In addition, I should like to comment on the subject of exercises. It is true that exercises are clinical exercises, laboratory exercises, practical exercises. Of all these exercises so far only clinical exercises are carried out by students in the sixth year of medical schools. Our intention is whenever the health conditions allow it to be carried out and practices and laboratory exercises in other cases, as well as to see what can be done with special cases, such as, for example, students of TECA. Well, you can't objectively do tele-education tests on the track. How do you do teleteaching? Or with students, for example, of geological schools, who have to go to the mine to do two weeks of training on the spot. We're all looking at this, but it depends on epidemiological data.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Madam President. First of all, let us say that the government and each government are judged by the result rather than by its intentions. For a third year, therefore, universities will be closed. This is the result of government policy, government choice. We have so far heard too many arguments about not recruiting teachers at universities. I must say that what you said today is for the first time I hear that there are a number of bureaucratic reasons for this. The most common argument was that the necessary money was not available. Of course, you cannot easily say that now when you give so many millions to send the police into the universities. In any case, Minister, while students are energising their clubs and claiming the opening up of their schools and this is what mobilisation in Thessaloniki was today, and even they take symbolic initiatives themselves, showing that this opening of the schools can also be done safely, what is your government doing? Instead of opening the schools, you're opening police stations in them. You give more than 30 million to hire a special guard body and intensify the repression inside and outside the universities. What's that for? But, in order to protect the only part of the university that throughout this entire time of the pandemic, Minister, and you know it very much, it has not even stopped working properly. What's this department? They are the business activities of universities, research institutes, quality certification laboratories, foreign-language departments with tuition fees and, indeed, extremely expensive. Now the medical schools of Athens and Thessaloniki are preparing to operate foreign languages with an annual tuition fee of 14,000 euros, please and using the infrastructure and the capacity that should normally be provided for the needs of the educational project. In a demonstration of maximum government audacity at the time you keep the universities closed, you do not hesitate to legislate on maximum time limits in study. When? When you keep the universities closed. Of course, we are not talking about measures relating to student centres, where the situation is really tragic. And, as we have said, neither tele-education nor school-leaving courses, which are increasingly being removed from school curricula, can hide nakedness, the lack of teaching staff. Why only in the sixth year, Minister, medical students? In the fifth year, don't they do clinical exercises? Is it possible that tomorrow's doctors are not trained with clinical exercises in hospitals, and that is done by televising? What's medicine? What are the studies? Telemarketing? In any case, what we want to say, by closing down, is that universities of course could and can - and in these circumstances! - to function safely. Indeed - you are aware of the fact - a number of republican authorities have also tabled very practical proposals for relaunching schools by living - but we are talking about living things - but proposals that your Government - we do not know why, perhaps you have an answer for this - refuse to implement them. What does it mean to open schools safely? It's very simple, Minister. It means smaller parts. There are plenty of public spaces. In the HICP, there are a number of such things that can be exploited as areas of teaching with small interventions. It also means more lab shifts, so all students can spend without conspiring. It means recruitment of teachers and auxiliary staff. It can also be done with fast track procedures to stop crying for that Brain Drain, for our scientists who don't have a job and leave. But they can have a job at the universities. And, of course, there must be free tests at universities. These measures we invite you to take. These are perfectly possible and you must explain to the Greek people and to the students why you do not take them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr Colleague, I confess I hear a magical picture. In other words, the rest of the world is in panic, the rest of the world is banning, lockdown, shut down universities, close the market, and suddenly we have found the magic solution so that we can operate all the university departments, which, in order to function, will require a periphery movement, from a county to a county. It is what the panel of experts fears, above all, that it can cause the spread of the disease to resurrect. From there, I'm going to make a little comment on the foreign language departments. Foreignlanguage departments are not addressed to Greek or European students. They are addressed to non-Greek and European students. I can't understand why it's bad for our universities to have incomes from such actions to foreign students. With regard to the university staff you have commented on, I will tell you this: there are two problems. The first is that we want a high level. Isn't that right? Obviously! You say: "Start people in to teach." If we put in people, the way you say it, it'll drop the level. You're saying we haven't given up. In the last one and a half years, the following positions have been taken: in 2019, five hundred, two hundred and two hundred, and in 2020, on September 30, another three hundred fifty positions - a total of one thousand fifty positions - plus eighty temporary educational staff and two hundred and eighty-four posts based on Presidential Decree 407/1980. Do you know that of the three hundred and fifty which were given on 30 September, is it doubtful whether the procedure has proceeded with any of these? I would like to say this to you, in order to understand how unrealistic it is to say 'I can run a quick process'. The only thing that is allowed at the moment is the movement of students who have expired the leases, so that they can go to their homes to rent them out. As to what you say about the medical school, I must admit that it is a reasonable question. I wondered why it was just for the sixth year. The answer was that so far programming did not predict that teleworking would take place in the next six months, so it was only for the seniors of medical school. All of this will be examined in the next period by the panel of experts and on the basis of its recommendations, and we will see how we can proceed to the decisions so that the operation can be restored. One last personal thing, Mr. Comrade. Because I was teaching in the spring of 2020, believe me, it is extremely difficult to do. It's like talking to a wall on a screen. This thing can't go on. We're doing this as a matter of urgency. The teachers don't want it either. You lose your livelihood, you lose everything. It's obvious that it's a matter of urgency. Let us realise that the present situation is something similar to conditions of world war. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, too, Minister. And we're going to the last question to the Minister of Education. It is the seventh question under number 436/15-2-2021 of the F' Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "To re-entry workers into the cleanliness of the University of Thessaly and cover the necessary cleaning and storage staff with permanent staff". The Deputy Minister of Education and Religious Affairs Mr. Evangelos Syrigos will answer. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Madam President. At the end of December 2019, thirty-three cleaners under a fixed-term private-law contract were concluded at the University of Thessaly, with the result that the workers were unemployed. Since then there have been a series of interventions, racing movement of workers, with the support of Magnesia, Volos in this regard. Nevertheless, the Senate of the University of Thessaly commissioned contractors both cleanliness and the maintenance of the university in all its departments, I mean at the level of the Region of Thessaly and not just the building infrastructure of Volos. And he proceeded with this move, because the ministry did not approve of their re-entry. And here we must note that even the presence of the contractors, in terms of so-called costs, costs the university twice as much as workers in these two sectors of cleanliness and storage. So the questions, Madam President, to the Minister are: What steps will the Minister, the Government, take to cover the necessary staff posts in both cleanliness and storage on the basis of the needs of the University of Thessaly, with permanent staff? At the same time, what measures will the Ministry take to re-enter and simulate the staff, which have ended their contracts and have been made redundant, both in cleanliness and in security? It should be noted that for many years they offered their services to the University of Thessaly and were fired after the end of the fixed-term contracts, namely, as I said, the thirty three cleaners at the University of Thessaly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u86	Thank you very much, Mr Colleague. Especially for the University of Thessaly, it is true that on February 7, 2020, the University of Thessaly sent a document asking for approval by an act of Ministerial Council for the filling of cleanliness staff and sixty-four posts for the maintenance of the university by employees with a fixed-term employment relationship. This request arrived at the services of the Ministry, was sent to the political leadership but on May 20th, that is, three months later, the University of Thessaly sent a new document informing the Ministry of Education that the institution's Senate decided to withdraw the university's specific document on the recruitment of these employees. Thus, according to a document we requested from the university the day before yesterday to find out what is now happening, the university has proceeded with a competitive process of displaying warehousing and cleaning, which is in the process of being awarded.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u88	Minister, this is the case. After all, I have said so in my protagonist that the University Senate, after a period of time, had been made redundant - given that the contracts of employment had expired - has been awarded to contractors in both areas of cleanliness and storage, obviously taking advantage of the legislative framework that exists. The question here is fruit, if you wish, precisely in this direction and the obligation that we feel to promote the problems of workers, the problems of our people in general and through the parliamentary procedure. We are talking about workers who had 15 or twenty years, with renewed contracts, covering fixed and fixed needs. Of course, after they've set them up - because I know the situation - all these years like lemon buttocks, of course, making them promises, what are they doing? They threw them on the road. That's what happened. And we're talking about people who are a certain age, who can hardly find work, having testified their souls all these years at Thessaly University. And now, of course, it is a matter of central political direction, regardless of what the Senate decides, and so on. - any university congress - which runs on specific policies - legislation, laws. What is proving is that either by contractors or by contracts - individual or any other type of contract - workers are constantly hostages and faced with the prospect of unemployment, corresponding to impoverishment, whether in times of economic crisis or in times of growth. This, as I have said, also proves through this issue which we are discussing on the occasion of the question and also with regard to the amounts I mentioned earlier. What's the target? Look. They come to the point in the conduct of policy - and it is here that workers should draw conclusions - to enable them even to contractors who enter such services and take the work of providing services of this type, to pay twice as much, possibly even more, in terms of pay, decent - to say so - a reward for workers who either work with these kinds of relationships or with permanent and stable work. I think you have this information, you know, since you have already referred to the University Senate and the decisions they have taken. We say that workers should be employed and of course the Ministry - that is the role of a government, regardless of what a senate can decide - to intervene and say: 'These workers should be employed on a permanent and stable basis in order to provide the services concerned'. You know - you are a university - the needs of university institutions and in these areas, I mean cleanliness, safekeeping and all that. And in this direction, what we are saying is that the workers should step up their struggle. We're talking to them. They must step up their struggle, organise their struggle, behave with these policies, if you like, their claims for the right to permanent and stable work, with full employment and insurance rights. And in this direction, we will be next to them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Colleague, thank you very much. I am going to go further on the issue of cleaners in general. I must say that, following the intervention of your own group, I found the problem that may arise in Patras with the University of Patras and the cleaners, which we will resolve in the next few weeks by means of legislation. In any case, on 31 March this particular contract expires. I looked a little further into the issue of the cleaners regime. You know, there's no white - black. For example, the contractor’s theme has an advantage for the cleaners themselves, workers themselves, that they can normally take their licenses, they can be missed if necessary, while, on the contrary, personal contracts are disadvantaged that they are tied to this position. They can't even be gone for a while. It is an issue that we will see in total, not now, after June, because it is objectively unknown that two ministers should deal with the issue of the cleaners of a university, which has the self-employed, if anything. So we will try to see this issue as a whole in the next few years, after this process has been completed with the awards of contracts and with all that, to see how it can be solved, so that it does not constantly come back to time in a permanent way.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u92	I was brief, Madam President, you cannot say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u93	Sooner or later, thank you. We are now moving on to the fifteenth, with number 444/15-2-2021, a topical question from the F Vice President of the Parliament and MP Larisa from the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The problems at the Primary Health Care of the Prefecture of Larissa". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u94	Thank you again, Madam President. Minister, the time-conscious dismantling and abandonment of all the governments of primary health care and the Larisa Prefecture results in huge shortages in personnel, respectively in medical equipment, but also in the exacerbation, of course, of other problems requiring immediate and urgent solutions, and of course, this period - if you want - for a year with the outbreak of the pandemic and, at the same time, in the needs of primary health care units, health centres, in this case also in the vaccination of the population. For example, I mention a few - they are also mentioned in the question - of the problems that exist in all health centres. Five health centers have the Larissa Prefecture. For example, in all health centres - apart from Elassona - laboratories, blood, biochemical, microbiological, do not work. They were closed, of course, by a decision of the previous government, but they remain closed with the current one, while any processing of any tests is done through the dispatch of biological materials through courier companies to other health structures. Similarly, while the Elassona and Tyrnavo Health Centres have newly recruited dentists, dentists do not work, there is no proper infrastructure or any means - let's say it - to be able to function. There are no medical, radiodiagnostics and technologists for the operation of the respective radiological laboratories both in the Elassona and Gonna Health Centers, while at the Farsalon Health Center the radiation machine is out of service, even though it has a technician, but it does not have a doctor with a radiologist. There are similar problems of a real estate nature in the Elassona Health Centres, Farsalon and Tyrnavos, which need immediate treatment, as well as in regional hospitals in the county. Accordingly, there are issues with cleanliness in health centres and regional medical services and, of course, significant deficiencies in coverage from the EKP - not that there is, but needs improvements in terms of how it should be - but also health centres. So, as far as empty organic positions are concerned, for example, while they are eighty in all five health centres, nothing has been started. So the questions we ask the Minister are as follows: What measures will he take to ensure that the health centres' organic positions in Larissa are immediately filled up and that health centres are strengthened, and that the Health Centre in Larissa is also supported, by the recruitment of permanent full-time and full-time personnel? Similarly, in terms of permanentisation, we say without conditions and conditions to permanentise all subsidiary and contractors and nomination by urgent procedures and only control of the formal qualifications of all candidate doctors for the permanent posts that have been declared and nomination of all candidate general doctors for the posts opened in 2019. Accordingly, there must be the establishment of vaccination centres within the framework of primary health care in suitable areas, by means of urgent recruitment of permanent staff, with a view, of course, to the immediate release of hospitals from the vaccination of the general population called upon not only to meet the needs of the general emergency, namely, to care for the health of the people in the region, but also to the issues arising from COVID -19. Accordingly, there must be the use of the private sector by ordering it and the compulsory integration of private doctors into the plan to deal with the pandemic and, of course, the vaccination programme. Finally, there must be state funding, which in any case, as we all know from the budget we discussed at the end of 2020, will be further reduced in 2021.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lambroulis, the National Health System is in its thirteenth year of recommendation. And, as I usually say, he has now completed his pension years. It is therefore necessary to implement bold but at the same time well-designed policies which will lead to the reconstruction and modernisation of the National Health System. We all know that primary health care is the pillar of a National Health System. We also know that primary health care is the first point of contact for every citizen in the search for health services, especially in the region. The fact is that in primary health care there are shortfalls and gaps. And I'm saying over time, because all these years we've managed to have a hospital - central health system, throwing more weight into hospitals and neglecting the part of primary and post-medical health care. The previous government in an effort to make a reform in the health sector has not given the necessary emphasis to the reconstruction of existing health centres, regional and local health offices and, more generally, to a comprehensive plan for primary health care structures and services, their evaluation, their redesign and modernisation. Surely this, along with the timeless uncertainty, has led us to the current situation that is certainly characterised as problematic. We, for our part, seek to compose, reconstruct and upgrade primary health care. It is no coincidence that primary health care along with health centres is our operational arm in the implementation of citizens' vaccination. To achieve this, we need support for staff, upgrading of building infrastructure, modern equipment and definitely redesigning the services provided. In Larissa, to come to your question, a total of six health centers are being deployed, with thirty regional medical facilities. These health centers serve as a total of sixty doctors and a hundred and twenty - four nursing staff. They also serve subsidiary doctors and additional ancillary staff have been planned and approved for the operation of the vaccination lines. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] There is therefore no question, first of all, of carrying out vaccinations and of charging health centres that develop vaccination lines. After all, we have arranged for the gradual launch of vaccination lines in health centres, in accordance with the scheduled traditions of vaccines and the priority set by the National Committee for Vaccines for the groups to be vaccinated. With regard to the functioning of health centres and the problems they face, I would like to point out the following: You spoke of microbiological laboratories. At the moment, where there is a problem with microbiological laboratories, samples taken from health centres are sent to laboratories contracted by the 5th Health Region which, of course, give the results very short time. For dentists of the Elassona and Tyrnavo Health Centers, the recruitment of two permanent dentists and the completion of the maintenance work of the dentistry will be able to restart normally. The damage to the Farshall Health Center's radiological machine has already been restored for ten days and operates under the supervision of a technician. The lack of personnel for radiodiagnostic doctors in Elassona and Gonna health centers correctly identify it. We have made efforts with notices of subsidiary and permanent staff, but unfortunately there is no interest. We believe that by reviewing the incentives for medical staff that we will be announcing very soon, we will also provide a solution to this issue. For now, the two hospitals in Larissa meet the needs of the citizens. For the building problems mainly of the Elassona, Farsalon and Tyrnavos Health Centres, the Technical Services Directorate of the Ministry of Health has visited these structures and have recorded the problems in order to proceed directly to building interventions. For cleanliness in all health structures in the Larissa Prefecture, people are employed by an individual contract of employment. In addition, a contract between the 5th RC and the contracting company will be signed for the cleanliness of health centres and regional medical offices. Therefore, any problems that may have arisen in the area of cleanliness will be alleviated, since in the work of already workers in cleanliness with fixed-time contracts other workers will be assisted. Finally, the coverage of the health centres by the EAW is done thanks to the recruitment of the staff who have been implemented. More specifically, we are talking about eight people in 2020 as an ancillary staff in the ICM category of ambulance crews. In my dentistry, Madam President, I shall answer Mr Lambroulis's other questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u98	Look, Minister, let's talk about primary health care, especially at this time of pandemic. As we have seen from the outset, the public health system - and you and all of us know it very well - with its huge problems, whether at hospital level or at primary health care level, has been called upon to face an unprecedented, indeed, healthier, pandemic with personnel, infrastructure, logistical infrastructure and goes by saying that it was very behind the needs of the normal period of pandemic. And problems are known, which is why they are also time-consuming. You track it down, you and we. But there are reasons behind this and there are specific responsibilities for policies that have been implemented over all these years in the context of public health, primary and secondary, within the framework of the strategic direction of the European Union, to trade in the public health sector. And, obviously, this is what you said at the outset in your prototype, that it is perhaps time - if I remember correctly - to draw up the existing system. Look, we have no delusion that primary health care - like hospitals, but above all primary health care - in a series of interventions by both the current government and the previous governments - at the level of legislation I mean - is increasingly transforming primary care from public health, so to speak, a good thing that should be in its operation, in full tradition in private interests with the multi-currency that is currently in existence and reflected in a number of legislation on primary health care. The result of all this policy over the years, both in health and primary health care is our people, our workers, farmers, the self-employed, putting their hands in the pockets increasingly deeper and deeper for services that, in our view, the state should provide for free and at the level of primary health care. And when we say primary health care, we mean not only providing services, that is to say, the immediate problem of dealing with it, but especially in the field of prevention. There is a need for staff, specialities and similar interventions in the population of the areas covered, respectively, by environmental issues, working conditions, the chronic suffering, the disabled in these areas and saying! But this is not just your policy. That's clear. We know that. The point is to understand it as quickly as possible for the people and to make your own policy, but also the policy of the previous governments, which has health as a commodity, the medicine as a commodity. Otherwise it will lose out of the rights it has itself won with struggles and public health issues, and it will be called upon to pay even more exorbitant sums to have services that it is entitled to, because it has paid them and paid them back again. And a few words, Madam President, still. I'm asking for your tolerance. Mr. Contozamani, you said six health centers. The sixth Health Center - obviously you have in mind - is the Health Center in Larissa, a city with over seventy thousand people. What were you guys doing as a government? You have continued this timeless abandonment and changed the name, by PEDY - former PEDY now - became a state-of-the-art Larisa Civil Health Center. There is no organogram, but, for example, it has not been mentioned - the elementary function that such a health centre should have in the urban fabric, operating 24/7 on a newspaper basis. And not to mention the staff as well as the numerical situation, but also in terms of quality, in the sense of specialities, etc., which the people of Larissa need. Of course, in the explosive situation facing the city health centre, the issues of mass vaccination are added, as I said about other health centres. Of course, the CEPOL committees operating in the health centre, in the former PEDY, were "discovered" and in this direction the Larisa Labour Centre, proving its solidarity with the suffering fellow citizens, provided rooms for the KEPA committees to be housed in order to function because the health centre is turned into a vaccination centre, so that it cannot cope with, in spite of all its enormous shortcomings, even with the basic health problems arising and is called upon to cover health care in this area. So here we are talking about a specific policy which is about the conscious depreciation of health structures, both at hospital level and at primary health care, a policy of depriving the state of responsibility for the functioning of all these structures - and not only in health - and of course open a splendid field of glory to private venture capital. The proof of this is why the figures, which are constantly showing the upward trend in private health, are lowering the operation of public health units and, of course, our people to put their hands even more in their pockets in order to have the basics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Lambroulis, in your question you are asking for the creation of vaccination centres in the context of primary health care. We are telling you that the majority of our plan to vaccinate the population is about the functioning of vaccination centres in primary health care structures and you are telling us to take the vaccination lines from these structures. You said about the CCPs. CEPOL is under the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. They're hospitable at the health center. And of course we want to serve all our fellow citizens and a solution had to be found in order to secure a safe place, such as the health centre, to be able to proceed with vaccination. You referred to the organograms in health centres, the former IKA doctorates, in the PEDY, which are now called health centres. I should like to inform you that this looseline, which comes from the old ones, is heading to the end, since we have the Central Board of Health Regions to approve the new establishment plans, following recommendations from the Health Care Secretariat, health centres, so that all structures of primary health care can have specific organograms in order to move forward with modernization and more clearly reflect the situation in primary health care. You referred to a large chapter that is part of primary health care and is prevention. We must certainly separate the part of prevention from primary, but I must remind you that almost a year ago at the National Representation we voted for a law on public health and with concrete measures to prevent it, so that we can really change the Charter of Prevention and Public Health in the country, which is a decisive factor, in order to properly operate primary and secondary health care. In fact, in the proposals to the Recovery Fund, we have planned to submit proposals of EUR 400 million for primary health care and of course, specific programmes relating to public health and prevention. You referred to your question, too, to the remit of the private sector. We did it and I repeat that we have had it from the outset in our pandemic management planning. We didn't have to do it at first. We had to do it in the second wave and we did it and we would do everything possible to tackle the pandemic with even greater success. In this battle, the state and the private sector must unite forces so that we can defeat this pandemic. With regard to the brave increase, mentioned, of state funding, more than 700 million euros were allocated in 2020 for the management of the pandemic alone, and 2021 is a year when in the budget of the State the funds allocated to health will be clearly increased in relation to 2020 and in addition to what they have...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u101	Primary health care has reduced...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u102	No, we have also answered earlier questions within the framework of parliamentary control. No, Mr. Bright. Look at the budget of the state. Of course, anything that is needed to deal with the pandemic will be made available, as has been the case in the previous period. With regard to the permanentisation of subsidiary and contractors, we have already proceeded with the extension of all contracts by the end of October 2021 and by the end of December 2021. It remains the government's commitment to remain in the system for the nursing staff who fought against the structures of the National Health System. Of course, we are also going to cover empty organic positions in the health system. We had a thousand four hundred twenty-seven medical staff posts with three notices in 2020, nine hundred extra medical staff posts with a notice a few days ago, a 6K notice for over two hundred other staff and we continue with a specific programme to fill the gaps that the health system needs. Let me repeat once again what we have said in the past: permanent solutions need to be found in the health system and that is where our decisions are going. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, let me remind you that your time is two minutes and three minutes respectively. Because we have seventeen other questions, please be consistent in your time as long as you can. We move on to the third debate under No 407/8-2-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Health, on "The serious problems of the General Hospital of Chania Crete". The Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis, will also respond. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Madam President. Minister, at a time when recruitment of doctors and health workers to hospitals is an urgent need, as well as strengthening the public health system of all grades - and it should be at the top of the agenda - the General Hospital of Chania - as well as many others in the country, but in particular Chania serving the needs of seventy thousand inhabitants in the wider region of the prefecture - is facing very serious problems. In particular, a crucial issue is the huge gaps that remain with doctors and health staff, while part of them is only covered with subsidiary staff, i.e. with fixed-term recruitment, but also with movements of personnel from one unit to another. Characteristics based on the hospital's internal body only for medical staff remain sixty-two vacant posts, fifty-seven vacancies at the level of qualified staff and a lot of gaps in nursing staff. In this situation, of course, cleanliness problems are added, but only one cleanser is noted on the night shift at the hospital, as well as the care of psychiatric patients. In addition, oxygen adequacy is marginal. Yes, although the hospital's oxygen production plant works normally, but its production is not sufficient for the needs, so that the hospital is at risk of not being able to supply oxygen not only to the patients COVID -19, but also to the other pathological incidents. Meanwhile, the private suppliers withdrew the oxygen tank that was in the hospital, confirming in the most tranquil way the consequences when business interests invade health, since their sole criterion is profit. There is a question, of course, with the completion of the expansion of the psychiatric ward in the hospital, the legacy "Malinakis" as it is said, in order to refunction the clinical infectious diseases and AIDS and the overall problems regarding the building infrastructure and the technical equipment of the Hospital of Chania as the result of its incomplete or incomplete maintenance. The above problems, Minister, are over time, are not new and are exacerbated more day by day, especially in today's pandemic conditions and leave both workers and nurses, doctors, all scientific and auxiliary staff, but also their own patients, above all. So we ask you, Minister, what measures does the government intend to take so that, firstly, the hospital can be immediately served with the necessary permanent staff, with absolutely free medical care and examinations, without wall and cuts, with the abolition of contributions to the health sector and the abolition of any business activity? In addition, to permanentize workers by fixed-term contracts. Revoking the movements of personnel between the public health structures of the island and the immediate resolution of the acute building problems, as well as the resolution of the problems in the production of oxygen and the requisition of the private tank. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u105	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, Madam President. Mr. Synthykakis, it is very recent my visit to the General Hospital of Chania, so I can also have a personal view of the functioning of the hospital, its strong and weak points, its shortcomings and gaps that in no way match what you describe in your question. You are talking about huge gaps in medical staff, while over a period of 12 months between February 2020 and February 2021 in four consecutive calls for positions of doctors of various specialties were declared as a total of forty-six permanent medical staff. As far as subsidiary staff are concerned, which is equally important for the proper functioning of the hospital, thirty-eight subsidiary doctors from eight who found themselves serving by the previous SYRIZA government, one hundred and fifty-seven other auxiliary staff, one of whom is a nursing, thirty paramedical and twenty-six administrative - technician. I would say that this effort to strengthen the hospital is very important and under no circumstances should it be called into question. What we need is to continue this policy of strengthening the structures of the National Health System to cover the huge gaps that exist from the past. I repeat something I said in the previous question. Our will is that these recruitments are permanent. And when this isn't possible, we're recruiting ancillary personnel. The Hospital of Chania has neither compromised nor will it be in danger of oxygen failures. Indeed, there were problems with the private supplier, but they were directly dealt with. I must stress that in any case suppliers of all kinds who do not understand the priorities and put the safety of patients to a second degree cease to be suppliers of the National Health System. The actions that we have taken have ensured the possibility of increased oxygen supply needs are self-evident in a very critical period of time, such as that of the coronary pandemic. In conclusion, I should like to say that you are right about the problems in the building infrastructure you have referred to. For these technical issues, I was fully informed during my visit to the Hospital of Chania. The procedures relating in particular to the energy upgrading of the hospital, the maintenance work and in general all the loose ends relating to the technical works and of course the big issue of the psychiatric clinic you have been talking about should be speeded up. I would like to remind you that under the Recovery Fund we have submitted proposals of EUR 660 million, which will be allocated to modernise the old structures of the National Health System. We're here and we're watching closely. Your points on this issue are useful. I would like to assure you that we are acting in the direction of their resolution. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u108	Minister, you said that very recently you visited Chania Hospital and you have first-hand knowledge of the situation. So do we. You're not going alone. We're going, too, and not on a chance. Can you tell us what the problems raised by the hospital workers of Chania are, to see if what you're talking about are in line with the issues raised by the workers? I have a question. Secondly, you said the oxygen supply problems were tackled. With what actions? What are the actions? How was the problem solved? You must give us a concrete answer. During your visit, you express your satisfaction at the overall picture of the hospitals in Crete, not only of Chania. You have even expressed it here. You said that the aim of the political leadership was, after the pandemic, to hold a pandemic so that the successive changes in the national health system could proceed. You announced the recruitment of additional medical staff, etc. Lies! We tell you that you lie and we challenge you, Minister. Do you know why you're lying? It's the second lie you're saying. Or maybe you're lying all the time, because the previous timely question about Larissa Hospital said the same. I will therefore remind you of something at least as a member of the Heraklion Parliament and in relation to issues that I have put to you for the hospitals in Crete. By January 2019, before the pandemic, do you know what you said? That 2020 will be the year of hospitals. "Our aim is to have permanent staffing positions in hospitals because the system of subsidiary doctors is a temporary solution." You said that here today. And then you lied. Why did you lie? It has been two years since your statement. And what you're saying today, it's probably going to be another two years. And while you had all the time to shield the public health system, hospitals, health care centres, you didn't. So if you now have exceptional pandemic conditions with more than six thousand dead you have not hired the staff required, it is shameful to tell us here "You know, we made these announcements". Yeah, but they don't meet the real needs in pandemic conditions. So, let us imagine, in normal conditions, what an abandonment will be, deliberately, consciously in order for the private sector to find good ground! Your government, Minister, continues exactly the same unhealthy management and operation of hospitals, as SYRIZA did. SYRIZA messed up. You need to take a position here and now on the shortcomings in public health services, in towns and villages, which are huge. For example, Candanos Health Center: Can you tell me why he doesn't make vaccines and moves all this world to Tavronitis, so many miles away? Tell us why? So how did you recreate the health system? With the closure of the Venizelos Hospital! To take you to a hospital next door in Heraklion Prefecture, due to an intra-Holy dispersal, with a great reduction in regular surgery and surgery. Accordingly, the situation is heading towards the incompatibility, in the health centers of Heraklion, the other counties, as well as the county of Chania. Instead of making massive recruitment of permanent staff, the government is trying to fill these gaps with the recycling of staff and with flexible forms of employment. On the basis of the new establishment plan, Minister, they have been abolished - in relation to the old - twenty-eight organic positions. And I ask you: is the need today to abolish organic posts or additional organic posts in hospitals? I repeat that, on the basis of the new establishment plan - not the old one, which seems to be the best way of expressing the needs - only sixty-two vacancies remain, fifty-seven qualified and nurses as I have told you in protagonism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Comrade, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u110	I shall conclude, Madam President. That is, about 30% of the planned places are empty at the Hospital of Chania. And you tell us you're doing notices. Of the two hundred and nineteen organics, sixty-two are empty and of the rest, i.e. the hundred and fifty-two remaining, 25% are covered with assistants. In other words, over and above the pan-Hellenic average, those working with flexible labour relations, which is 20% of all workers in public hospitals. Here is how the dangerous and unhealthy policy of the Government of New Democracy is revealed. No, therefore, health in cost-benefit logic. Here and now cover all needs if you want to talk about a national public health system. Don't hide behind your finger.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u111	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u112	Thank you, Madam President. Mr Colleagues, we can go together to the health structures to really see the changes that have taken place. But before that happens, you can enter the National Health System, give you the elements of the recruitments that have taken place in the last year, especially in order to tackle pandemics in the structures of the National Health System. Our initial schedule for two thousand ancillary staff recruitment has been overtaken. There are more than seven and a half thousand auxiliary staff hired. I told you that over a period of 12 months, forty-six permanent medical staff were created at the hospital. I also told you about the plans, the proposals that have been put forward in the context of the energy upgrading of hospital structures and the Recovery Fund, in order to modernise the obsolete existing structures. And I told you once again that the health system needs permanent solutions to meet the increased needs and we are working in this direction. However, it is not possible for decades in the National Health System or all the gaps that have been created to be covered in a short time. Last year we have covered great gaps and huge deficiencies. Indeed, I have said that we have created this deposit, because things have been done in a short time, so that after the end of the pandemic we can move faster on to the changes that the National Health System needs. I shall now refer to the hospital infrastructure. The hospital only produces oxygen. Some problems with the secondary coverage of needs are dealt with and under no circumstances will this service be interrupted. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] I would like to repeat once again, because you have told me that I repeat some things, because you too in your questions are used to saying the same thing, we have said it a thousand times, we have answered them, the numbers speak for themselves both in recruitment and in other actions that have so far been taken in the National Health System, in order to fill the gaps and shortcomings of the past. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fourth under No 419/12-2-2021 topical question of the First East Attica of Mera25 Mr. Maria Apatzides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Pursuance of the "Erasinian" Hospital". You have the floor, Mrs. Apajidis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, the intensity of the pandemic disease of COVID -19 has been assembled with the Attica nursing institutions, making it more than ever necessary to create an additional hospital, and even in eastern Attica, over half a million inhabitants. In fact, both the present New Democracy Government and the SYRIZA's previous government had made a preliminary commitment to implement this plan. Genetic cause of this implementation could be the exploitation of the “Erasinio” Hospital area. As you know, this is an unexploited area in Coropi, which would be a private oncology clinic, but it could be covered by primary care functions and, on the other hand, by the entire range of services of a general hospital, of course, focusing on oncology. It was the largest investment in health and the first century in our country, with the total cost of the entire creation touching 100 million and the capacity of two hundred and twenty beds with modern medical equipment. Nevertheless, 'cost coal', and even in recent years, Eurobank has sought to shut down the property, but without result, because the process is either barren or suspended. This situation has been postponed several times with the last December 18, 2020, in which the bank will do through an auction process both the building that is on a sound and building plot of fifty acres and electromechanical equipment, such as transformers, lifts and boilers placed on it. In support of what we have said, while we have already entered the third pandemic wave in our country, there is a huge shortage of IF beds and, on the other hand, a lack of places that can be in vaccination centres outside hospitals with the East Attica flare with a need for health units. In view of the above, Mr Secretary, how do you intend to resolve the acute and distinct problem of the absence of a general hospital throughout the region of Eastern Attica? Will you make the immediate use of the amateur Hospital for the benefit of the citizens of Eastern Attica in these difficult pandemic conditions that we experience as a society as a whole? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u115	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Apatzidis, the Eastern Attica has indeed been developing over the last two decades and is very rapidly populated. I would remind you that within the limits ten health centres are being developed and operated from which nine 24/7 are being built. These, of course, fall within regional and local hospitals, which are in turn developed in the wider areas of the municipalities of Eastern Attica. Therefore, first of all, at the level of primary health care, these health structures cover the needs of primary care services. There are structures which could be further developed to form the basis for more health services, such as the Rafina Health Centre, which has essential specifications and possibilities to provide increased health services. I would also remind you that the nearest hospital for these areas is Voula's General Hospital. Also, all these areas through the Mediterranean Avenue and the Attica Road are connected in a short time with the large hospital structures of Athens. Therefore, access to hospital structures for the residents of the region is given. The debate on the existence of a new hospital structure within the geographical limits is indeed an issue that could be discussed under specific conditions. But not build a hospital to say we made another hospital. We need to see how the health map is formulated and, of course, how the people of the region have access to services they need. You referred to the "Erasinio" Therapy. I am well aware of the case, which is complicated, because it is a private initiative in order to raise this therapy facility, which has remained in the middle. Indeed, this building is owned by a bank, which is trying to auction it. It is worth noting that the licenses given for the construction of the "Erasiniou" for its operation as a nursing unit are no longer valid and definitely need new licences from the beginning in order to exploit this building at first instance. There are many open issues. This building does not belong to the Ministry of Health. There are obstacles which make problematic even the debate on the integration of this structure, since, as I have said, the authorisations for setting up are no longer valid. Even if we assume that there was a private interest - which seems to exist - in order to move on to the investment and to build up with new licenses for private treatment, the investor is asked to lift all burdens, financially, legally and other procedurally, so that all the obstacles to which I have referred are put aside. At this stage the Ministry of Health cannot bear these burdens in order to own the hospital. I would ask you not to connect this, the number of hospital units, to the treatment of pandemic. No matter what hospitals we have, the needs are, of course, growing. But at some point the powers of every system, even the richest, the most modern, are finite. The treatment of pandemic is dynamic and requires rational utilization of all available forces and forces that we can have at our disposal. When this happens, the resources available to us, such as single-medicine beds, intensive beds, personal protective equipment and so on, are managed efficiently and efficiently for the benefit of the citizens. After all, the substance is after the end of the pandemic to stay in the National Health System all those infrastructures that we have developed and modernised, so that we can use them even further. To sum up, the existence of a new hospital in East Attica should always be discussed with regard to the real needs, as reflected by the health map we are working on. It's a map of health services needs and not just a map where we place hospital structures on it. Unfortunately, however, we cannot directly connect them to the "Erasinio" Therapy as long as the regime that governs it continues to be at all levels of problematic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u117	Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, if I may, with all due respect to your face, you have been placed at every level without any political substance. You were electorally saying other things. Right now you're saying other things. But I will speak with data. First of all, with the ICUs filling up, as the coverage rate of the COVID -19 beds exceeds 90% in Attica - right, Minister? - with delays in the vaccination process, not only in terms of vaccine receipts, but also in terms of organising and handling vaccinations concerning the Government, with mutations deporting, increasing the chances that the coronary pandemic will not continue to trouble us for a while, as you said, but for some time yet, we will have to look seriously at the data we have before us on 'Erasinios' and eastern Attica. Firstly, we have unexploited and incomplete the largest investment in the health sector in Greece for the twenty-first century. I'm not saying it. It's called the data and the numbers. "Erasinio" aspired to be the only hospital in Southeast Europe to specialise in the prevention, diagnosis and treatment of neoplastic diseases. At the same time, however, it would also serve local society, providing all the range of primary care and services of a general hospital. Secondly, we have the third largest regional unit in the country with more than half a million inhabitants, five hundred sixty thousand in particular, according to the 2011 census. The entire region of East Attica has no general hospital, despite the fact that it is the largest population after the Athens and Thessaloniki town complexes. The "Suspion" you told me, beyond the old age of its facilities and the shortages in modern medical equipment, cannot cover the people in Acharnes. I think you understand that. Thirdly, apart from local, tourist, such as Zuberi, the eastern Attica has three more important sources of development. The largest airport in Spata, the ports of Lavrio, Rafina, is located within its limits. The presence of a hospital like "Erasinio" at a nearby distance like Koropi could be an additional development pole, operating as a destination for medical tourism, that is, beyond all that I told you before. From a health perspective, the hospital is a capacity of two hundred 10 beds and can, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, contribute directly to the provision of primary and secondary care and care services and the development of modern health services and common health and prevention programmes, in cooperation with local authorities. At the same time, the "Erasinios" could dismantle hospitals in Athens, while being an integrated hospital infrastructure for the inhabitants of the whole region. Nevertheless, whoever passes through Varis-Koropios Avenue reflects a building complex of fifty thousand square meters which remains unclaimed, as a victim of the monumental neck signed by you, SYRIZA and PASOK. It is a sign of the indifference of the government, which does not have in its priorities the possibility of taking advantage of it for the benefit of the citizens of Eastern Attica. Don't repeat what it's like. If the space finally comes into the hands of a private person, a strategic opportunity will be lost for the State in the fields of health and the economy. Methods of refinancing, administration and operation of the hospital can be found. What is lacking is the determination, Minister, the will of the state, that is to say yours, to make promises and promises that you and SYRIZA have occasionally given. There is a huge need for a new hospital in East Attica, and this need should become a priority for you in the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u119	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Apatzides, I will repeat once again that you are wrongly linking the management of the pandemic to the "Erasino" Therapy. Secondly, as far as Voula's "Sclippi" is concerned, the structures of all hospitals in the country are obscured, but there has been an attempt to modernise its infrastructure. Visit Voula's "Asclipio" to see how modern its infrastructure and building infrastructure have been, mainly from money coming from donations. I will repeat once again that it is not building where we place a building. I told you to discuss this issue for a hospital in Eastern Attica, but in the context of a comprehensive map containing it, it will reflect needs for health services. They've changed the data in recent years. I told you, we have the Attica Street. We have access to the large hospital structures of Attica in a very short time. You referred to the Acharnes. Have you counted how much time one of the Acharnes needs to go to the General Hospital of Kifissias in the "Agioi Anargyros"? Less than ten minutes. There's a structure over there. Finally, I will say another word about the 'Erasinio'. Very nice what you said to develop health tourism and all other infrastructures and come from abroad, come currency, develop new services at both primary level and manage specific events such as oncological, even restoration services. I wish that the efforts made by investors will be able to continue this investment, which - I repeat - will have to start from the outset, because the permits issued to build this complex are no longer valid.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the second under No 426/14-2-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Primary Care for Health and vaccination". Mr. Poulas has the floor for his prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is undeniable that strong and reliable public health must be based on organised and adequately trained primary health care. The need has come even more strongly to the surface because of the pandemic of COVID -19 regarding the intercept of virus, control and management of suspected cases at first level, as well as the conduct of vaccination. Unfortunately, however, the reality in our country is quite different, as so far the government has done absolutely nothing towards the real strengthening of primary care structures with personnel and infrastructure, so that they can properly manage the COVID and non-COVID pre-private cases and play a leading role in the process of vaccination against COVID -19. In particular, on the issue of vaccination against COVID -19, government planning could have been much more active in the region's health centres, as the government had already announced. This would avoid the frequent phenomena of confusion and suffering among our elderly fellow citizens, who in many cases have been called upon to travel many miles, even by sea miles, in order to be vaccinated. Since the struggle to limit the pandemic requires directly an organised primary health care plan and since primary health care should be actively and more intensively involved in the process of vaccination against COVID -19, I ask you, Minister: when will primary care structures finally be fully involved in the vaccination process in order to stop suffering and confusion among citizens? Do you intend to regulate the field of primary health care in order to respond effectively to the important work of public health that is to be undertaken, especially at the pandemic time? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Poula. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, you refer to your question that primary health care has not been exploited in the context of the treatment of pandemic. You're not right. The reality is completely different. From the very first wave of pandemic we incorporated health centers first into the large urban centers in the process of receiving, managing and sorting suspects and confirmed coronary cases, thus trying to dismantle the hospitals that raised and continue to raise the high weight of coronary patients. It is worth mentioning a typical example, the Health Center on Alexandra Avenue, which was one of the first to enter the battle against the coronary and managed - and continues to do so - a large number of suspected and confirmed incidents on a daily basis, serving the needs of the citizens and dismantling secondary care structures. It should be noted that all this management is carried out at the same time as the normal functioning of health centres and the service of citizens on examinations and appointments that are relevant to the provision of health services not related to the coronary. And of course, the health services provided at primary level need to be upgraded, I will agree with you, with further staff support, maintenance and modernisation of building infrastructure, renewal of equipment, incentives for doctors to serve health centres. We know them, and we intend to do them. The management of the pandemic, however, has forced us to have turned our attention to the coronary, without leaving behind our efforts so that we can complete an institutional framework new for primary health care in our country. And a symbolic proof of our intentions is both the establishment of the General Secretariat of primary health care and the implementation of the vaccination of the population with operational arms of primary health care. I would like to focus on vaccination at this point, because you refer to your question. We've said it. All the vaccination lines to be developed on the ground will exceed a thousand. And this development - a doctor you are, you know very well - is gradual and is made with certain logic. Greater quantities of vaccines we receive, more vaccination lines will be opened in order to ensure that vaccine doses are not lost and, of course, to serve the entire population. The implementation of the pre-vaccination priority in larger numbers of population groups also implies the need for more vaccination centres. I repeat that all the vaccination centres designed to open up to the ground are gradually opening up and will be fully developed in the next few months, especially in order to avoid losing a single vaccine dose, but also to quickly serve our fellow citizens and be able, by the beginning of the summer, to have been able to inoculate this critical proportion of the population that will enable us to build the necessary and necessary immunity wall. Mr Poula, I repeat by summarizing that the drafting of the legislative changes needed to reorganise primary health care is under way. The pandemic, as well as the implementation of citizens' vaccination, is managed at a parallel and independent level. The active readiness of primary health care to respond, of course, to the necessary changes, such as support for subsidiary staff, the legalisation of overtime workers in vaccinations and other similar actions. I am sure that very soon we will be able in this Chamber to discuss the changes that primary health care needs so that our country can actually finally have an integrated primary health care system that meets the needs of all citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u125	Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have heard from you and from what I understand you are about to bring a health care bill. I hope that he will come to discuss a great deal of serious issues. What matters to us, however, is that the contribution of primary health care to the treatment of pandemic and the carrying out of vaccinations helps decongested hospitals from both the carrying out and the vaccines, but also hospitals should not carry out tests. Unfortunately, however, we regret that the government has taken little action in this direction. You've activated very few vaccination centres in the country. And this is evidenced by a number of protests coming from different parts of the country to the incredible suffering of our elderly fellow people, who are called upon to travel many kilometres to find themselves in the nearest vaccination centre recommended by the electronic platform. Let me give you some examples. In Argolida, at the Health Centre of Kranidio, it only operates a vaccination centre for sixty to sixty to four years. To vaccinate vulnerable groups of eighty-five or more age groups, eighty-five and eighty-three, are forced to go either to the Spetses, to Argos, or to Nafplion. You also know that there is suffering in Thessaloniki. In particular, only two vaccination centres have been set up in the Municipality of Naples Sicily in places that do not meet the required increased needs for a large number of vaccines per day, when hundreds of citizens from all over Thessaloniki are sent to these vaccination centres. In Kalymnos, our elderly fellow citizens are invited to travel to Rhodes to be vaccinated. In Corfu, the hundred twenty thousand inhabitants and the huge and ugly road network operate only two vaccination centres located in the center of the island, without care and planning for the activation of more vaccination centres in the north and south of the island. These examples I give you are very little. I could mention more. But at this point, I would like to ask you one more question. What about those hundred EGE's Health Units that are supposed to be active on the vaccination piece? Have they been activated? How many vaccinations have they carried out so far? Also, are you thinking, Minister, to deal with the issue of those being vaccinated by way of derogation from the list? For example, Corfu has been ordered SADs for a doctor who has had vaccines derogating from the priority series. The same phenomenon was observed in a nursing home in Volos. Today, doses of vaccines were summarised, which were then given to people who did not belong to the priority groups. They are approaching similar complaints day after day. What do you intend to do about it? Woe if we get to the point where vaccination is used for micropolitical benefits. We have heard the Secretary General of the Primary University, Mr Themistocleous, on 2 February, in briefing about the vaccination course in our country to say that more than a thousand people will be recruited to help the vaccination project and that so far five hundred people have been recruited exclusively for the vaccination work. What specialties have they been hired? What is the procedure they have been hired? What structures have they been distributed and employed? When will the uptake of the next five hundred to operate more vaccination centres? Finally, I will say this: Minister, we understand that the vaccination project is difficult and complex. Incomplete planning, however, makes vaccination even more difficult and complicated for the citizens of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u127	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, I will repeat - and I am sure you are more aware of the planning that has been carried out for the vaccination of the population, because you are a doctor - we said that there is a plan for the development of all vaccination centres, which we had announced at the beginning of the vaccinations. You know very well that this cannot be done from one day to the next, because the vaccines are gradually coming. And we all know that the quantities available to us have been less than those that are currently coming and will come in the next few months. What do we do? Shall we open up health centers without vaccines, people go and have no vaccines to do or open health centers with a few vaccines and trouble our fellow citizens when they have to carry out a vaccine? In any case - we have said so - we have ensured doses for the whole population. All our fellow citizens who wish to do the vaccine will do so and there is a specific time series that this vaccine will take place. You mentioned the decongestion of hospitals with the help of primary health care. That's what we've done since the pandemic. And let us not forget that primary health care is not just health care centres, it is all the structures and all the doctors - and the private sector - pharmacists, physiotherapists, dentists, doctors involved with the EEA, who have continued and continued to provide health services to all our fellow citizens. We also carried out a test, which you said, in primary health care, precisely so that we can evaluate the incidents at primary level and, if necessary, get into hospitals and, secondly, to dismantle the hospitals. In many cases the number of tests carried out at primary health care exceeds 50% of all tests carried out in health centres and in hospitals in specific areas. And these tests, diagnostics continue with the COMYS. It's not just health centers. It is also the movable units and fixed points of the EGE where diagnostic tests are carried out. You also spoke of EGE's JOBS and the care units of the elderly. We are well aware that these mobile units have been vaccinated by our fellow citizens who are in elderly care units. So the KMYs are here and in our operational planning to vaccinate the population in order to get vaccines in the elderly care units. Finally, as far as the complaints you refer to are concerned, we have said that we will not tolerate any derogation from the rules which apply. All complaints shall be examined by the competent bodies, the Transparency Authority and any other body responsible. The necessary measures are being taken and sanctions are certainly being imposed, as has happened, if such phenomena are observed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the third with number 432/15-2-2021 topical question from the Athens Parliamentary I of the Communist Party of Greece, Liana Kanelles to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Problems due to the submissiveness of the Pathological Laboratory of the Hospital of Agios Savvas". Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u130	Thank you very much, Mr President. You'll allow me to take off the mask. We're a few in here. The distances are too long. And I can explain to you that I am taking it out, Minister, for the inconvenience that the question I have to ask you about. Honestly, I'm telling you. It chokes me to get off of you. I didn't want to go. I don't think I had to ask that kind of question today. I've heard you tell the other guys. You've said it a thousand times. Train proof of your intentions! The first letter came to you on November 18, 2019, the second on January 14. You have been one, two, three, four, five, six, seven in 2020 and two in 2021. For what? For the subscribing of the pathology laboratory of the largest tumor anticancer hospital in the country, the well known to all "Saint Savvas". Once you hear about cancer in Greece, your mind goes directly to "Savvas". We have histolog examinations which delay two months minimum and are already threatening to become longer in time. Especially the accumulation and huge problems of delays in the processing of surgical preparations outweigh imagination. The hypotension is dramatic. You can't say that you've hired doctors or declared positions or that you're going to solve it. It doesn't pick up in the long term here. In "Savva" there are such deficiencies at the moment, especially in the pathology - frankly I say to you - as in the other sections, which I regretted the woman who signed it and who was forced to resort to the legal counsel of the Medical Association in order to be able to listen to it. There are three months late to contact a doctor at "Savvas" plus two months to get the result of the histological examinations. We're talking about cancer! He's been yelling at the JRC since the first day. You turned the country into a country... It could happen elsewhere. We don't care if it happens elsewhere. This is where we demand that this does not happen. We're talking about one disease, about hospitals only one disease. We've got 80% of the O.R.S.'s out of control, at an overwhelming rate. They have left the department and are going to leave the next four auxiliary doctors within the next period. The scientific director of the department says that on the basis of the four who left and leave now that we are talking, he was making 50% of the job, the already retarded to get out of work! Do you know what it's like for an oncologist to pick up a patient, give him treatment in a month, and the oncologist can't do anything because he doesn't have the result of the tests? Throughout the entire section of 'Saint Savva' - we are talking about over eighteen thousand preparations - months now, throughout 2020, they kept preparations more than they should in formol. The last approach to the mobilization that took place was "take it and take it out of the hospital, in other laboratories" under these "covidencies" conditions, which we all talk about. So the whole "Savvas" and the pathology will work with three permanent doctors and an adjunct. Tell me: What can these people do? How are they gonna get through this job? Concern is more than obvious. What can I tell you? Do you want me to tell you more? If you want me to tell you more, I'll tell you a bomb, now that you're in telephony, now that the working world is standing in front of the screens, now that the kids are standing in front of the screens. As I speak to you about "Savva", I will tell you a word about cancer, and I say it responsibly, and please and I challenge you to go examine it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u131	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u132	There is - and I conclude, Mr President - an increase of 137% in children's cancer under the age of 15 in the Attica Children's Hospital and they are head cancers in the majority of them. We must begin to see the consequences and how they appear. There must be miracles for children to be in surgery in time - even if the tumors are good, because they are children - because the anaesthetics are missing. I mention it as a sample of what needs to be done here and now! There is no room for the long term! So you have to fill the pathology at St. Savva's! But now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u133	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kanelli, I will reassure you to be able to wear your mask easily for what is going on in "Saint Savva". Indeed, this is the situation and I will go to the point, because you are surely aware - to ask this question - that six are the organic posts in the hospital. He was still serving and serving subsidiary staff, which has been recruited at permanent posts in other hospitals - so he will be leaving within a short period of time - so that doctors can take up their permanent positions. There are two people at the moment and two other places have been opened and they are going to be completed. But even if all the organic positions were covered, our argument and the debate should not run out to how much the covered positions are, because they may have been, but the needs that we really need, even the whole of the empty organic positions, have not been enough, have not been enough. In fact, there was also energy from the management of the hospital, so that the needs of the pathology department with subsidiary staff would be met, but that was not possible because there were no doctors on the list. So what did we do? In order to proceed with the processing of biopsies quickly, the hospital took a decision to conclude an agreement with the pathology laboratory of the Kapodistrian University of Athens and the results of this cooperation are already tangible. In a hundred four samples, for example, from the orthopedic oncology clinic dealing with sarcasms - a very difficult case of cancer - the answers came within seven days and in fifteen samples from the gynecological clinic the tradition was again in seven days. It is a cooperation that gives rise to, has tangible results and we will extend it and enable this successful cooperation to proceed with other hospitals as well. It could be that hospitals, especially in the centre of Athens, could cooperate in order to have the results of biopsies more quickly, which in no case should the time of the outcome be too long, because they are in danger of living. You referred to the 80% reduction in surgery. The decisions of the Ministry of Health, which are reflected in circulars - and have become clear everywhere - do not concern the oncological incidents. All oncological events take place as a priority in the National Health System. The reduction in surgery in other hospitals is up to 80%, not 80%. And that is what is being done for concrete reasons, so that, when there is an increase in coronary cases, we can also protect health workers, but also use the O.R. infrastructure and staff, such as anesthetists, in order to respond to increased demand for health services. The same goes for childhood cancer. I undertake to come back and answer the number you mention, 137% increase in child cancer. I think that there is no delay or any operation of our small fellowship with child cancer has been postponed, because I told you that the directives are clear as regards the management of the oncological incidents during the pandemic period. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Here, Mrs Canelles, you have the floor for dentistry, and I will ask you for consistency in time as far as possible.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u136	Yes, yes, and I will keep the mask not because you reassured me, Minister. I normally have to get her out, or I'm gonna shut up. You're answering me again from the jury. Again, you're trying to find a solution. In 2014, the 11 declared organic positions for ‘Savvas’ were not reached. In 2014, they didn't make it! The 2014 job was not the job it is today. And for us to agree with numbers - I really have to ask, I am not a doctor - the one-day processing of surgical preparations involves a full-time day in the rapid biopsies and similar to two or three-day full-time webpage. Unexistent and skilled, the qualified doctor - who has left over - makes his own quick biopsies, takes the surgical preparations, puts a protocol number, deals with his or her webpage and microscopy. This is not a worker's farm, it's an over-exploitation. Cover and squeeze the holes and tell me hospitals that already lack to cooperate with each other to cover the shortcomings. You tell me to go say to doctors, who have two children or three children, and do double shifts, and they can't stand and at some point reach the afternoon shifts that they can't do, or do their shifts normally, that they have to do them too, so that they can be covered by the guilty, because we can't have more posts, more doctors, more qualified people. And most of all, I didn't tell you that there was just a lack of staff. In my question, if you didn't notice, I'm saying there's more missing. In the letters you have been sent missing storage spaces, there is a lack of technological equipment. Missing - what can I tell you? - everything it would take to say that he has the largest oncology hospital in this country called "Saint Savvas". And it's indicative of where the situation goes. Today is the university, tomorrow instead of the university, you will find and book a contract with a private workshop. That's what you're gonna do. And you're going to go to someone private, and you're going to give the job, because it's not coming out. And then I'm wondering why whatever stone I raise in any hospital in Europe and America, we have five, ten, to thirty, fifty, a hundred, two hundred thousand Greek doctors - I am exaggeratingly saying the number - who are spreading, discovering and not here. Because if you didn't use the university to do the work of San Savva - who had to make it a hospital oncology - it might have been the doctors here and did research at the university. So how long will this policy continue? And can I tell you something else? Go and be patient with us as a JRC and talk about it a thousand times before you do it and you tell us a thousand times that you did it perfectly. Neither can you face and give us a thousand times to sit here waiting for any cancer and anyone's illness. I feel responsible. If you do not feel responsible and you are extremely pleased, to send a message to the cancer patients that their problems have been solved.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u137	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Canelli, I have never said that we are satisfied with the situation, because we have found solutions to everything. I say this because we know the problems that exist, we have captured the existing situation and we are looking for solutions. I spoke about the cooperation of the "Saint Savvas" with the University of Athens. What's wrong with that? I also spoke about an effort I had previously made, when I was commander in the 1st Health Region, in order for the pathological laboratories of the major hospitals in the center of Athens - because we know that within a radius of ten kilometres are the ten, fifteen large complexes of Athens - to unite their forces, which is called a scale economy, so that they can have faster results and to deal more quickly. You have done so a little further with regard to cooperation with the private sector. Let me just say once again that it is important that our fellow citizens do not pay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u139	Are you going to make a climate economy in cancer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u140	Mrs. Kanelle, find out what the economy is and then tell me. I'm telling you about the production capacity that a lab has. Do you know why they're stalling some tests in hospitals? Because they're trying to collect samples so the reagents won't go down. So, what better than collecting samples from the surrounding hospitals and running the results on the same day? Look for it a little better! This will say a climate economy, it will say economy, it will say efficient use of resources, it will say that we have the results in a short time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u141	Thank you, Mr. Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u142	Mr President, can I make a point? It is not on my question, but because I am here, and if my colleagues allow me to do so too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u143	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u144	Mr Minister, go in front of the HELEXPO vaccination centre. Outside today is low temperature, not as much as he had in the past few days. There, then, you will see a huge tail and you will see great people on the sidewalk. Please put two tents, three umbrellas and five plastic chairs for those who can't stand. If you go there, you'll see that there's people that grow old and can't stand it. Believe me, this is not an economy of scale, but an economy of common sense. If you can do it, so I don't want to tell you you should put two stoves like the ones they put in the cafeteria.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u145	Good, Mrs. Canelley. We continue with the tenth question under number 428/15-2-2021 of the Second Chamber of Deputies B2' West Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Konstantina (Nantia) Giannakopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The need to prioritise vulnerable groups in the process of vaccination against COVID -19". Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, today, two months after the start of the vaccination programme in the country, vulnerable groups with a disease of eighteen to fifty-nine are still waiting to be vaccinated. Last week, Minister, we heard the committee's announcements that they will be incorporated in the near future, not everyone, but the first category. As for the second category, from May onwards, we see, as it turns out. This is something that, as you can see and I think we are all aware here, is something acidic, that is to say to explain why vulnerable groups should be given priority over what is happening in all the other countries of the European Union. Of course, Minister, we welcome these announcements and of course they are in the positive direction. But it was too late to correct a very big mistake and, unfortunately, they have very serious consequences for these people and their families. The truth is that a valuable time has been lost for their vaccination, which, at best, for the first group will begin after a month. If, Minister, he had given the Ministry a substantial and real priority, as Mr Kikilis said - we do not say so, Mr Kikilias had said before the vaccinations began that they would be prioritised after the hospitals - at the moment they would have already been scheduled and that a critical proportion of these people would have been vaccinated. All this is happening at the same time when for all the European countries - with the exception of Spain alone - there is a prioritisation of vulnerable groups at the same time as the United States Center for Disease Control and Prevention confirms public and scientific evidence and studies showing that vulnerable groups have a much greater risk than being invasive. I mean, someone who makes chemo or haemorrhages and stays without vaccine for weeks, while entering hospitals, you know what a huge risk he's getting into. So the question is clear, Minister. First, do you have a record for all the citizens belonging to vulnerable groups, such as the kidneys? Until when do you estimate all of our fellow humans belonging to vulnerable groups with underlying illnesses have been vaccinated? Explain why the age group of sixty to sixty-four were prioritised over the vulnerable groups with illnesses and ages of eighteen to fifty-nine or sixty-four and tell us whether you are thinking at least of solving this major mistake, to propose these people to the vaccination of "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" which is unique and therefore, at least in that way you would fix this big mistake that you have so far committed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u147	Good. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Vassilis Kontozamanis, presents for the minutes the abovementioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm going to need a little more time, because there are a lot of questions that Mrs. Giannakopoulos raised. But I'm gonna run out of my question if I need to take time from my denture. Ms. Giannakopoulou, I'm going to start with the question. The vaccine "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" has not even come to our design - because there is a design - when we have all of our vaccines, which teams will be vaccinated. I'll come back. I would like to introduce a brief introduction before entering into the essence of your question and answering your questions in particular. First of all, vaccination of the whole population is a priority of the government. The organization of this project is huge, giant and requires the involvement of ministries, institutions and the Armed Forces in order to carry out this great task. This is a complicated process, because we are talking about different vaccines, with different conditions of storage, storage, handling and carrying out the vaccine. Indeed, the "JOHNSON & JOHNSON" vaccine you mentioned and we are waiting for it is an easy vaccine in the management and we have it in our design. We've started with the tough vaccines, though. From there on, the success of the whole project depends on two things and it has two goals. Firstly, we want to inoculate the entire population that wants to be vaccinated, in accordance with the priorities set by the National Committee for Vaccines. Allow me here to make a correction to your question, because you refer to the government's decision. It is the National Committee for Vaccines that has set the priorities and I will explain which priorities. Secondly, we seek not to miss a single dose of vaccines. There are specific difficulties that we are going through and every day that pass increases both the number of vaccinated and the vaccines that we have and we will have at our disposal. In order to implement the vaccination of the population, as I have said, the National Committee on Vaccines has made a recommendation, as is done in all countries, and it has delivered an opinion on the first vaccination of health personnel and staff from the social services of the country, as well as those who live or work in care structures for elderly people and sufferers, together with the vaccination of pupils and staff of special schools. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] The Committee has then delivered an opinion on the prioritisation of vulnerable groups, i.e. groups of people with a higher probability of severe coronary disease. The vulnerable groups are, on the one hand, susceptible to age and, on the other, due to an underlying disease. We have not discovered the wheel, neither have we the Committee on Vaccines. International data show that age factor is a very strong aggravating factor and the risk of serious illness is growing in a continuous way as the age increases and this has become the priority for older people starting from older ages. Disease-sensitive groups have been distinguished in two categories: the category of increased risk and the category of serious risk of illness. In the category of increased risk, diseases have been subjected to the most serious burden, and on the basis of data from e-government, it is estimated that about three hundred thousand people are involved. It is intended that people with these diseases should be vaccinated immediately after seventy-five years of age, because this is equivalent to the risk of serious illness in this group. People with second-class diseases, who have an increased risk of illness - I reply to your question if we have evidence of the number and categorisation of vulnerable groups, and I tell you that we have them, and I will present them in the Minutes in detail for these groups - are due to be vaccinated immediately after the vaccination of the people aged sixty to sixty-four years, as well as because this is the risk of serious illness that they are in charge of. It should be noted that the assessment of the relative risk posed by the different groups comes from data assessing the independent influence of the underlying factor, as well as the independent influence of the age factor, which is necessary, because advanced age tends to relate to the existence of underlying diseases. This was one of the reasons why the National Committee for Vaccines recommends vaccination with its ‘AstraZeneca’ vaccine for people aged eighteen to sixty-four years. If you see the definition of priority according to the Committee's suggestion, which is in a process of portrayal in a ministerial decision, you will see that you are right to go first with the age criterion we embolise the people of sixty to sixty-four years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u149	Minister, warm request, complete. After all, you have your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u150	EGE data on the age distribution of hospitals in intensive treatment units show that full vaccination of susceptible groups due to the age of 60 and over and vulnerable groups will be possible to prevent more than 75% of hospitalisations in intensive treatment units and more than 90% of coronary deaths. The data from the National Committee for Vaccines has been analysed and the priorities defined are the ones following most states in the rest of the world. The information you have requested, Mrs Giannakopoulou, for your best information on the vaccinations carried out in the age groups and, of course, on the analysis of the vulnerable groups is at your disposal. I'll testify to the minutes of the House. And one final point, Mr President, and I thank you for your tolerance. It seems clear that the age distribution of coronary deaths within an intensive treatment unit in the sixty-year-olds up to now is one thousand eight hundred nineteen and under sixty-three. The age distribution of coronary deaths belonging to a vulnerable group and hospitalised within an intensive treatment unit is a thousand seven hundred fifteen for the sixty-year-olds and over and two hundred seventy-seven for the sixty-year-olds and under. I therefore believe that these figures also confirm the correct design of the National Committee for Vaccines. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u151	Mrs. Yannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u152	Minister, with regard to what is happening in the other countries and what is happening in our country, the truth is that Greece is the only country in the European Union together with Spain where there have been horizontal and only age criteria for the issue of priorisation to vaccination, while in all the other countries, as in France, there is a rating for vulnerable groups with underlying diseases, which were vaccinated with over seventy-five. In Belgium, respectively, together with over sixty-five and in Germany, together with over seventy. There was a specific rating and a combination of both age groups and groups with underlying illnesses. Only in Greece and Spain was this horizontal logic solely based on age criteria, which poses reasonable questions and we still have not received a convincing answer. On the subject of public dialogue, Minister, I think that no one can argue that, of course, the people from seventy years of age and above need to be promoted for what you have said. However, the information you have said, if I have heard you correctly, is not clear about something very specific. The question is - and I put it very clearly - how many people from vulnerable groups of sixty to sixty-four have been placed in an ICU without an underlying disease. You mentioned a number that's been put into ICU from sixty to sixty-four. Of these, how many belong to the susceptible with underlying illness and how many are without a disease subject? It's such a simple question that I'm asking you. These people are not just numbers. You give that impression. These people are specific cases. I would like to tell you about a known, friend, a man of fifty-nine years old, who is a nephropath with 96% on the life expectancy, with type 2 diabetes mellitus, with insulin, with severe polysystemic disorders, which undergo dialysis three times a week due to chronic end-stage renal failure. Do you understand what the situation is? What are you going to tell his own people if he gets coronary? The conclusion is clear, Minister, what will happen to this man, because you have simply not predicted, like the other countries, their prioritisation. So the questions remain. As I said to you, yes, welcome is that you have decided after all this dome that has taken place, to introduce these people into your prioritisation for the first category, which will go with the ages of seventy - seventy-five, as you yourself said, Minister. For the second category, however, tell us a specific timetable, because, as we have put it down, it goes from May onwards. Can you tell us it'll happen sooner? Because we did not hear that from you. And, of course, if I can also table a proposal that would help some of these categories with the most immediate and easier vaccination, there could be mobile units to plan their vaccination in the health establishments that are moving so that they can take the necessary medical care. I will insist on this: yes, of course, the vaccine 'JOHNSON & JOHNSON' has not been approved, but at least show at least a good will from your side - because it is in a sense of prioritisation, when these people should not wait three months for the second dose of the vaccine - at least tell us that it is something you think of, do the only-dosing vaccine 'JOHNSON & JOHNSON', when it is approved, Minister. But show you're listening at least.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u153	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry. You know very well that you spoke close to seven minutes in protology, so warm request for consistency in time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u154	I'll be brief. Ms. Giannakopoulou, I answer your questions. The National Committee for Vaccines has sufficiently and clearly set priorities for how the population will be vaccinated, promoting the age criterion and following the vulnerability of the population groups. You mentioned why we are making a vaccine in over seventy-five and not in those with underlying illnesses. But our fellow citizens over seventy-five, eighty-five have underlying illnesses, so they are vaccinated. Secondly, we have given you the evidence in the minutes. You are talking about vulnerable people aged sixty to sixty - five years. Within an intensive treatment unit, I talked about a thousand seven hundred fifteen years old and over sixty. In category sixty to sixty-five there are two hundred seventy - five people and up to sixty - seventy - seven in total. The sixty to sixty-five years old are two hundred seventy-five on its own. In the age distribution of deaths in an intensive treatment unit without underlying illness throughout the thousand eight hundred nineteen to sixty-five are three hundred forty-nine, while in the sixty-five-year category there are four hundred three. I think that these figures confirm once again the correctness of the decisions of the National Committee for Vaccines. I wish we had vaccines not only for us, but for all countries to be vaccinated in a week, in a month or so of the whole population. Vaccines are gradually coming. The JOHNSON & JOHNSON will come and other vaccines provided for in the Europe Agreement will come. We will have vaccines for the whole population and, where necessary, - I am referring to specific groups of the population - such as our fellow citizens who cannot be moved, we will go with an easy vaccine, that of JOHNSON & JOHNSON, the monodotes you say, to inoculate our fellow citizens who need mobile units, as today the mobile EGE teams who go to the care units of the elderly and carry out vaccinations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u155	Good. Thank you, Mr. Minister. We continue with the fourth question under number 423/14-2-2021 of MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Intimidation, intimidation and vengeance towards "heroes" doctors who report reality to Rethymnon, Kilkis, Edessa, Giannitsa and Agios Savvas. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much, Mr President. And it's not just doctors, it's nurses. The most characteristic case, of course, is Mr. Catasta, a doctor at the 'Savvas'. He protested as the president of the workers because he started SADs for doctors and nurses who had had a coronary. If that's possible! And what did you do? It is a radiologist, a specialty - as Mrs Kanelli said earlier - in an inadequate specialty in San Savva. Send him to a COVID unit -19 in Salvation. Radiology! Do what? And that's not enough, but you wanted to take it all the way. He's the only one who doesn't renew the contract. You're firing him. Six thousand are the gaps at least and you're firing him. Yes, his contract has been solved since March, and that's dismissal. And it's not just him. You have started administrative exams, S.A., for Helen Ioannidou, Director of Pathological Clinics of Rethymnon Hospital, non-constitutionalist, Chairman of the Hospital's Committee on Infections, Chairman of the Hospital's Scientific Board, member of COVID -19. What did he say? He said there's no special doctor to cover the on-call at the emergency department. He said that there could be no new imports of patients into the pathological clinic, otherwise he would be left without a special pathologist TLP and patient safety would be at risk. You stopped the SAD, when both she and fifteen doctors left and four thousand Rethymnon citizens signed a resolution. For Eleni Stavroulakis and Simos Fostiopoulos, the president of the workers in Edessa and the Giannitsa also, because they said that they were unprepared, because they said this incomprehensible, as if not all society. But the doctors said so too, and that's unauthorized for you, doctors know things from the inside. Achilleas Kalemkerides, the General Secretary of the Workers' Association at Kilkis Hospital, also talked about the functional problems of the COVID section and oxygen supply malfunctions. ET again. Will you promise to stop persecution? Is that your policy? Are you being convicted through recruitment and ETS and redundancies to those who don't suit you? What time do we live? We live in the age of the coronary. Every doctor is necessary. Recruit. Cover the gaps instead of dismissing doctors and telling us you're not finding when you're looking.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u157	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, let me say that you are still coming to the House. No prosecution and no intimidation exists. If there was one, those voices could not be heard. The problem is that they are heard simply to create necessary noise, to raise dust and not to raise matters of substance, at least most of the time. Because these issues and problems that arise on a daily basis in hospitals are resolved in dialogue and discussion and have only one aim: real improvement of conditions in the National Health System, on the one hand, for doctors, nurses and other staff working in hospitals and health centres of the National Health System and, on the other, for patients seeking the best possible provision of health services. You refer to your question in four very specific cases that we know about. We've managed them. Let me assure you that under no circumstances has there been any extortion, neither intimidation nor vengeance. Therefore, these designations I return them. So you are referring to all four cases of workers in the National Health System, and you are giving me the opportunity to refer to actions that we have taken, in order to strengthen the major efforts made by workers in the fight against pandemic. Mostly it concerns recruitment to permanent and subsidiary staff without calculating costs, where necessary, for the payroll of such additional staff, without calculating costs for the supply of personal protective equipment and all the materials requested, so that all workers in the National Health System can work safely. Last year we granted the Easter aid to all workers in the National Health System in the form of a gift. We introduced a special leave for workers who really needed it for health reasons of their own, for the protection of their relatives and for the service of their family obligations. Mr Arseni, few can never express the many. You referred to four specific cases of workers. Workers who have never been sneezed and will never be sneezed, who have always been able and can and will continue to be able to make their criticism without considering whether they are right or not. Workers who don't need you for a lawyer. Workers who, in many cases, may disagree with them, but we do not distinguish them from the others, and we are the ones who in any case guarantee the right to express themselves freely. Because this is not Venezuela, and precisely for that reason we owe, where there is a dispersal of lies, her to deal with it by promoting the truth. I will repeat it once again. No blackmail, no intimidation, no vengeance. Your insistence I would say that it impresses us once I have made it clear to you that in all the above-mentioned cases there has been communication, discussion and management of conflicts from the administrations themselves, so that situations can be normalised. Neither the radiologist you mentioned was fired, nor in the Rethymnon Hospital, the doctor, as you said, was disciplinaryly prosecuted, nor did there ever have been fifteen doctors' resignations. Thank you very much, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Contozamani, you're really overreacting yourself. First of all, it is good to measure a little more carefully. There are five of the people I mentioned, but that is not the biggest problem with what you say. You're saying you're not comin'. So when you're sending someone who denounces the bad texts when you fire him, what are you doing? What would you do next? Would you kill him? Would you lock him up?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u161	What's dismissal? Do you know what's dismissal?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u162	Dismissal is when you renew all contracts and don't renew a man's contract because he bothered you, an X-ray in a hospital, for which Mrs. Canelle told you she didn't have any X-rays before. This is dismissal against the public interest and when you plead at every opportunity that you don't find doctors. This is dismissal against the public interest. Are you overcrowded radiologists? And what did that man denounce? That you sent three of his colleagues to ETUCs because they got sick with COVID. If that's possible! Are you going to tell us that you're not the ones doing exactly that? You drink terms and concepts in your mouth and twist them. Femaleity is when someone goes to talk and you're putting consequences on them. That's what you're doing. You say 'We do not count on expenditure'. Really? You, who have reduced the cost of health in the budget, do you not calculate costs in the midst of this situation? Where have you been, the last or the last in Europe, at COVID costs, and after the fuss you have done, have you become seventeen since the end? We, in other words, with your own management. Is that a cost calculation? I mean, whatever it is you've got to count on it. There are many incidents that we have not even mentioned. There is currently the political persecution at the "Saint Anargyr Hospital". I shall come back with a special question on this matter. At least stop persecuting these people right now. Do you want not to sneeze? Do not sneeze and commit yourself to doing so. Do it. At the moment, the management of the coronary epidemic is bankrupt by each side. Let me remind you of the evidence presented by Mr. Tsaucidis, Professor of Democritus, that on the basis of the reduction of daily EGE data 80% of deaths are out of intensive treatment units. In fact, we have a picture of beds in the hallways, patients in such a bad state in hospitals, hospitals in such a bad state, and you do not invest in intensive treatment units, you do not invest in recruitment, but all you do now is renew contracts for a few months. Is your organizational chart complete and you do fixed-term contracts? Are the needs you face or are there fixed health systems issues urgent? To finish, however, your management is aimed at a goal, not to strengthen the potential and potential of the public health system in the long term. That's the point. It is very regrettable that you are going through these measures even in the midst of this truly huge epidemic with regard to human victims.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u164	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arseni, I will repeat this - I shall be brief, Mr President - that there is no intimidation, no blackmail and no revenge. I told you that we were talking about five cases of four workers. I have made it clear to you that there has been communication, debate and management and, of course, everyone can say what they want and express what they want, democracy we have. And because you referred to the public health system, I think the numbers speak for themselves about how much we strengthened the health system with intensive care units, with staff. When we have emergency needs, we take emergency measures. Yes, we also hired auxiliary staff, because the procedures are immediate, but we have already been launched and have already been in the system of permanent medical and other staff posts, so that we can have permanent solutions to the health system. We are strengthening public health spending and supporting the public health system. We have proved this during the pandemic period and we will continue to do so to ensure equal access for all our fellow citizens to health services and that our country, which is a champion in private health expenditure, has a share of public health expenditure in relation to all health expenditure. Because public health expenditure is 55% compared to total health expenditure. So we cannot talk about a public health system when 45% of the costs come from the pockets of Greek taxpayers. By building a public health system, we will be able to overturn this ratio and really provide quality health services. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth under the number 443/15-2-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Argolida of the Movement of Change Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Sufficient staff shortages in the two hospitals of Argolida". Here, Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the outbreak of the pandemic is unfortunately in front of us and the staff of the HSH are asked once again to give the unequal struggle with the disease, without the government having done enough for its full armour and brave support. A government that was not at all taught by a year of pandemic continues in the same pattern as staff shortages. Especially the small district hospitals have been left unprotected and subordinated. In particular, in Argolida, the two hospitals have been operating for many months with great shortages in permanent and subsidiary medical staff of basic specialties. The results of the deficiencies are evident in the preparation of the on-call programme, where each month the two hospitals request assistance from the 6th RCD to fill gaps. For example, in January the Nafplio unit had sixty - six gaps and the Argos unit twenty - one gaps. The 6th Ministry of Foreign Affairs has so far covered these gaps with coughing tricks, moving doctors from health centers and regional hospitals of the county, creating an all-rooted system of newspapers with countless doctors' movements, transferring the problem to health centers and regional doctors, eliminating the medical staff and noting the quality of health services to citizens. A climax of the whole situation was that on Friday, February 5, 2021, the on-call program had changed. On Friday, when the Argos was supposed to be on board, Nafplio was inspected. This has been done without any information, with the result that the citizens are suffering and confusion. So since the knot arrived at the comb, you made a ten-doctor notice at the two hospitals in Argolida. However, because the intention of implementation is far too far away, I ask two questions: What is the timetable for hiring these ten doctors to the hospitals in Argolida? Until these recruitments are completed, how are we going to solve the problem? Also, you should know that the CIVID clinic, which operates with a doctor in the next few days, will not have a on-call weekend. They're trying to put cardiologists and other specialties into the program. to serve the CIVID clinic. This will also happen in Nafplio, because there's a doctor there again. How are we going to resolve these issues? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u168	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, I repeat, although you know, since you are a doctor, that the strengthening of the hospitals of the National Health System with human resources is carried out in two specific ways: either by recruiting permanent staff or by recruiting an AS. Since the first time we have taken over governance, we have exploited both these possibilities. I would remind you that in 2020 for the whole territory we have had three notices of permanent medical staff of four hundred and twenty-three, one notice of other staff of a thousand and nine hundred staff of various branches and specialties, and recently one new notice of nine hundred permanent medical staff. At the same time, the other and medical subsidiary staff currently serving in the National Health System exceeds ten thousand workers, of whom about 80% are new recruitments that have been carried out in our day. I would also like to point out here that all ancillary staff contracts serving at the HSY were renewed until October 2021, with a provision that our own government brought in and voted in Parliament. You understand, therefore, that our efforts are both lasting and bring results. We do, not only what we can, but more. As I said, this attempt does not stop. We will continue to strengthen the National Health System with permanent positions that the National Health System needs, but of course also with ancillary staff contracts. Full proficiency in human resources is our goal. As far as the Argolida hospitals are concerned, our goal is certainly to operate with adequate staff and, of course, to be able to continuously meet the needs that arise. A reference to ancillary staff serving in hospitals in Argolida. One and two, thirteen doctors, forty - eight nursing and auxiliary staff and forty - one is the number of other personnel. They support all these people in the operation of the two hospitals, ensuring their operation in any case. It is a fact - you said - that 2020 has been awarded a total of four places for both hospitals, which really does not correspond to meeting the real needs of the hospital. Therefore, in the new notice published a few days ago, ten new posts of doctors of various specialties were opened. They'll give a breath to these two hospitals. We will also have more positions in the year. The problems are not solved by these ten posts, but they are certainly one breath in the hospitals in the region. And with regard to covering these posts, I would like to assure you that the relevant staff will be assigned duty in four months after the end of the application period. In conclusion, I would like to say once again how important it is for us to strengthen the National Health System with health and other personnel. We've proved it in practice. We have strengthened and will continue to strengthen health units, not only now in the pandemic period, but then. It is part of our strategy to strengthen human health potential, which should be targeted and respond to the real needs of the system. We are working consistently on the basis of this strategy and we believe that in 2021 we will have significantly strengthened the National Health System, covering much of its needs for staff. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Poula, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u170	Minister, I believe that you are aware of the situation in which the two hospitals in Argolida are situated. You know that they are experiencing problems both in the functioning of the administration and in the services provided. That is why I ask you to bend on the problem. The solution you know who it is. The solution is one. The solution is to become a hospital - there is the plot - sometime for Argolida. This is the ideal solution for Argolida to solve the problems in both hospitals at last. But this solution must be fought, chased by it to become a reality, and I believe that through the Recovery Fund you have an opportunity to get this project into Argolida. Because it really needs one hospital, for the health structures in Argolida to function fully, for its inhabitants, but also for the thousands of visitors we have each year. Now, will you tell me, until this project is done, what are we going to do? How will these two hospital structures work that have an administration? Let me tell you the two problems I see. The first problem I see is that dealing with the administration of the 6th RCF is not the same. Her commander came to Argolida after a year and said to the social media that "I came to see what problems there are in the health structures of Argolida." But the essence was one. He came to pay his respects to Constantine Glyxburg. Is it accidental, so, that it came the day Constantine Glyxburg was vaccinated at Nafplio hospital? Let's go further. The management of the General Hospital of Argolida has entered a process of imperfection. They have internal concerns about which hospital structure will get more staff, but also resources, which affects relations between and between the workers in the two hospitals. Management is trying to create an artificial duplex of rivalry. If that logic does not stop immediately, we will have problems all the time. What do we say? We're saying that one hospital will have to work in addition to another. With this logic and one hospital and the other, with the same staff, they can function and function properly and produce work that Argolida needs right now. As far as recruitment is concerned, seven recruitments were carried out in Argos and one in Nafplio in 2020. In 2021, it turns backwards. Seven recruitments to Nafplio and three to Argos. A pathologist's place in Nafplio has also come out in September 2020. The point is that these positions, unfortunately, from 2020 until today have not been met. And if they were covered, they had little to cover. There is another serious issue that over eight doctors retired in 2021. These problems, how will they be solved? That's my point. That's my problem. At the moment, the two hospitals - I say it and I stress it - must operate complementaryly to each other and must not be subjected to cowardice procedures with each other. You should take care of that. We must finally stop the phenomenon of taking the whole world from health centers such as the Ljublion Health Center, and inviting Argos and Nafplio to cover gaps. At some point we need to see this. It has to end, because health centers also have needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u171	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poula, I'm pleased to note that there has to be a hospital unit in the county. There are solutions that are being examined, there are also funds from both the NSRF and the Recovery Fund, and I am pleased that you have made your point that one hospital has to operate complementaryly with the other - we are talking about two units 10 km away - so that we can ensure better service provision. This is demonstrated by the fact that these hospitals are interconnected under one administration, and in any case they will have to complete one another. As far as the positions of doctors and those to be retired are concerned, I do not think there is any reason to confront how many the Argos took, how many took Nafplio. We need to see it in the area as a whole. And, of course, because there will also be retirements, I said there will be further notices in the year and we will activate, not only in the case of Argos and Nafplio, but also in other hospitals the provision for the proclamation of the position of doctors six months before their retirement, so that at the moment of retirement the crisis and the doctors have been completed. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Questions to the Ministry of Health, which was eight. We continue with the seventeenth under the number 437/15-2-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Christos Katsotis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Expandance of SCH 1/2018 of cleaning staff at the Ministry of Finance and ASE and conversion of contracts in indefinite time". The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Apostolos Vésiropoulos. Mr Katsotis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that the existence of flexible working relationships for the cleanliness staff of the Ministry of Finance and later for more than fifteen years. It concerns mainly that part of the fixed-term HS staff of the Ministry of Finance, which was still working before 2004 and whose contracts were not converted into private law for an indefinite period with Presidential Decree 164/2004. In the notices of contracts for a fixed term of 1/2018, part of this staff that has been mobilised as well as other employees who have achieved this notice, a total of sixteen, fifty-six in the AIA and sixty in the Ministry of Finance, are working on eight-hour work since the notice and then a basic salary of EUR 650. However, they remain the unacceptable status of the fixedterm private-law contract. Instead of converting these contracts into an indefinite period or even prolonging the contracts, the Government has opened a new tender for those posts in 2020 with 1K/2020. This has resulted in a large majority of the existing cleansing staff being left out of the successful ones and their dismissal is imminent. We're talking about a hundred employees. The cleanliness needs in the buildings of the Ministry of Finance and ASE are very long over time. Cleaning staff have proved to be insufficient, while under pandemic conditions these needs are required to ensure the health and safety of workers and other personnel. It is well known that due to the overall subsistence which exists in the ADP - as you will know - and the intensification of the work that exists, an important part of this staff of cleanliness works in the DUA and employs essentially in other services, in the service of citizens. It is clear that the staff of the 1/2018 notices do not cover emergencies, but are an integral part of the proper functioning of the AIA services and the Ministry of Finance. So we ask you whether there is a government's intention to extend the scope of the contracts and what time it will do that. Also, if it intends to transform staff contracts into an indefinite period, as the needs are also lasting for the ADP and the Ministry of Finance. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. Mr. Besiropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, you know that the speaker shows absolute respect for parliamentary control procedures. But I have the same respect against the truth. I'm not petting ears, I'm not being lured from populism. I will answer you clearly and documentedly. Under Law 4506/2017, it is foreseen that to meet the needs of the ministries, the supervised entities and the independent authorities may be recruited by staff under a fixed-term private contract for up to eighteen months. But the pandemic has created new data. Easily no new procedures could be carried out for the recruitment of new staff under an eighteen-month contract. You are all aware of the reason for these difficulties in the middle of a lockdown, but also of all kinds of restrictions. That is why we voted for Law 4764/2020, which contains, among other things, regulations on the protection of public health against the consequences of the coronary pandemic. Article 180 of that law provides, inter alia, for the extension of private staffing contracts for the needs of cleanliness, storage and disinfection of the buildings of the central and regional services of the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Public Revenue Authority for reasons of public health protection and by way of derogation from Articles 5, 6 and 7 of Presidential Decree 164/2004. It goes without saying that this extension does not alter the nature of the employment relationship on the basis of which the employees were recruited in these posts. This provision also provides that the extension of the contracts will be completed after the completion of the recruitment procedures or tender procedures for the award of cleaning services and in any event the extension may not be extended after 31 March 2021. As far as your question is concerned about the conversion of this staff contract into contracts of indefinite duration is concerned, you know that competence belongs to the Ministry of Interior. The Ministry of Interior therefore notes in its letter of 29 January that any conversion of those fixed-term contracts into an indefinite period would be contrary to the provisions of Article 103(2) A and B of the Constitution in force. I shall also refer to the recruitment process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u177	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, how does this government and the previous one justify the decision to delegate sectors such as cleaning in this regard to contractors or to a fixed-term work which has been renewed for twenty years? Here we have an example of this. What does such a decision ensure? Does it ensure the best cleaning services, for example? Does it ensure better working relationships and employee pay? Are these the main issues raised in the decision, yes or no? It appears that the government is not the main, as is the case with the previous government of SYRIZA, which took advantage of the fight of the cleaners of the Ministry of Finance, but then, under the pretext of the Memorandum Restrictions, continued, with extensions of their contracts, the hostage. What do you ensure by entrusting contractors or contracts when workers work without rights, with hunger wages and in many cases unpaid for months? If you see, Minister, the questions, you will see many of the things that have happened in the previous period, but also in your term of office, now. One look at taking online, you will see a multitude of publications about workers in contractors or with fixed-term contracts denouncing the working ages, unpaid and uninsured or undeclared work, denouncing governments - and your own and the previous - that legalized these working relationships, the working daughter. Take a look at the Internet, you'll see all this. Is this the guarantee of well-paid jobs, which you say will be guaranteed with your policy? Is that the friendly investment environment? The Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Syrigos, at a corresponding question from the Vice-President of the Parliament, said they would assign the cleanliness of the University of Thessaly to contractors, because he cannot - he says - the ministers should deal with this matter. Is it devalued, Minister, to be employed by the Ministry in ensuring cleanliness, which is particularly important at this time of pandemic? Is it not the responsibility of political and service actors - as you say - to ensure the health and safety of workers, students and teachers? Do you think a worker working better under wilderness, under the bolt, in fear of redundancy, which changes day after day by a worker who is part of the workers of the workplace? What is the service of disseminating workers to various contractors or these elastic forms of employment, this pansperm, the mosaic? Does the argument of saving resources apply when you spend more money with your practice here too? That's not true either. Minister, the responsibility for the worker's hostage and the anxiety of having a job tomorrow belongs to all governments. However, the deterioration in the position of workers who see their way into the nightmare of unemployment, Minister, - these hundred families - is now your responsibility. You've exaggerated as government the individual responsibility for everything. Employees up to 20 years will find themselves in unemployment. Is it their responsibility? Isn't that yours? We therefore call on you to address directly the issue, which in these circumstances of the deep crisis will have tragic consequences. Workers fight, fight for the piece of bread we say. We as a JRC, Minister, are next to them and we also demand that you ensure their work with all rights. As I said on 31 March, the concern of the workers is great, and you must make them rest assured of the decision you have to make as government. And here today we expect you to say that you will make an effort to ensure that all the jobs of the workers in the Ministry and the ADP are secure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u179	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u180	Mr Colleagues, this category of workers is not excluded from future employment in the public sector or from the provision of permanent regular staff. Those employed under private-law contracts or contract contracts may participate in notices concerning the recruitment of regular staff to public sector bodies and, in fact, is counted on mobilisation and the criterion of experience and pre-service. As far as the new procurement procedure is concerned, I should like to inform you that both the Ministry of Finance and the Independent Public Revenue Authority have already taken all the necessary steps. The Ministry of Finance has launched a notice for the recruitment of sixty people in compulsory cleaning training with a employment relationship of eighteen months in order to meet the cleanliness needs of the Ministry. The notice was published under Protocol No 145192 on 18 December 2020. A corresponding notice was published on 24 November 2020 by the Independent Public Revenue Authority for the recruitment of a hundred persons in compulsory cleaning education with a fixed-term private-law employment relationship. I would like to inform you that the submission of applications and supporting documents by the parties concerned has already been completed. Given that the positions put forward concern a compulsory education staff sector, criteria and qualifications are specified by Law 4506/2017 and everyone knows that they are of a strong social character. In particular, the social criteria to which I referred relate are: the unemployment time of the applicant from four to twelve months, his family status, namely a multiple and a threefold family, as well as a number of children, the existence of a single parent family, any disability of the applicant or any disability of the parent, child, brother or wife of the candidate. Recruitment is also a criterion of identification, as well as the acquisition of relevant work experience in public sector or private sector bodies. The classification of the candidates in tables on the basis of these criteria is impracticable and is carried out in accordance with the intended grading and modulation procedure. In conclusion, I would point out again that the responsibility for the contracts in question is the Ministry of Interior, which points out in a document that any conversion of those fixed-term contracts into an indefinite period would be contrary to the provisions of Article 103(2)(a) and (b) of the Constitution in force. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr. Minister. And we continue with three topical questions concerning the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. We begin with the eighth under No. 425/14-2-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritona Arseni to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Direct elections to promote administrative boards of parents and guardians in primary and secondary education". The Secretary of State for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Macrey, will answer. Mr Arseni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, it is a very important matter, as the parents and guardians' associations and therefore associations and feds are at risk of being completely dismantled. If you think that the last elections were held in 2019, in May 2021, the term of office of all the last members of the school will end. We speak of high school and high school, but similar is the picture and many primary schools, as parents usually work in clubs older than children. So the clubs, associations and associations of parents and guardians are at risk. This is of enormous importance. It means that a part of the educational process is dissolved. That is why I ask you to agree here, in this Chamber, that, at the first opportunity, once the schools are opened, the standards set by the Scientific Committee for general meetings to be held in open spaces, with masks, with distances, with all the security measures for the epidemic, to prevent the break-up forever of this foundation of the educational process. Because, you know, once it's broken up and there's no continuity in the parents' and guardians' associations, it's going to be hard again to get there, to get young people into this process. We'll have a gap in the educational process. It is a crucial role for parents, because they come to represent a child, who according to the law is not represented by itself. The role is very important and irreplaceable. So I call on you for this simple agreement and for your commitment here that once the schools open up in open space, with open schools, there will be the process of general assemblies, so that they can proceed on the basis of the statutes of elections and the promotion of new councils, clubs and then, obviously, unions and federations. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u183	Good, Mr. Arseny. Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, I'm glad we're meeting again. Your interest in education is recorded, and that pleases us very much. I don't know if we're gonna agree on everything. I think we will certainly agree that the parental system in the form of parents and guardians is an official institutional way of cooperating school with the family environment. For us, the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs, parents are the most important but also corporate variable in the multifactorial equation of the educational process. They are with the teachers the direct and valuable partners of the Ministry, as their majority - without confusion of roles and without duplication of participation - promotes and supports the need for a climate of mutual understanding with the sharing of tasks and emphasis on the demands of the school, while at the same time being the arm for continuous, effective and constructive dialogue and continuous cooperation with teachers. Parents are a critical force for us, the Ministry of Education, since we need their contribution to the development of skills, opportunities and participation of their children both at home and at school. After all, they have been and are our allies, especially in the last year, which together we are struggling for the fullest possible educational process of our children during the health crisis. Parents and guardians' associations, although not involved in decision-making or the functioning of the school, can exert indirect and often fertile pressures, be the starting point for converging and positive approaches between parents and teachers and seek alliances with teachers to upgrade their children's learning process. For this important role, the state has arranged for the establishment and establishment of parents and guardians' associations, the establishment and operation of school councils, the appointment of representatives of parents and guardians' associations, associations, federations and confederations of parents and guardians. However, there are provisions on the establishment, establishment and functioning of the school board, the appointment of representatives of parents and guardians, associations, associations, federations and confederation of parents and guardians, and these associations are collective bodies, but are governed by the provisions of the Civil Code on clubs and collective bodies. The way in which their elections are held is therefore based on the statutes of the clubs and although these elections are provided for, it is not the Ministry's duty to indicate how the elections are to be held. In any case, when the clubs decide to hold elections, they must observe - as you have rightly pointed out - strict and appropriate measures to prevent the spread of COVID -19 and of what I have explained in detail. But also from the legislation, which I shall mention in my dentistry, Mr Colleague, in no case, and from any real or legal fact, it does not appear that the Ministry is aiming at the inertia of the parent movement. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Secretary, the association statute may define the procedures in their detail, but at the moment there is an empty one. Just because elections are not allowed - to remind you that on the basis of the Ministry's circular, more than nine people are not allowed to meet - how can the elections be held? What parent will take responsibility for going to the elections when he is in danger of being fined? For what? Because he went, with security measures, in an open space, to vote for the Parent and Guardian Council! So, here there's a political responsibility. Obviously, I am not counting on you who have just taken this role. But there is a political responsibility of the Minister. We cannot be in danger at the moment of being in the 'around hair' of breaking all this structure called parent and guardian clubs, the social capital called parent and guardian clubs. I will repeat that since May 2021, and after the members of the club presidencies stop being members of the clubs, as the statute provides that when it stops the child studying in high school, when it stops being in primary school, it stops the parent being a member of the parent and guardian association. And since two years have passed and we are going for the third of the last elections, we are reaching the point where this generation has been elected. They're going to high school, they're going to high school. We have a real problem. We need two things here: firstly, because even those who are now vacant are now, you need to make a decision that goes beyond their statutes to define their extension due to emergency measures and define them until the schools are reopened, that they continue and exist and that the councils are in place until the schools are reopened. And there must be an urgent framework for these elections, because otherwise this institution is falling apart. And it's not like it used to be. Once it collapses now, the new parents will never get back into the process. This may be convenient to some who want to impose their policies on education. But it will prove, in practice, who believes in the institution of the parent and guardian association by giving a way out of the deadlock. This commitment I ask of you today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u187	All right, thanks to Mr Arsenis. Here, Mrs. Makre, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u188	Thank you again, Mr President. Mr Colleague, as promised by you, in the secondary legislation which provides for the provisions on the establishment, establishment and functioning of the school board, the promotion of representatives of parents' and guardians' associations, associations, federations and confederations of parents and guardians and apply in summary form: Article 51 of Law 1566/1985: ‘Structuring and operation of primary and secondary education and other provisions’, Article 53 of Law 1566/1985: ‘Structuring and operation of primary and secondary education and other provisions’, as replaced by Article 2(1)(b) of Law 2621/1998, Article 51 and in particular paragraphs 1, 2, 3 and 4 of Law 4415/2016, entitled ‘Structuring of Greek-language education, intercultural education and other provisions’, Articles 1, 3, 4 and 5 of Protocol 662/1998 to the Secondary School Decision’. In particular, in accordance with Article 51 of Law 4415/2016, which replaced Article 53 of Law 1566/1985, the electoral procedures of each parent organisation must be completed within the following deadlines and in any event before the elections are held for the purpose of organising the higher grade. In detail, the elections take place every two years as follows: for parents' associations from 1 September to 31 December each year, for parents' associations from 1 to 31 March of the following single year, for parents' federations from 1 April to 31 May of the following year, for the maximum confederation from 1 June to 31 July of the following single year. I would like to point out again that the electoral procedures are being conducted with the absolute respect for the instructions of the Ministry of Health and the National Health Agency for the protection of the CIVID-19 coronary. You are also interested in this because I reply to a question you raised in dentistry - in accordance with the decision of the Ministry of Finance, Home Affairs and State, in paragraph 10, the use of the 'e: Press' platform for the maintenance of the proceedings of the collective bodies is mentioned. Any action before the vote may therefore be taken electronically. I close by saying and repeating that the way in which the elections are conducted is based on the statutes of the clubs, and even though the time has come for them, it is not up to the Ministry to indicate how it is to carry out them. Thank you for your interest in the issues of our Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Minister. And now we move to the thirteenth, with number 442/15-2-2021, a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "The special schools and their safe working conditions". Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, when you do not take any essential measures for the safe operation of schools a year now, that is to say, you do not take the necessary increased number of teachers, nor the necessary and necessary number of workers for the cleanliness of schools, in other words, when you do not do all that needs to be done and can be justly claimed by teachers, parents and students for more than a year, and all you have done as a government is to share - and I am talking about education - a mask, a squirrel to make an open school window in the dorm, then opening up and closing schools is, of course, the only refuge for you as a government, depending on whether you start or not of the pandemic. Of course, the consequences - and here I think we will all agree - are severe and painful, both educational and social, and psychological, especially for younger pupils, but also for older people. And if that is the case, Minister, once for the children of general schools, believe me, it applies ten times more for children with disabilities, for children of special schools. In this context of management, the government has decided to keep special schools open, but without at the same time ensuring those terms and conditions which guarantee the health and safety of those students who have, of course, increased needs, but also of teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Of course, Minister, we want the special schools openly, as we openly want the general schools, as we want them openly, and the universities, which your government has been insisting on keeping them closed for a year, with the necessary conditions that must and must be respected. That is why we ask you what measures you and your Government intend to take, so that, first of all, the workers and students of these schools will be vaccinated as a priority. Of course, this should have been the case, but from tomorrow at least the vaccination of workers in special schools and of those students who are facing serious, serious problems, so that their medical surveillance is continued, that there is continuous and uninterrupted epidemiological surveillance with massive tests, with traces, as is certainly the necessary medical care for the confirmed cases under the responsibility of the health structures which are close. After all, this means connecting the health system to education. There should also be an increase in the number of routes in order to reduce pupils. Because, you know, these students in special schools are usually moved by buses and cars in which strict disinfection is made and health protocols are observed. In addition, there must be staff recruitment. You know, it's not enough for the staff. And don't tell us again about the four and four and a half thousand, because we've heard it a hundred thousand times. It takes a lot more hires. If these were needed before, imagine now what it takes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u191	Mr. Delia, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u192	And of course, we are talking about the care that a responsible state must show to disabled students who cannot go to school and remain at home because of serious pathological problems. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u193	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. I, Mr Colleague, will be happy to answer your question, despite the fact that I think it was very strict, even unjust, tone you have used. Obviously you have a right to do so. I am not going to blame you, I am simply making a point, a point, so that the word will not be misunderstood. I am therefore pleased that you and all the citizens of this country agree that sensitivity and priority in special education and training are unnegotiable. Mr President, I will start my position by informing you that I will use my dentistry as well, so that I can fully answer the questions of my colleague. I therefore begin with the fact that the decision to ensure the continuity of the work of the special education and training units, both primary and secondary, is based on the fact that the presence of pupils and disabilities in education procedures is essential in order to acquire or maintain their skills and autonomy, their cognitive, social and emotional support, as well as on their physical and mental health, conditions that, in the case of this school population, the implementation of distance learning is difficult to reach. And if I interpret you correctly, I think you have no objection to that. In these school units, our Ministry, in close cooperation with the Ministry of Health, after consulting the National Authority for Vaccines, approved the inclusion in the programme of the current period of vaccination of teachers, special education staff, special assistant staff and students aged 16 and over, is understood by the consent of parents and guardians. Relevant circular was already sent to school units. The free COVID-19 platform for teachers "edu.testing.gov.gr" is also in operation from the beginning of January, while there are EGE stadiums which run free examinations at school units, both in teachers and students. With regard to the transfer of pupils from special education and training units, all necessary measures have been taken by the state to prevent the spread of COVID -19. In particular, it is recommended for the transport of pupils, on a proposal from the relevant training directorates, to increase the bus services carried by children with disabilities due to their difficulty in using a mask and to adopt new routes as a matter of priority by the competent services of the relevant regional units. In addition, all necessary measures shall be taken to avoid co-existence during the boarding and disembarkation of pupils. In addition, vehicles of each category used for the transport of pupils are disinfected daily before and after transport, followed by natural ventilation and space space between use. Vehicle drivers, teachers attendants and students are required to carry a protective mask. Finally, it is recommended that the student be placed in a predetermined position, which will not be changed, while it is proposed that students belonging to the same section or brothers sitting next to each other. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] For students serving by taxi in non-urban areas, for their transition to school, up to four persons may be moved by providing a relevant certificate from the head of the school. As regards recruitment in special education and training, in March 2020 the appointments of a thousand forty-six members of special educational staff and special assistants in special education and training units were carried out in the framework of notices 1 ESDP/2019 and 2EA/2019. We are very proud that the requirement of years for special education and treatment by qualified teachers has been made flesh and bones from our Government! For the new school year 2020-2021 and following the appointments I have given you, the Ministry, seeking to better and better meet the needs of the school population, has hired six thousand eight hundred nine alternates - members of special educational staff and special assistant staff. Unfortunately, Mr Colleagues, the final tables of the AACC included non-applicants' requests. That is why we are carefully considering how to cover these posts by experts who will provide specialized support to meet all needs, particularly in the field of specialized training and special assistant staff, for the provision of modern distance learning for the school year 2020-2021. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] Mr President, Mr Colleague, I am going to use the dentistry, and I apologise for having left time on the sensitive subject. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u195	Good, Minister. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u196	Madam Minister, I owe you an answer, of course, about the excessive tone of voice, as you have said, and about the unfair placement. First of all, the tuna is equal to the size of the problem that exists in the space and believe me is too big. As for the unjust placement of our own, what I want to say is that we do not transfer despite anger, I would say, a situation in which teachers and parents are also in special treatment structures. They feel - and rightly so - a fair wrath for government policy, as it has been developing over the past few years on the occasion of the pandemic. We will not, of course, question the number of recruitments and so on. But, Minister, it proves - and we will agree on this - that it is not enough. More recruitment is needed, more staff are needed, as I will soon prove with everything I say. The fact is, of course, that closing schools creates serious problems for all pupils - alas - educational deficits, inequality - let us not forget it - and psychological and social issues not just a few. This, of course, is much more true of disabled children in special schools, where the education system necessarily binds with the scientific system and the necessary interventions are about serious difficulties and divergences and any deprivation of these interventions, you know, can create drawbacks which are not reversed, that is, they can determine the fate of a whole child. But it is criminal, in front of a certain and clear need for special schools not to be taken for the safe operation of all those health measures, which have been formulated for a year by all those who have been next to children with disabilities and are naturally aware of their needs. How can we tell you? You have no right, you cannot risk the health and safety of children and workers. Of course, if we are to be fair, solutions to the existing explosive problems and dangerous problems, I will add that special treatment cannot under any circumstances be given by the guilty and on the basis of the existing structures and infrastructures that are currently in operation, however heroic teachers make available themselves to these structures. And they do, believe me. In addition, the tragic and unacceptable situation of the school facilities of special education is known, infrastructurals which operate where they can be imagined from old factory warehouses, where rodents are detected, up to the second or third floors of buildings. In Thessaloniki these buildings are known. We believe that today' s urgent and dramatic need for new special treatment structures to be opened up and run by new staff from mass recruitment. There is an urgent and dramatic need for all those private special education structures to be placed under the full control of and under the planning of your Ministry of Education, in order to meet today's increased needs for these sufferinged children. It is urgent, let us today, and dramatically, the need for all the necessary scientific interventions - therapies, physiotherapies, a host of such scientific interventions - to be made in schools so that parents do not have to run from morning to night with their children from there and there in various private centres. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] And of course, for the end we want to tell you that it is urgent and extremely dramatic that the need - it has also a humanitarian character - for all these actions and interventions from your Ministry to be taken to help a category of children, Mr Minister, who, since the beginning of the pandemic, have not been to school for a year, have not even been outside their home. I am talking about children who, apart from disability, have additional pathological problems. I think something should finally be done with these kids. At some point, the state must remember these children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u197	Good evening to you and me. Good week and good tripod! Mrs. Macrie, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u198	Good evening, Mr. President. Thank you. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I will not tell you again, Mr President, because I have responded to my prototype, but, as I have promised, I will give you an answer to the last question to which you have insisted on the possibility of modern distance learning for children with serious health problems. I note that, in addition to students and students and students or whole school units who are in temporary suspension or prohibition of operation as a measure for the treatment of CIVID -19, television is also provided to pupils and apprentices of school units, who cannot physically attend the training process, as they belong to increased risk groups, accompanied by a person who is suffering from a CVID -19 coronary disease, who are the children from a CVID -19 coronary, or who have been subjected to a molecular diagnostic examination for CVID -19 and for as long as the result remains until it is issued. For students in vulnerable groups, the measures taken are as follows. The provision of distance learning follow-up, recording, but not counting, if the following reasons are met: If the student himself or a person residing in his home is hospitalized by a coronary, with an essential presentation of a medical certificate, if the student who has been subjected to a molecular diagnostic examination for the coronary and remains in quarantine for as long as the result is expected, if the student belongs to an increased risk group, as defined by the EGE, with a medical certificate required by the physician or a doctor of the relevant specificity. Increased risk students groups are as follows: They are students receiving chemotherapy for malignancy or after homologous transplantation of blood cells or if less than six months have elapsed since completion, pupils following allergenic transplantation of blood cells, if fewer than 12 months have elapsed, students after a solid organ transplant, if fewer than twenty-four months have elapsed, students with sickle cell anaemia, students to severely congenital or acquired immunodeficiency, students with severe chronic kidney disease or renal failure, students with abdominal congenital heart disease, well-known myocardial heart disease, students with chronic severe lung disease, such as cystic fibrosis or respiratory insufficiency, students with severe and uncontrolled asthma, according to expert advice and finally, students with complex metabolic or neurological problems. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that our Ministry is always at the side of the children belonging to the vulnerable groups, but also of their families, working systematically, intensively and with sensitivity to the uninterrupted provision of the educational process, despite the adversity of the current conditions. From today's debate I also have your legitimate interest, as do ours, regardless of whether our starting points are different. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u199	Thank you very much, Mrs. Makri. We move on to the third debate under No 1636/353/11-11-20 questions and requests for documents by SYRIZA MP Phytiotidas - Progressive Alliance Mr.Ioannis Sarakiotis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Recording of the needs and the necessary electronic equipment to implement the modern distance learning of secondary school students in Central Greece". Mr. Sarakiotis, you have two minutes at your disposal for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this question for the recording of the needs for electronic media and their coverage, in order for teachers and students in Central Greece to participate in televised training, had submitted it with SYRIZA colleagues since November 11th last year. We have not received any response, and that is why it has been converted into a timely one. It was when the second lockdown was announced by the government and since Monday, 9 November, lifelong learning stopped and students throughout the country took part in the education process through modern distance education. The question, of course, remains timely, because in many areas of our country teleworking is continuing. You realize - and we all know - that for every child it is necessary to participate in this learning process to have the electronic media, tablet, computer. All experts report, although no one needs to be an expert to know, that in the absence of these electronic media, loss of hours and days of education has a negative impact on young students and creates two-speed students. For the implementation of this whole process, of course, it is necessary to prepare and coordinate the relevant bodies. For these reasons you are asking, given the fact that scientists worldwide and also in our country, since spring, have already predicted the second heavy wave in the autumn - forecasts which, unfortunately, were verified - what the actions of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs were to record and satisfy the needs for electronic equipment for students and teachers in the Region of Central Greece? What preparatory actions have you taken, Minister, since spring and then in cooperation with the supervised administrative education services, primary and secondary, in order to record and satisfy the needs of the pupils in the Region of Central Greece? What was the result of the actions and how were they covered? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr Sarakiotis. And it will be answered by the State Secretary for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Zetta Makri. Mrs. Macrie, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Arseni, about ten days ago I replied to a similar question from Mr Arseni, and there I clarified and clarified the roadmap that we followed in education and distance learning. I also described the successful ten-month implementation of modern telecommunications in primary and secondary schools. That is what I had already mentioned at the time, Mr Colleague, I will develop it in my dentext in the time that I shall have. The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Nikki Kerameos, and all of us on every occasion, have also said that I will tell you in my dentistry. I will now turn to the special case of Central Greece that specialises in your question and for which you are calling us in the House to give the explanations that are due. In the case of Central Greece, there was direct mobilisation by the administrative structures of the Regional Department of Central Greece to record and deal with all the issues arising from distance education. The percentage of pupils who had problems with their participation in this training process was approximately 2%. This percentage includes students enrolled or renewing their entry at the beginning of the school year, but do not regularly study for several reasons, such as adult students of PAF enrolled for the purpose of postponing, Roma students, etc. The main reasons for the problems were lack of equipment and problematic connectivity. To deal with this problem, the following actions were taken: The equipment that had come to school was exploited by donations. Additional donations have been made to serve the present situation. In cases of connectivity problems this has been dealt with on a case-by-case basis by the local authorities in cooperation with the education structures. Students were granted a wireless router and students were given the opportunity to come to safe areas with all sanitation measures, such as at Community offices, in order to participate in telematics. Since February 17, 2021, a project of the Operational Programme is under way: "Development of Human Resources, Education and Lifelong Learning" of the NSRP 2014-2020, aimed at reducing the student leak entitled: "Supporting the educational process through the provision of portable budget equipment 12.103.250 euros" and the beneficiary of our Ministry, namely the Technical Services Department. We have already conducted an electronic open international competition on the subject: "Procurement of portable electronic devices for distance education" concerning all primary and secondary schools in the territory. This competition, Mr. Colleague, is divided into six sections and as far as the department includes the school units of the regional primary and secondary departments of eastern Macedonia - Thrace, Central Greece and Thessaly is in the process of signing the contract for the implementation of the project. I would also like to point out that the distance education process is a titanium project that has been implemented effectively and literally by zero, as until beforehand the digitalisation of the Greek educational system was extremely low. The success of implementation - I hope you will agree, with me - is credited exclusively to the educational community, to the teachers, whom we warmly thank. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, too. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u204	Teachers don't know if they're so satisfied with what you said, Minister. Unfortunately, the reality disguises you, as I will also present to you in the Practical publications by various municipalities in Central Greece where the mayors or regional directorates acted in order to meet the needs that the Ministry did not cover. Donated tablet from the municipality of Amphiclia Olives. The mayor announced that he made the same recording and based on social and economic criteria will be given by the municipality to students. It states that after the mismanagement by the Ministry municipalities are called upon to bear additional burdens, such as distribution of tablets. There's another thanks to the primary school in Delphi and Doris for a tablet donation. Another company, in Evia this time, donates seventeen laptops to the mayor of Dirfion Messapion. In the absence of the state and the Ministry, the people of local government were forced to fill this unpaid void. I will not really comment on the tablets because we have been listening for months. When are they coming after all? I hope it doesn't become as serial as the masks did. You tell me, you made four or five months to bring masks to the students. The tablets will be even harder, I imagine. By the end of the pandemic, I hope you have succeeded in obtaining the tablets. From there on, I have asked you to submit the documents you sent to the regional directorates and direct them to how this is to be done. When did you first send them? When did the answers come? Because as far as I know, at least in communication with directors, many schools have not received a document to record the needs of their students. I'm looking forward to it. I'm waiting for the documents to be lodged. I really did not expect that I would hear in answer that the needs of the students are met for such a key issue by donations. The state where they were all these months? You have had eight months actually to prepare. In the end, what did you do? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, too. Mrs. Macrie, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. I think you heard that I, too, mentioned in my protology about donations. I could have spent a lot of time telling you about the very disappointing numbers that we received the technology of the school units. As far as the tablets are concerned, I am sure you are aware that today, as Mr Skokakis said, the process is progressing very satisfactorily. I would like to stress once again that the living teaching of our children by teachers is irreplaceable. However, during the global pandemic crisis, we were called upon as a Ministry to ensure all the necessary tools to strengthen and shield the institutional framework and to transfer the educational process to the Internet in a few 24 hours' time. I will say again that the educational community has shown rapid reflexes and adaptability. I will commend them once again because they have made an excessive effort by having scientific knowledge, giving solutions and always promoting the interests of children. In the last three months, the application of tele-instrumentation has been generalized to all levels of education and its successful implementation is reflected in the following impressive figures: At the same time, about 40 thousand digital classes have operated at the same time, while over two hundred thousand classes have been successfully implemented with a total of more than four million student participations and an average of fifty-two minutes per lesson. The above-mentioned dynamics prompted the extremely significant upgrading and strengthening of public digital infrastructure, including the full-scale school network. We've received it in a sad state. That is why the political leadership of the Ministry of Education has taken care to ensure funding from the Public Investment Programme for 2020-2021 with a 30% budget increase compared to the previous years and proceeded to upgrade individual procedures and closer cooperation with the EDN for the continuous, daily upgrading and immunisation of public systems. The supply of school equipment with ninety-three thousand six hundred and forty-one portable devices that schools can lend on the basis of social and economic criteria was also launched by the Ministry. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs also carried out additional training activities for teachers at all levels and specialties. I won't insist that I don't take any more time. We also started to carry out an emblematic project on rapid training in distance learning for all the teachers of all levels and specialties. Approximately sixty thousand teachers with a budget of 2 million through the ESRB. At this difficult juncture we will continue to fight despite adversities and ensure that children are entitled to education. At a time of multiple challenges of globalised knowledge and an extremely competitive environment and need to develop new skills and extroverty, we will take initiatives that find the right ground in society. We also take responsibility for the implementation of such initiatives in order to upgrade the modern school and equip our children with facilities and skills. And of course the documents you have requested will be submitted, as I have to say, to the Minutes of Parliament and to our colleagues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, too. Have a good day to both of you. The second question under number 2433/7-12-2020 will be discussed with the question of the cycle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement of Change Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Unjust and unequal treatment of the affected in Crete'. Mr. Kegeroglu, good evening and good week. You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u208	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I take advantage of your late answer not because it was not on time, but because developments really show that there are too many gaps in dealing with the problems caused by the disasters at the end of October with the beginning of November in Crete. In particular, I must tell you that while all the actors in Crete and we as a Change Movement with two amendments we have tabled here, we have called for the restoration process to be incorporated into Laws 4728/2020 and 4737/20, which applied to the disasters by the 'January', the Government has not accepted it, with the result that today, over and above EUR 600 on the one-off first payment, nothing else has been paid to the citizens. In particular, the compensation for households has not been paid, the procedure for businesses has not been completed, there have not been a number of compensation for agricultural production, where there are serious problems with regard to the exceptions or not. We were therefore invited by all the MPs a few days ago by the mayor of Hersonissos and informed us of the problems he is facing, asking us to intervene in the government, in order to speed up the procedures and facilitate the situation experienced by the citizens, which is also a double problem, namely from the pandemic, in the tourist areas, in rural areas, in the countryside, because there are many municipalities throughout Crete, but in particular in Hersonissos, which, as the Municipality of Hersonissos informed us, is tragic. Double catastrophe. What I would like to see from you is whether the area that has been destroyed, which has been damaged during the November part-session, has been delimited and how far, as far as your ministry is concerned, the procedure for setting up the committee, by decision of the Secretary-General, as foreseen, has been developed to monitor the procedure for recording damages to undertakings and paying compensation. The rest in my dentistry, so we don't have time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will answer. Mr. Undersecretary, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u210	Thank you, Mr President. Thank the honourable Member, Mr Kegeroglu. It gives us the opportunity to clarify a number of critical issues for those affected. I would like to say that, firstly, we need to clarify that under the existing institutional framework the Ministry of Finance is responsible for the compensation of businesses. In other words, we are talking about subsidies, damages, equipment, raw materials, goods, lorries, cars, etc., especially when they come from natural disasters pursuant to Article 36 of Law 2457/1997, and we need, as we know, a joint ministerial decision by the Ministers for Finance, Development and Investment, Infrastructure and Transport. In adopting this decision, we know that there are some conditions. The first is the delimitation, as Mr Kegeroglu said, of the Ministers for Economic Affairs, Development and Investment, Interior, Infrastructure and Transport, etc. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council whether he is prepared to give us an answer to this question. Secondly, we have a record of these companies' losses from the relevant region. To date, however, this decision has not been adopted, the KYA, which demarcates the areas and I refer to the Region of Crete for some of the moments that occurred on 20 and 22 October 2020, as well as between 6 and 10 November 2020 from the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport. Also, with regard to Mr Kegeroglou's question on the advance payment of compensation to the affected 5000 euros per home and the 8,000 euros per business, it is responsible for restoring the impact of natural disasters on Greece of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport by decision of which each beneficiary is designated and for which the amount of the allowance is approved. In order to provide these advances, it is evident that prior adoption of the decision is required. As the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport informed us, the Department of Restoration of Natural Disaster Effects cannot take these actions for natural disasters, because - and here is the essential - all those necessary data from the Region of Crete have not been sent to it so far. You realise that this is a crucial element, which we must have soon. In particular, it has not been provided with data concerning affected dwellings by both theories and has not been provided with data on the affected business buildings located in the Regional Units of Chania, Rethymno, Lassithi, which have been affected since the beginning of October 2020, as well as on the affected business buildings located in the Regional Units of Rethymno, Lassithi, which have been affected in November 2020. When these necessary data relating to the affected areas come, you understand that the adoption of the Agency for demarcation will immediately proceed, which is necessary in order to pay the compensation to the affected persons, who are waiting for them. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, Mr President. The Ministry of Infrastructure, which is expedient for demarcation, informed through the Minister of State that he is unable to demarcate, lacking data, and obviously the necessary steps have not been taken to collect. I have now tabled a timely question to the Ministry of Infrastructure, which is indeed the speedy and responsible for this process, to ask the Minister and to discuss this week what is going on, what is going on and what is going on and is not going to be able to issue the demarcation decision. We believe it is a special issue, another issue is the decision to demarcate and another issue is the data on business houses and property and infrastructure in order to provide advances. It's a second part. Of course, the Ministry of Finance is involved in business. We therefore want the Ministry of Finance to speed up the process. How can it be speeded up, however, when it did not accept our amendment to join the provisions of the two laws that were incorporated into the Thessaly process and at least in time did it go better than other cases? Of course there have also been major problems there, and there have been red tape, but they have been overrun. I therefore have a letter from the Association of Mayors of Crete, which I will present, from 16 February to the Prime Minister, which, after mentioning the problem - we know it, I do not mention it again - asks the Prime Minister for reasons of equality and equal treatment to apply to our own regions in Crete as well as the measures adopted by Law 4728/2020 and Law 4737/2020 to deal with damages from Janus theory. The second issue he raises is the short and proper restoration of public infrastructure, roads, bridges, etc. and proposes that there be cooperation between the Region of Crete and the OAS, the Development Agency of Crete in relation to the studies and the implementation of the projects. Why do I now refer to you as the Minister of Finance? Because in the OECD the only shareholder is the Ministry of Finance, so your intervention is needed. Next requesting, thirdly, is by decision of the Secretary-General for Economic Policy of the Ministry of Finance: To proceed with the establishment, establishment and appointment of members of a working group or working parties to monitor and coordinate grants to enterprises for damages. To commit the necessary resources from the Public Investment Programme, today PSUR - it is your Ministry responsible - in order to carry out the rehabilitation programme without delay. They need money. Studies are needed, the body that will do them, the body that will implement them, but also the money. In order not to get more tired, I will say by closing that I think the process is unfortunately going too late. It's a rural process. The citizens, the businesses, the farmers who have suffered the damage do not see themselves being compensated on time, so that the problem they have from the pandemic is added and this is a very difficult day to come. I would therefore like you, from the Ministry of Finance, to do everything possible to make this process progress. I am glad to see - I do not know the content - that you have tabled a bill on the process of recording and restoring damage to businesses. It's something he needed. I would say that this is also a vindication we have told you'put Crete in the 'Janue' process. But it didn't happen, and now we're in trouble. Tell us if you have anything new on this. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, too. Mr. Undersecretary, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u214	I am particularly grateful to Mr Kegeroglu for the points he has made, and I will try to give him some clarification on the basis of which he will see that the Ministry is directly, efficiently and particularly for all the affected. As you know, all this lately has literally been entrusted with issues that it is dealing with very effectively. Regarding the labelling of Mr Kegeroglou on whether arrangements are to be made in line with those of the 'January', I would like to say that this will be decided just after the demarcation decision, where it will be assessed exactly what the extent of disasters is. I would also like to assure him that the working group to which he referred has already been set up and operated since 21 December 2020, that is to say, that the group on coordination and monitoring for the allocation of the affected areas. Mr President, we also deserve to restrain what has been done so far, because we have taken very important steps on issues relating to our competence, namely the Ministry of Finance, because we have made critical improvements to the institutional framework so as to simplify and speed up the process of granting the affected enterprises under Article 36 of Law 2459/1997. What have we done, Mr President, in particular? The framework has already been amended and the committees of the regions which assess and record the damage to companies affected by natural disasters and with members of permanent and private law of indefinite duration of civil and public services and members of the Technical Chamber of Greece, the Chamber of Economics and the Hellenic Chamber of Geographical Chamber of Commerce. In cases where we have significant and extensive damages from natural disasters, the staff of the regions involved and the committees know that it is not enough to record damage in good time. Is that why we're doing this? The regulation we have passed extends the possibility of taking part with members of chambers, which, through their expertise, contribute to a faster and more comprehensive record and estimate of damages and thus to a more rapid payment of the compensation in question. Secondly, we have amended the Minister of Finance's decision setting out the procedures for granting the compensation so that in exceptional cases there is significant and extensive damage, both in number of firms affected and in size of the disaster, an advance may be made against the total amount of the subsidy. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to say that it is now necessary to produce a certificate of first instance for non-bankruptcy issued in the last three months, instead of the one month that was the case. We are also making it easier for the affected, and we are speeding up the procedures to meet them as soon as possible. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, too. Let's go to the next question with the same protagonists. Will the second question be debated under number 410/9-2-2021 in the first cycle of the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Finance, on "Is there any plans for the development of the National Defence Industry? Why are Greek Defence Systems (NS) denounced?” Mr. Kegeroglu, you have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u216	I thank you for the previous answer, Mr Secretary, but I must tell you that unfortunately, although these actions have been taken, the delay is a long one. I would therefore ask you to take a closer look at the matter, and of course what they are asking for is extra tax measures to do with their help. I now come to the question concerning the Greek Defence Systems, the company concerning the weapons and ammunition of our country. It's been a long test in the past government period. Unfortunately, the resolution plan that the Greek Government had achieved was abandoned, and it was indeed the responsibility of Mrs Gennamas, and we know very well that intensive, systematic negotiations were needed with the European Union in order to be accepted. The abandonment of this project, but then the policy that did not address the problems, led the company to a very difficult situation and to liquidity and to issues relating to the issue itself, after reducing orders, reduced contracts, problems which are not solved and which lead to a loss of customers and objects. There is an employee's departure from this situation. And, of course, there has not yet been a ratification of a collective contract of employment and no issues such as the allowance for unhealthy work have been dealt with, on the contrary, in the ODA on this issue. There are no conditions for this public company to recover. First of all, there has been no plan to deal with the problems and the development of the company. Workers fear that this whole situation is on the verge of the company, since it is still deceiving, leading to liquidation, which is likely to make use of its high-value land. However, this means losing a national institutional tool for Greece in relation to growth and in relation to strengthening the country's defence capacity. So what we are asking is to see whether these problems will be addressed for NSAs immediately and whether there will be cooperation with the Ministry of Defence, so that, in the first phase, programmes will be awarded by the Hellenic Armed Forces which will give the company the possibility of object and recovery. I shall refer to a number of others. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u218	Thank you, Mr President. I thank Mr Kegeroglu for giving us the opportunity to clarify, on the one hand, the neural importance we know that they have the Hellenic Defence Systems for the defence and defence industry in the country and, at the same time, to explain what has been done so far so far so that this company can best get out of the crisis. You should know - and we all know, Mr President - that the government and the new administration of the company have received a company in a state of economic suffocation and, above all, a non-transparent operation. What did the Treasury do? He immediately appointed an internal auditor chosen by the internal auditors register of the Greek State. This verifier has already found this 2017 and that of the Ministry of Finance Management Control, which was handed over to the new administration in February 2020, refers to a series of irregularities regarding the assignment of maintenance and recruitment services for the period 2015-2019. You realise that these are the pathogens of the past that are visible, as they are increasing the outstanding public and bank debts that this company must serve, while the own funds remain negative. Following on from all these findings of the internal auditor, but also the commitment to good administration and transparency, what happened? An international tender was opened for an audit which was entrusted to one of the most reliable, international, global audit firms with the aim of fully undocumenting the weaknesses of the past. The new administration has also launched for the first time open electronic tender procedures for all important services and supplies such as those concerning industrial cooperation, security, cleanliness, workers' transport, personal protection, etc. And it is very important to note that the Greek State, which is the main shareholder of the company, has proved in practice that it supports it by paying it - and here is the important - large sums to increase the share capital. I am referring to more important. It is known that cumulatively, the state has set from 16 October 2015 to 29 September 2020 an increase in share capital amounting to – mark it - to 832 million euros. It's a huge sum. In particular at this juncture, taking into account that this company had a sales turnover of only EUR 30 million in 2019 and EUR 13 million in 2018. We are therefore talking about a huge amount that has so far been allocated to this company. And it is the Greek Government's proof of this. I am also taking into account the effort made by the administration. In 2020 he added the public additional EUR 14 million. In other words, it has put about as much of the costs of the company's administration, which amount to almost EUR 18 million. Almost all the costs of the management of the company have been borne by the state. In addition to this, Mr President, in 2020 the Ministry of Finance paid an additional 19 million for guarantees granted by the HSF loans. So what do we see? That the government is practically next to this company, it is ready to support through every means, especially the neural Greek Defence Industry, which we need, because as we know well, especially during this period, our country is forced to have defence spending and especially a strong defence industry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the fact that 832 million has been spent since 2015, that around 35 million are still in existence, and that the situation is not only stabilised, but is deteriorating, means there is something important missing. The lack of NCAs is the recovery and resolution plan, the business plan that will bring new jobs at the same time as changing the operating mode of NCAs. I therefore consider it unacceptable that we should be in your 20th month of governance and that a management plan for the recovery of NSAs has not been drawn up, that there has not been funding not only in relation to the immediate needs, but that there have also been no new contracts for necessary armaments programmes, that there has been no attempt to restore the name of NSAs to the international market. Because it is a fact, Minister, that the NSAs have been denounced. Unfortunately, it was a disastrous term of office for those people who had the administration and were not alone, obviously there was a government all this time. But as you continue in twenty months' time, you will soon not be able to have an alibi in the previous bad period, you will be co-responsible, you will be fully co-responsible from one point to another and then exclusively responsible. That's why I'm telling you it's been twenty months. Look at the solution to immediate problems, as was partly the case with ODA. What does that mean? To leave the job insecurity, collective bargaining to be ratified. There has been an administrative agreement - workers. They took a step. Why doesn't the Treasury approve? Resolve the issue of the benefit of dangerous and unhealthy people, as resolved - it is not entirely right to do so - in the ODA. It became a towel, but it took one step. Do it to S.H.I.E.L.D. See how he takes on new jobs. Moreover, as we have said during the Rafale Convention, Greece has the possibility, on the basis of the international conventions it now makes for the new armaments programs, to integrate the Greek Defence Industry and private and state-owned in partnerships in sub-manufacturing work. Especially the NSAs, taking out ammunition and direct-energy weapons, will have to see what they're doing. There's a conversation about the national weapon. You know very well that the G3 has been our national weapon for decades. It was built and constructed in the facilities in Ayios and at a very economic cost. At this point in time, the only one not involved in the negotiations is the NCAs. I said this as an example because you really need to see how you will supply the company with new contracts at the same time. And after our pressure, they agreed to proceed with a contract with the Ministry of National Defence regarding the Navy, but it's not enough. More things are needed, but not scorpions as bricks and horns unscathed. It needs a plan, and there's no excuse for that, there's no plan. Okay, finish the check, it's slower than the management investigation process, but it doesn't mean that until there's a management investigation, we won't do what we need to do for the NSAs to recover. So, for the time being, to see with another eye the NSAs and those which, as intended, you say, will be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u221	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Again, I thank Mr Kegeroglou for the opportunity to tell us exactly what this government has done all this time for this particularly sensitive issue of the Greek Defence Industry with design and priorities and effective implementation. I would first like to say that, as I have explained before, the company is currently being strengthened in cash by the state. Why are we doing this? In order to be able to cover operating costs and to cover payroll costs - the sensitivity of all of us for workers - and there are increased liquidity needs of the company and remain. Furthermore, Mr Kegeroglu, I would like to assure you, that we are interested and will receive the allowance for unhealthy work immediately after the pandemic. So that's a reassurance for the workers, too. However, let us now see what plans we have, as the administration tells us more, to see what important positive actions have been taken. For the first time in years the company won a competition abroad - in particular the Ministry of Defence of Egypt - a contract for the supply of ammunition. Secondly, it has activated contracts that had not been implemented by previous administrations, such as the Ministry of Defence of Tunisia for the supply of ammunition, as well as contracts with the Ministry of National Defence for the supply of anti-missile helmets and night-minding instruments. Thirdly, Mr Kegeroglu, the assignment of important projects by the Ministry of National Defence, as has been repeatedly announced by the Government and has been discussed in detail and specialised at staff level. Also, as expected sales result in the business plan of the Hellenic Defence Systems for the next four years, the award of new contracts, such as the National Treasury Construction Program, the production of ammunition for exercises in the Hellenic Navy, the extension of the "Mini" and their ammunition program, as well as discussions have been made on the reconstructing of a 30 millimetre line and the production of a hundred or twenty millimetres. Furthermore, the possibility of co-production of unmanned flying vehicles for the needs of the Greek Army is being explored. Finally, the management of the company has drawn up an operational plan for 2020-2024, according to which it will be able to produce available both from its production activity and from sales of fixed assets, i.e. real estate. As you can see, the company gradually, but consistently, with the government's support, draws up a different policy. It leaves behind the difficult past with what we have identified, so that, with its concrete actions, it can deal with the test of real soundness that will be when it comes to no longer having to rely on the liquidity injections of the Greek public. I believe I have shown you, Mr Kegeroglu, that important, systematic, effective interventions and actions are being made on the part of the government to support this operation. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a nice day, I wish. Mr. Kegeroglu will remain. We continue with the fourteenth, with No. 440/15-2-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'When will you finally convene the Social Security Council (SKA) for an opinion on the conclusion on the inclusion of health workers in heavy and unhealthy occupations submitted by December?' Mr. Kegerolwa, you know the process. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are well aware that the Change Movement has been, perhaps, the first political body that has since the beginning of the pandemic not only supported the need to regenerate the National Health System, but also the rewarding of the people who operate it with many years of shortages, but especially now in the difficult period of dealing with the pandemic and their integration into the list of heavy and unhealthy professions, as provided for by Law 3863/2010. Workers, therefore, in the health system, in the EAW, in all health and welfare units, are entitled to this inclusion and because they are provided for by law, but also because of the nature of the work they do. So because we have all applauded them from the balconies and from here, from the Stepping of the House, it is time to do what we have to do. We have tabled twelve times the amendment, which you rejected as government, invoking the conclusion of the committee. Well, the committee was set up by the previous political leadership at our request and that is a reality. There is now the conclusion of the committee, which I shall be tabling in the Minutes of the House. There is its proposal, which incorporates a series of workers, doctors, nurses, workers in paramedicals, laboratories, throughout the health system, in general the public health system. This proposal needs to be passed by the Social Security Council. The Social Security Council was reconstituted in December - if I am not wrong, on 14 December - and while it met in Genoa, they did not discuss the matter. And the question is clear: When will the Committee on Social Security be able to incorporate into the table the heavy and unhealthy people of the national system, in particular, in order to take this step that it needs, once you have rejected their inclusion in the table by means of the legislative approach? Because if they had joined the legislative path, the table would have already been completed and it did not have to. But now there is the conclusion. We're waiting for your answer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u225	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Panagiotis Tsakloglou, will answer. Mr. Chacloglu, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, thank you very much for your question. It is true that the issue of the integration of health workers into the heavy and unhealthy professions is almost time-consuming, I would venture to say a request. In fact, several topical and written questions have been answered by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, and by me too, in the past. I believe, however, that the constant reintroduction of this issue does not change and should not change the basic lines on which any decision to include any professional group in the heavy and unhealthy professions should be taken. The National Health System is still being tested today by the pandemic. The staff who are at the forefront of its response continue to face up to this great challenge. These people do not just owe a thank you, but we must practically show our support. In addition to strengthening the infrastructure and human resources of the ESS, the state is bent, as it owes, above all the real problems of workers, showing that not only does it ignore the existing challenges, but it also has the look on the next day. The Committee on the Crisis of Serious and Unhealthy Professionals was set up in May 2020 to examine the inclusion of branches and professions in heavy and unhealthy professions. The Committee was consulted on the subject of work of specialists or workplaces in the heavy and unhealthy professions on the basis of the requests submitted and pending to the relevant departments of the Ministry. The committee's findings have been submitted to the Ministry's services, which are being processed, but continue to collect requests for accession to the regime of heavy and unhealthy professions. But as I have already said from this Step, heavy and unhealthy should not become a political game in anyone's hands. Integration into them should take into account the objective of occupational risk, but also the various consequences that may exist in any field, and in any case cannot be interpreted broadly. The question of heavy and unhealthy is what is called "excellent law" and cannot discriminate between the private and public sectors. Uniform rules are therefore needed for similar working conditions in which a similar type of occupational risk may arise. The second is that pandemic is an emergency. However, heavy and unhealthy is a measure of a lasting nature that clearly goes beyond the horizon of the current state of the country, but also beyond the whole planet. We must make it clear that heavy and unhealthy professions guarantee early retirement because of physical stress from the exercise of a profession and concern the occupational risks of a permanent nature. In other words, they are not determined by exceptional circumstances. Thirdly, we must always take into account the financial constraints of the country, but also the pressure that public finances receive from the pandemic. The Ministry of Labour is still considering this aspect as part of the whole issue together with the relevant ministries, i.e. the Ministry of Finance and the Ministry of Health. Finally, careful consideration and consideration of the issue of integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions is needed and yet another reason, which is related to the service needs, staff competence and the organization of the ERC. Careful treatment is necessary in order not to disturb all of this from the possibility of early retirement, especially in the difficult period that we are experiencing. Therefore, targeted and scientifically documented solutions are needed rather than fragmentary approaches to this issue. The findings submitted to the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs are of an advisory nature and the Government takes serious account of all the proposals put forward. However, as a whole, we need to move on and look at all the dimensions of the problem. On the subject of occupational disease, which you also referred to in your question, I will answer my second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Minister. Only please, if you speak from your position, wear the mask. I didn't mean to interrupt you. I know, I have the same problem with the blurred glasses. Mr. Kegeroglu has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr President. I begin with the issue of occupational disease, which is the second part of the question, of COVID -19. In fact, the deaths caused by workers from the National Health System at work, or because of this, are the main reason why we should consider its establishment and its inclusion in the list of occupational diseases. In fact, it is a matter which has not existed for legislation in the past few years. In accordance with the institutional procedure provided for, this examination should be immediately carried out and included in the table. It is for us that non-treatment is an important reason to have been examined yesterday. In any case, we are waiting for your answer. Because you've made a glimpse of political manipulation, I'd like to tell you away from us this. On the basis of Law 3863 and Law 3865, the procedure for setting up the list of heavy and unhealthy people is laid down completely, transparently and institutionally, as is said. And indeed immediately after the vote on No.3863, the private sector procedure went on, since it was then considered different and responsibilities of the Ministry of Labour. On December 2, 2011, very briefly in relation to the resolution of No.3863/2010, the painting of heavy and unhealthy with the signature of George Koutrumani became a law of the state. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The responsibility for integrating heavy and unhealthy people into the public sector, given that the insurance, pensions and pensions were in the State's General Accounting Office, was the responsibility of the Ministry of Finance, so that this procedure has never been drawn up and never been promoted. Obviously, you too are aware that the great burden of the Ministry of Finance was the implementation of the adaptation programmes and they had gone back to society, such as this issue, but which were not immediately the issues of the implementation programmes, although the number3863 and the reconstructing of the unhealthy tables was projected by the first memorandum. So while the state, the political manipulations you said, the Treasury did not do its job for several reasons - I gave the most good explanation now, I relieved you of why he did not do his job as a government, but I think that this is an explanation - and we let it not happen and say that it is because of the pandemic that this need has emerged now! We have proposed it in legislation because there are specific specialities and undeniable scientific ones. They are the equivalents of the private sector! So it's not political to handle, it's institutional. He's absolutely institutional! We say: 'What applies to the private is also to the public'. We did not say: 'Whoever is my friend to put him.' So what you said about political manipulations is not to us! We now go to the institutional process, as the Ministry chose to do it, not to match the private sector, which had already done the process, but from the outset. So Mr Brutsis - three or four questions - I do not remember how much I have submitted to him - set up the committee. The commission worked six, seven months? - She took off her findings. Here it is, we said it would stay in the Minutes as a second one. So what does the committee say? "Oh, it's not so institutional. We need to look at other cases.' The conclusion reached by the committee appointed by the Ministry is the absolute institutional one. If you want to add more, tell us. If you have to remove some, of course. If there is a contradiction, too, with the private sector, let us see it. This will be considered by the services, in line with what is in force in the private sector and with the proposal. And if there's anything else that the committee didn't see or rejected, that's what they need to see. It meets, reassessssssssssssssss the Social Security Council, with Mr Brutsis. After pressure? After pressure! But he did! And the simple question to you is to announce to us a date that will be considered by the CSCE and instead, I do not understand, did you argue that the specialities already in the private sector should not come into the heavy and unhealthy ones? Please, Mr. Tsakloglu, just make it clear in simple words, Greek, that it takes the Ministry two months - one, one and a half? - examine the conclusion of the committee and the way in which it is incorporated into the table and then the meeting of the SCA or the SCA will see them more ahead and the services will see them all together. Clear! However, not here are the evasive or political evasions or the others you have said! I appreciate you very much, but I want clear words. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, too. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, I would also like to start with the issue of occupational disease. In this respect, in accordance with the provisions of the Code of Health and Safety of Workers, the SARS COV-2 Krone constitutes a typical occupational risk in the case of workers in activities directly exposed to this biological agent. There is therefore a need for action by the employer, who also has sole responsibility for taking specific protective measures. In addition, with the current legislative framework, namely the Presidential Decree 102/2020, coronary viruses are included in the list of risks due to exposure to biological agents at work and are therefore recognised as risk factors for the health and safety of workers. At the same time, the disease caused by the SARS virus, i.e. the coronary virus - and I mean the coronary category - has been listed in the national list of occupational diseases with the Presidential Decree 41/2012. Therefore, following several European countries that have already registered the infection of COVID -19 as an occupational disease, the Ministry considers that this coronary may be recognised as a risk factor for the health of workers, in order to consider the death of COVID -19 as a occupational disease, but always under specific conditions, which are clearly related to professional activity, such as the relationship to the professional area of the patient and not to its wider social activity. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that the government honours the workers of the National Health System and consistently and responsibly defines its policy. We do not just want to thank these people, but we want to highlight the work they offer in society, improve their working conditions and upgrade the ESS as a whole in order to provide better health services to the citizens of this state continuously. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr Chacloglu. Mr. Kegeroglu is leaving. Have a good time! Mr. Chacloglu lives. And we go to the next question, in the first under number 416/12-2-2021, a topical question by the second question by the MP of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Vardakis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Perhaps at last for the unemployed". Mr. Bardakis, good evening, good week! You have the floor for two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u232	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, since we are the first time in the face to face, I would like to say that the news must not be held by teleconferencing. First of all, I really want to wish you success in your difficult task. At the same time, I would like to wish you would stop or not follow the previous policies that, instead of solving, caused problems for workers. Minister, these are topical questions and simple questions, which if you had accepted the previous period, perhaps many workers today were not really in poverty, poverty and impoverishment. You have, unfortunately, made the same mistake, despite the fact that, as the previous colleague has said, I, too, fully appreciate you reading a text - and I am telling you that from experience, we may have done so at one time - that your partners may have written you. But such texts, Mr Minister, if the problems are not really studied and what we are asking me, believe me, do not solve any problems. I now come to the first question I have put to you. On this issue we tabled an amendment and a question. You should have accepted our amendment. Because you have given a solution, but you have given a medium and wrong solution. Instead of unemployment benefit to food tourism, you gave just the day before yesterday - and I think it had not yet been legislated - an exceptional allowance. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] This exceptional allowance, Minister, goes beyond the fact that it does not solve the issue, creates problems. For example, it is not added to the retirement time. Really, what are you going to do tomorrow? If I'm not mistaken, on February 28, this special allowance expires. So what are you gonna do after a week for these people? I should like to inform you that a letter has already been sent to the Prime Minister from the Food - Tourism Federation and some hotel staff unions, if I am not mistaken. I want you to listen very carefully, Minister, to the two questions I'm going to ask. As far as tour guides are concerned, Minister, these people survived in 2020 with 1,800 euros. So, 1,800 euros for 12, we're talking about 150 euros a month! Tell me, Minister, which one of us, I'm not telling from the outside world, can he look down at these people? How will they survive the next period of 1,800 euros when they are already in unemployment seventeen months? We must find a solution now, Minister. I have learned to speak simply and understandably, because our alas if we talk in economic terms, and they do not understand what we are talking about. A solution must be found, Minister. Special purpose allowance must be granted now. And as regards the next period, let's hope, Minister, that in March some seasonal jobs or tourism will be opened. So now give a special purpose allowance for tour guides or enter the unemployment fund without a cover or even if you want, give fifty badges for 2020. This concerns the following question. And I come to the last question. You know, Minister, that all young people, young people who are entitled to this year's unemployment fund need eighty signals. This concerns young people, the new employers. You guys haven't taken care of it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is repeatedly ringing at the end of the bell.]] I beg your pardon, Mr President, keep the time from my dentistry, but it is very serious and it concerns thousands of people who are currently unable to survive.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u233	I understand that, Mr. Vardakis. You're talking about workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u234	Minister, do you know a lot of people who in 2020 filled eighty brands? So all these people are staying, and they've already been left outside the unemployment fund. So now the eighty meanings must be fifty. Minister, this is about - and I am closing down with this - three simple questions. Tourists, special-purpose allowances or non-necked unemployment fund or, if you like, at least fifty brands for 2020 in exceptional circumstances, we do not say it goes through. And hopefully they'll come for better years. In addition, a reduction of eighty in fifty trademarks for the young subsidised. And another serious issue, Minister, is that many businesses, because they suspended workers in November, are not regarded as seasonal. And don't tell me now that's out of question. A man of your own scientific training should not tell me that. It's really out of question, but take note of it. These businesses, therefore, because they are not considered to be seasonal, their employees do not enter the Unemployment Fund. Tell me what sense that makes! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. The three questions, Mr Minister - and I would like you to hear that - were a personal commitment by the Prime Minister himself and by the Step of the House, but also by the last interview he gave to Antenna, if I am not mistaken, by Mr Hatzinikolaou. He was specifically asked about the tour guides, especially the new tour operators, and said in particular Mr Mitsotakis: "It will not remain uncovered, we will not leave anyone unprotected. We will resolve all three issues." On these three issues committed by the Prime Minister of the country, I want you to give me a solution, Minister. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u235	Be well, Mr. Vardakis. And while on parole, Minister, they're already working! The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Here, Mr Tsakloglu, you have three minutes at your disposal. However, the questions were many and I will gladly give you as much time as you want. It's a serious matter, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u236	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'm a State Secretary, I'm not a Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u237	I wish you'd become Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u238	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Vardakis, I listened carefully and thank you very much for your good words, your wishes and your question. In fact, your question is related to an extremely vulnerable social group, that of the unemployed. The suspension of the economic activity imposed by the pandemic has already provoked and will continue to cause a further period of severe turbulence on the labour market. That is why the government is trying every day to absorb as many vibrations as possible through targeted actions and initiatives. The situation is not easy and we all know it very well. Greece had already had high unemployment before the health crisis. Nevertheless, our country has managed to respond to the challenges, and even according to comparative studies by EUROSTAT between the countries of the European Union in January - October, which we have comparable data, Greece has had the second lowest rise in unemployment among all the countries of the European Union. Our unemployment is very high, but we managed to keep it where it was. With regard to the payment of unemployment benefit to beneficiaries of specific categories mentioned in your question who have actually been particularly affected by the pandemic, many types of intervention have been planned and implemented. For example, according to the official OAED data from the beginning of the pandemic, more than EUR 1.6 billion has been paid to allowances, benefits and aids to seven hundred thousand unemployed and fifty-two thousand working mothers. The two-month extension of unemployment benefits for about three hundred thousand unemployed, the two cycles of financial assistance for two hundred and fifty thousand long-term unemployed and the monthly compensation for twenty thousand seasonal workers in tourism and food production provided the necessary safety net for our most needy citizens. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would also like to remind you that the new recruitment subsidy programme launched in October for 100 000 jobs which provides for the full grant of insurance contributions remains active and will remain active until the 100 000 new jobs are exhausted. In relation to your first question about the unemployment allowance for the long-term unemployed, but also about the unemployment benefit for the self-employed and regardless of the employees of the EPC, the former OSCE and the former EFF, legislation has already been introduced to extend those grants which expired or will expire in the first two months of 2021. It's what you asked me before. With regard to the second question, in accordance with the current legislation, regular unemployment subsidies to the members of the tourist and food industry, as well as to other seasonal workers, have been reduced to 50 days of work from a hundred to cover as much as possible. Moreover, for this category of workers, the unemployed, i.e. in the tourism and food industry, for which there is no reintegration obligation, exceptional compensation has already been provided for the months of January and February. In conclusion, let me say a few words about the systematic upgrading of the services provided by the OAD, which is currently being implemented by the Ministry of Labour. Just last week the Minister of Labour presented with the OAED commander a new application, OAED app, which provides access to more than forty electronic services of the organisation through their mobile phone. The digitisation of more and more agencies of the Ministry's supervised bodies, such as EFKA and OAED, is our strategic priority. If you will allow me, Mr President, to take a minute from my dentistry to reply to a specific subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u239	Sure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Vardakis, in your question you had nothing specific about tours. But I happen to know the matter. In the months of January and February they get help.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u241	Minister, it's about the fifty marks. So it's identical.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u242	In the months of January and February they receive normal help too. But I also wanted to say something more general.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u243	January - February, how, Minister? They don't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u244	Mr. Vardakis, let him finish, and then you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u245	We are sometimes making time like this, Mr President. You know I don't open matters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u246	I didn't say no, but you interrupt him and lose his thoughts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u247	No, no, Mr Vardakis is right in the sense that he is not in my area of competence. However, I have had quite accidental communication with a person of the space, precisely on this matter. That is why I am aware of the answer. I would just like to say that it is a very unfair charge you make. In a country which is indebted to the neck we have managed and put EUR 24 billion into the economy last year for aid, 15% of GDP. Over 1.75 million private sector employees, the vast majority of employees, and large groups of self-employed workers, were aided. For the unemployed, I spoke in detail about my prototype. I'll say more in my denture. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u248	Mr. Vardakis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u249	Minister, I have told you and I believe that in your scientific training I also have confidence in you personally. But you're making the same mistake your predecessors made. Minister, I do not think I have any problem with saying that you have given it, but that remains to be seen in practice - EUR 25 billion in support of labour and business support. I have another point of view. She's not here, though. Understood. A hundred actually became fifty. I don't know if your partners are misinforming you. Is the eighty-five years old for young subsidized people? Oh, no. The eighty-five that is the second category, so the tours can enter the unemployment fund? It's not right what you said. Allow me, Minister. The unemployment fund is not in place for tour guides, because they do not have the eighty meanings provided for, and they should have fifty. That's not set. And I stop here. I am willing, Minister, to be here every day. I'm telling you, honestly. We can no longer play with resistance and human survival issues that are currently leading them to the cliff. And we're all responsible, and we're not showing, if you like, the issues in time you have to, but you're the ones who are deaf already. I've just told you three cases understandable. You can tell me why, after workers have been suspended - it is not in the question, but I want you to note it, do not answer me now, but see it as a problem - in November, companies will not be declared seasonal because 25% of the wall has been filled with and thousands of workers will not be able to enter the unemployment fund. The OAED shall not accept the application. That's it. A matter. The second thing I have just said is to make the eighty-five brands for both guides and the young people. It's two counts. You've been confused. I told you you guys were doing the right thing. You legislated. I don't deny, I'm not denying everything. That's right, you legislated the hundred to be fifty. But you did not have the eighty to become fifty - it is the second category - which means that thousands of people are subsidised without an unemployment fund. If you want, don't answer me. I'm telling you, honestly. I came here to find a solution for people who are a step before the cliff. Trust me. And in Crete we happen to have over twenty-five thousand food workers - tourism. Imagine what's going on with those who worked three hours, four hours, and they don't get together. No one completed eighty-eight marks. Where to find them? These charges are. I'm stopping here. If you want, don't answer me. It will satisfy me tomorrow to go out and say that "Yes, there is one right here, we will resolve the issue of tours, we will give them the special purpose allowance, or we will put them in the unemployment fund with fifty marks, and for the young subsidized, we are fifty. You've thought the hundred to be fifty. Keep the eighty to fifty. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u250	Be well, Mr. Vardakis. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u251	Mr. Vardakis, let's be honest with ourselves. The measures taken by the government are many, targeted and effective. Our main aim is to help as many of our fellow citizens as possible. If we specify the categories of beneficiaries in subcategories and subcategories, to prove something, that's not the right approach. Let me say - and I said this before - that it would really be irresponsible, not to say dangerous, for a country carrying a debt ratio of over 200%, to adopt a subsidy policy that is without criteria and conditions. We are here, next to the businesses, the workers and the unemployed, but we must not forget where we come from. Unfortunately, our country was particularly unfortunate about the time when the pandemic broke out, and even though the conditions were particularly unfavourable, I think we were able to stand up to the circumstances and promote public health with regard to anything else. The challenges on the labour market are really great and after the end of the pandemic they will not disappear. The pandemic will have an impact on both the Greek and the global economy and the next period of time. The government is obliged today - and it is doing so - to create safety conditions for the population both from a health and from an economic point of view. But it must also be prepared for the next day to store resources and actions, to develop policies with a view to the future, so that very soon, along with the lifting of health restrictions, the whole of the country's economy will also be relaunched. In conclusion, I would like to remind you that the four pillars of the Greek recovery and resilience plan include the crucial pillar of employment, skills and social cohesion, which is a key lever for economic and social development. Within the framework of the successful support of this pillar's actions and policies, the OAED is the government's most public and responsible operational body to coordinate the relevant actions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u252	Thank you, Mr Chacloglu. Mr. Bardakis, good luck all the time! Take it easy! Mr. Tsakloglu remains, because we're going to hang up with Mr. Mulkiotis. We therefore move on to the debate of the sixth under number 427/15-2-2021 on the second time question by the Member of Parliament of the Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: 'Strengthening of the agony of workers at the Scaramaga shipyards'. Mr. Mulkiotis, good evening, good week! You have two minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u253	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are coming back to a subject known to you. We have again discussed this issue, but the stress and anxiety of the workers at the Scaramaga shipyards, but also the uncertainties that have been created and the insecurity have commanded us in our mission to come back to Parliament and to see what is happening about the Scaramaga shipyards. Unfortunately, although there are repeated promises from other ministers here, in the House of Parliament to resolve this issue, even now that we are talking about there is no message. You know the history. It's not the time to tell her. It refers in detail to the current question. Unfortunately, the situation is at the expense of these people. They were forced once rotated to work one day a week. The courts have annulled this procedure. Their lawsuit was accepted. Once they were vindicated, they went to the ELKA of Elefsina to find a solution. Unfortunately, to this day it is in a complete uncertainty and complete insecurity. The questions are two. On the economic question, what is the pay paid? It's a year's money and more, which is in a void and they haven't taken a drachma. In addition to that, it is insurance contributions. It is a specific time period, March 2012 with September 2013. It is a process that has gone to the FBI and there is no solution. That is why we are asking today, Minister. I had no reason to come back on the same subject. It's a drama they live in. It's not a shape of speech, but it's the substance. I would like to tell you this on behalf of the Commission and in relation to a very serious parliamentary procedure that we have. I would ask you very much to answer these two questions from the workers. They're not mine. I'm transferring the workers' questions. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr Mulkiotis. The Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u255	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, thank you and you again. I would like to say that this is the second time you have brought the investment into the Scaramaga shipyards, as well as issues that have been affecting workers for many years in them. In November, I had answered a relevant question from this step - I think it was already yours - before the auction took place. I must therefore repeat in the most emphatic way that the government's objective was and remains to ensure the future of the shipyards. The government is not oriented by its main objective of changing the country's production model, and the shipbuilding industry plays an important role over there. After a decade of economic crisis and a successive health crisis that also has an economic impact, our country cannot kick the opportunity presented for the revival of the country's shipbuilding and military industry in terms of transparency and legality. The companies owned by the Greek State must dismantle this retreat of the lost case. It is a strategic aim of the Government to benefit from the Greek public divestment of the yards with the greatest possible job security. In order to understand the size of the company, it is stated that, when it was placed in a special management, the yard was employed by about nine employees. It had EUR 1,37 billion in state aid and obligations, several billion euros, but in arbitration and any obligations, outstanding issue of licences and arbitrary issues, as well as a ban on trade. With mathematical accuracy, the above would lead to bankruptcy and what would result in jobs, national defence and a national economy. The Greek State and the special administrator who took the case within a minimum period of time carried out a series of decisive actions. First of all, it prevented the ruthless bankruptcy of the shipyards. All the obligations for recovery of State aid have been met. The necessary conditions have been created to ensure that jobs are not lost. In close work with the supervising ministries and the competent authorities, almost all major legal, urban and licensing issues have been dealt with and all this in order to give a sustainable perspective to the Greek shipbuilding industry and to make shipping resurrected to potential investors. We have reached the point where only the company's assets are transferred with zero obligations with all the permits and issues settled, so that there can be a relaunch with facilities that are already in operation. The design and execution of the liquidation of HSY, i.e. the Scaramaga shipyards, was carried out in full compliance with the relevant judgments of the European Union judiciary regarding the recovery of State aid, so that the majority investor would be given the opportunity to obtain a clean and without any obligation of an asset with good prospects for the realisation of strategic investments and long-term benefits for the Greek economy. The public tender procedure carried out on 11 September 2020 for the divestment of the yard as a single operational set was, unfortunately, deemed to be infertile due to the low bids submitted by the candidates on the basis of a decision of the meeting of the creditors of the company. In a fluid environment of budgetary constraints, as well as the economic crisis, we are working methodically to find a solution and in my dentext I will specifically answer the question of the workers you put in the second part of your question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u257	Minister, indeed what you said so is, so they have been carried out, so they have been launched and continued. Indeed, in September there was the barren process. It was degrading this amount that was made available to the public. It was a sum that didn't fit in a serious situation. However, workers remain in an insecurity and in a situation as it was at the time. There has been no change, neither positive nor negative. It's probably negative, 'cause the workers need their money. You have, of course, answered that there is the government's interest in moving the ship repair area forward. Yeah, I won't argue with that. For workers, however, Minister, what position does the government take? This eighteen-month period which I said, from March 2012 to September 2013, has ordered the financial data from a court, they have appealed to the Elefsina FBI and an act has not yet been put in place to impose contributions. So difficult was it to get a contributory act for these workers? Why? More than a hundred employees, if there had been contributions and received their marks, they would already have retired. The number of workers today would have fallen. Why, then, does this act of levying levies not come out in order to clarify this matter? That's the point. It's also the anguish of these people. This has been happening for so long and we also have this famous bureaucracy. You too are bewildered by this issue and your service actors are making any suggestions. There's this loose end. I would like you to answer us if this has indeed been brought to your attention. Because it may not have been put into your knowledge. I'm not questioning anything to you. However, I doubt a procedure that is taking place. Parliament's replies are given to Members' questions from the Ministry, not only from you but also from the other relevant ministers, and yet the situation remains the same. Workers remain in a given story negative. Look at it from the Minutes. In November we discussed the same subject. What has been written in these Minutes is indeed what has been said in this Chamber. But the workers are in an unfavourable situation and I repeat it. So I ask, apart from the logic and policy of the government in relation to the course of the Scaramaga shipyards, what about their successes and what about the settlement of the insurance pending from 2012? We'll go to 2022 in a few months. I'm saying it! It also comes out in 2021. How long will it take? I'm telling you, honestly. It is a trick for the political system and for the government to have this loose end. How else can I say it? I can't say it any different. And you, Minister, cannot tolerate this situation. I do. I'm telling you, honestly. So let the FSA deal with the cleansing and finish. Retire and some people who have been afflicted by nearly a decade. Mercy for these people! Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u259	Dear Mr Mulkiotis, I would like to continue where I stopped. The Scaramaga shipyards can, under the appropriate conditions, play a leading role in the next day. Today the shipyard is already in operation by offering services to the Navy and has all the permits provided. All arbitrary buildings are settled to be able to function immediately after the transfer. Assurance of the investment in the yards in interests of the Greek State, obviously constitutes a strategic pursuit of the Government. To this end, the tender for the divestment of the yard will be reopened within the next period probably even in March. The objective of the Greek Government and of any interested investor should be the actual production function of the company that will highlight the strategic importance of the Scaramaga shipyards for the country's productive tissue. Shipyards are able to produce internationally market goods of high value added. The Government's constant pursuit is also the care and best support of the workers. You realise that there is a connection between jobs and the successful competitive process. Alternative scenarios and solutions are currently being considered. However, we are working on the maintenance of jobs and the possible resettlement of these workers by means of specific work programmes or their retirement programmes, since they are aged close to this point. This is what you mentioned earlier. With regard to workers' employees' employees and the settlement of the related insurers for the period in question, the matter was judged by the judiciary. These are cases which have been dealt with firstly by the competent civil courts and which have been decided on against the employer's sums. With respect to the judgments of the courts, all the co-legislative ministries are ensuring that no worker loses their jobs. For the Ministry of Labour and Social Security, the insurance of workers is a matter for the court rulings which justify workers. Obviously, the ECJ will respect justice decisions and do what it imposes on the public interest in order to ensure the insurance rights of workers, but also the rights of the institution itself and the interests of the institution itself, namely the ECA. The utility of the investment is also through the normalisation of the serious gaps that employ the workers. Mr Mulkiotis, there is no doubt that this is a complex matter. At the heart of the revival of the Scaramaga shipyard, I would like to assure you that there is the protection of workers' working and insurance rights, as well as the fairest possible and effective solution to their problems. The size of the shipyard, its geopolitical position on the crossroads of the passages from the Black Sea to Gibraltar and Suez, the weather conditions prevailing in the area, i.e., ideal temperature and humidity for ship repair work, are characteristic that add value to the shipyard. We work for the next day. We want the shipyard to operate unreservedly throughout the whole range of shipyard operations for any type of vessel by again gaining the position of the country's top shipyard and the important player of the shipbuilding industry throughout the Mediterranean basin. From this process primarily won workers themselves will be in the company. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u260	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. We will close with the same protagonists and with the twelfth under number 435/15-2-2021 a topical question by the Member of the Boeotia Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. George Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Support of a second chance for lost debt arrangements to the insurance funds'. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u261	Thank you, Mr President. The question concerns the provision of a second chance for lost debt arrangements to the insurance funds. There have been regulations in the past - and we are talking about the hundred and twenty instalments to both the public and the insurance funds - that unfortunately the economic situation, the various problems, and the pandemic, have also led to their disappearance. The farmers' sector has been particularly affected, except for the olive growers, until now that we are talking about there is no aid. What the government's side says is another matter. What's going on in practice? No support for farmers. These are, therefore, the medium-term debtors and farmers, after losing basic contributions, in a difficult situation. Although they want to be regulated now gradually - with the hundred and twenty doses that they could - they do not have the option. There has been provision for regulation only for the COVID period, this short period of time. However, at the time when the government actually legislated, it is incomplete for the pre-COVID categories, any categories which are neither ten nor a hundred. There are thousands of these people who want to participate and pay, but they cannot because of the institutional framework that exists. We as a Change Movement as early as November had tabled an amendment to a bill. The government has not only rejected it, but has not even dealt with it as usual. What were we talking about? That what has happened in the pre-COVID period, at any time, can be placed in the 100 twenty-dose, as it was, provided that the first dose is paid, as soon as the relevant provision is issued. The world, in other words, even farmers today, want to pay even these few, but they can join you in the hundred and twenty instalments. They can't be different. And that is the question, Minister, which we are asking. Why not take care and care and provide for those who lost before COVID, not for her. And there are thousands who want to give money, want to be involved, to be settled, to be okay, because they sounded, because they had serious problems, especially farmers. That is my question, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u262	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The Secretary of State for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr. Tsakloglu, will answer. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u263	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Mulkiotis, the government, having been fully aware of the difficult situation in which businesses and workers have come, as a result of the suspension of economic activity, has implemented a set of measures and interventions to support households and businesses' incomes. These measures consist of both targeted and horizontal actions. I have been mentioned several times in the detailed support measures that we have taken and we will continue to take as long as necessary. In relation to your question about the possibilities offered by the debtors who lost their regulation to the insurance funds and to confirm what I said earlier, last week and specifically on 16 February, the Ministry of Labour tabled an amendment providing that the insurance contributions for businesses and freelance professionals, relating to the debts of the first pandemic period, namely three months for businesses and four months for the self-employed, are frozen until 31 December 2021. I am referring to the debts that were set for 30 April 2021 and are now being extended until the end of the year. A special framework for repayment of these debts was set, with a choice between twenty-four interest-free instalments or forty-eight instalments at a rate of 2.5%, always limiting the minimum monthly instalment of 50 euros. In addition, in respect of obligations of eight hundred thousand non-wages relating to the clearing of contributions from 2017 to 2019, it has been decided to extend their payment for three months. The first of the five instalments envisaged is thus transferred instead of 31 March to 30 June 2021. As far as the company debts are concerned, we continue to grant steady monthly extensions for their payment. I would remind you here that in addition to the above, the debtors retain the possibility of joining the provisions of Law 4611/19, that is to say in the hundred 20 instalments, until 30 April 2021, and that applies to the debtors who had already applied for the determination of the debt on the electronic platform of EKA and, of course, all who still retain the right to join the fixed provisions of the twelve instalments, as described in No 4152/13. Therefore, Mr Mulkiotis, it is undeniable that the framework of the possibilities for the arrangements that have been lost due to the conditions is as wide as possible. But be careful. We are at a very critical moment, trying to keep ourselves safe at health, but also sustainable at economic level. In no case do we want a culture of non-payment to be cultivated, a culture which we have paid very much in previous times in our country and tolerability to the contrary. We support the affected and those who need it more without forgetting the difficult lessons that the country has taken over the past decade. And I would like to remind you in all respects that the payment of social security insurance contributions is not voluntary and that ensuring the sustainability of the insurance funds is an issue that in fact concerns us all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u264	And thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u265	Minister, I'm sorry. I have and will tell you different things, not because I want them, but these come from documents. It starts in 2021 and there are serious, serious deficits in the insurance funds. Why? I will tell you and submit to you in the minutes from the electronic newspaper 'economia.gr': 'In the first half of the year it will be the most difficult from the beginning of the pandemic for the funds, considering that the deviation from the budget of EFKA will exceed 1 billion'. And it refers to a failure to pay contributions and to a failure to pay regulated contributions. The same is said in other words: "NAYTERVORICE". I'll testify to her in the Minutes. They say the papers, everyone says we can't afford to pay. And we're talking about what? For contributions now, which are actually suspended. [[At this point, Georgios Mulkiotis presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I won't question what you said. I don't doubt what you said. I shall say, however, that there is a loose end and a deficit. I, Mr Minister, cannot understand this, and it is called the expression 'non-payment culture' again. This bureaucracy that has chosen this expression, do you understand what expression he has chosen? In other words, that expression is absolutely hypocritical. That's what works for us all. It's catching me, too, that I can't pay, that I've lost my control because I had a problem, something happened, and I'm losing the hundred and twenty instalments, and I'm ending with the arrangements that have been made, there's no possibility. There is no farmer, Minister, to know - and ask the service responsible to tell you - who has now managed to pay this money every month. Do you know why? Because the man must live. He hasn't got a single euro. And you should know one more thing. He wants to sow now, grow, day after day the fertilisers rise from 1 to 2 euros. Here's what I'm telling you. Every day the fertilisers rise 1 to 2 euros and nobody speaks. It's all quiet. And fertilizers are not that came out right now, they're in warehouses, but because the urea of oil, which is a product to be done to produce the fertilizer, creates these situations. He can't pay, Minister, the farmer. I insist, and I say it. Find solutions and enable him to settle his insurance looseness that has lost it and is before COVID. This amendment, which we tabled - and I told you, Minister - on 23 November 2020: 'Subsidiaries with insurance contributions that had been included in a partial payment arrangement, who lost until 17 November 2020 the divisional payment arrangement may be reincorporated into the same arrangement on the same terms and conditions'. Whenever she was lost before that time, whenever. But you, the government here, defines and limits space for months to COVID era. The ones who were before COVID what would happen? They remain in God’s mercy, but they want to pay. And while we see that the funds are diagnosed, we see that in general they cannot pay, and there are those who want to pay, give them the chance. That is the essence of our question. It is only in this context, Mr President, that I am referring in particular to the farmers' multi-faceted class. And I say it after knowing, I live it every day, there is a major issue, there will be no possibility for people to move forward, to grow this year. It is a huge problem, and that will have consequences of another kind, which we understand. We'll be laughing about what's going on in a while. Minister, I do not know whether you are ready or not, but I ask you to look at the matter, give farmers an answer as to whether the people who have lost will have the opportunity. They want to give even a euro. Once the funds have a financial problem today, there is a huge deficit and there will be a huge problem. You know that. Nothing's working. Turn-over work, half-money, half-work, suspensions. There's no collection. What will happen, Minister? You know it, you live it. You're nervous every day. I understand that. But give it a chance. Watch out. It is not a culture that it is called, the culture of non-payment. There are also the bad faiths to whom this expression can really fit. But don't call her. It is unfair for too many, and especially for the farmers' class. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr Mulkiotis. Mr. Chacloglu, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u267	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Mulkiotis, I have mentioned several times since the Step of the House that the government is making every effort every day. It goes without saying that not all cases can be covered, it would be impossible. You know that very well, too. The existing possibilities help a large proportion of debtors to earn a year's credit, which must indeed be granted because of the exceptional circumstances imposed on us by the pandemic. In any case, we do not ignore the needs of support for those affected and the dynamics that develop every day with the development of the pandemic. We evaluate the information we have at our disposal every time, which our fellow citizens are the ones who need the greatest protection and we provide it directly and without hesitation. The same is true of the existing possibilities for regulating the insurance funds. Let me say, however, that the horizontal measures that you are basically proposing are not necessarily the fairest, especially when it comes to the management of dues. I think that the'magical' talk in your question is what it says about 'at any time in the past'. Do you understand what we're opening with? The targeted actions and recognition of the specific characteristics of each affected group can offer much greater relief to the beneficiaries from a horizontal measure that would artificially give to all common characteristics. I repeat that I have a different perception from you. I have no doubt that there was a very large portion of the world and the past decade and the current circumstance that has a weakness of payment. But let's not be fooled. And now he's undergoing a culture of non-payment. And there was, and there was. We saw this as soon as there were coercive measures, where a portion of our compatriots went and paid. Previously, when we didn't touch them at all, they told us they couldn't pay. But it seemed that it wasn't. The strategic poor payer cannot have the same treatment as the debtors in need because of the circumstances. So that we do not forget where the country is, let me mention one item in the quarterly reports of the CRL. Of the 37 billion in total due time, 74%, i.e. about 28 billion, were created before 2009. If I adopt this logic of yours 'no matter where they have been created', all of them must enter this regulation. Some of the companies that were in debt before 2009 are true that in the meantime they have closed down. Some of them, however, still work. It is therefore perfectly understandable why we need to separate our strategy towards debtors. I know very well as an economist, but also as a State Secretary for Labour that the next day will not be easy and that the consequences of the health crisis will be very serious, not only for our country, but also at global level. The 'waters' are indeed unpaid, but we are already planning our policies in order to keep businesses and jobs alive and thus give our insurance funds a future which we so much need. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u268	Thank you, too, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a good day to both of you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-02-22-S1-commons.u269	With the consent of this House at 19.49 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 23 February 2021, at 10.00 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
