ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] I have the honour to inform the House of the topical and urgent debate on Wednesday 3 November 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 116/29-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA Deputy Athens - Progressive Alliance Mr.Nikolaos Friend to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Twenty thousand Coronovirus cases in schools in one and a half months' time. To break the multitude of sections now." 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question by No 124/1-11-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Conferences in secondary schools in the West Athens Sector". 3. The 112/26-10-2021 topical question by MP Serres of the Greek Solution Mr. Konstantinos Boubas to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "True injustice to the students of the Municipal School of Ammouliani, Halkidiki". Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: "Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organisation and operation of rural trade, arrangements for the pursuit of leisure activities and the simplification of activities in education, improvements to the collective legislation and other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment". Before giving the floor to Mr Papapas who is the first speaker, the Minister has asked the floor for three, four minutes to make some supplements to the amendment he presented yesterday. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. Because I referred in my speech to articles in the amendment, but I did not mention the general number, it is 1110 with a special number of 86. This amendment to Article 1 regulates issues of settling with Law 4495, i.e. the gradual integration of property into the EBRD's Law 4495 property. I have referred to Article 2, which relates to the fitting of machinery above the permitted height, and which applies to off-projects, and we are also asking for it to be applied to parks in industrial parks. Article 3 refers to the Entrepreneurship Park in the Oinofyta area, so that high productivity land may also be authorised activities authorised within that park. Article 4 sets out a pending procedure for debt certification for training programmes. Article 5 of the Statute of the Committee shall be extended one year to conclude work contracts with engineers and Article 6 with an addition of settled issues relating to the speeding up of procedures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u3	Good. Mr Yiannis Pappas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u4	Good morning, Mr. President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin my speech, I wish you all a good month. Let us hope that this year's November is not as difficult as last year's pandemic forehead and that we can go through this difficult cave with the smallest possible losses. Let us now see the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment. We are lucky that our ancestors in ancient Greece gave humanity tools so that a discussion can be held and conclusions reached. One such tool is Socrates' dialectic method. Do we agree that people's markets and rural trade have history and are part of the culture of our people? Apparently, yes. Can an institutional framework of the previous century ensure entry into a new era? The answer is, of course, no. Has the framework of operation for the people's markets had any problems and had any distortions? Clearly yes, we've all said it here through all the lines. Did it have to change the operating framework at some point and obtain rules aimed at transparency, also achieving the original goal of the people? We all say yes to everything. However, let us see historically why the people's markets have been created: in order that all citizens can obtain products directly from producers, agricultural and not, which are quality, at a very good price, of course. On the other hand, so that producers can sell their products to consumers without intermediaries. That's all right, that's all, that's all. But what is the problem with the years? Welcomers took advantage of the grey points of the rural trade framework. Result? Consumers should not ultimately have access to cheap and quality products, producers being locked up in a network of interests for which both local government officials - some of them - and some of their trade unionists have a great responsibility. But let us be honest at some point and really see the situation. Finally, the state did not regulate a sector of the economy, which was created to benefit many, and ultimately resulted in few gains being gained. Ladies and gentlemen, I understand your need to stand up to what the government brings to the vote. I can even call it fair. But what I do not understand and what I call it unfair is the way in which you are oppositioning. You read this bill. You have heard the consultation with the institutions. You have seen the efforts and actions taken by our parliamentary group. And here I would like to thank the rapporteur, Mr Simopoulos, for the enormous work and work he has done and the result that we are seeing today, but also our Ministry, the Minister, the Deputy Minister and the Deputy Minister for the effort they have done, because they have received the messages from us, they have spoken with the producers, farmers, the Minister himself came down on the sidewalk near them to explain them. But you continue here to say and insist that the government wants to close the people's markets and put private interests inside. Because I don't want to believe that you're a low perception, I'll blame it on your need for your opposition. I would ask you not, however, to do so, as you have done on pandemic and national issues. In this case, in fact, you will also go after a year to our people and what you will see is sure to satisfy you. It will satisfy you because you will know that the producer whose products you bought, who has them at the best price possible, the bench he has and will have to work with, will have him because he was entitled and not because you will have some other thoughts, some second thoughts. You will know that the prices you have bought were indeed the best possible prices and you will also know that the tax will normally be paid to the State. Ladies and gentlemen, the core of the draft law aims to improve the operating framework of the people's markets. The crucial thing is the change in the moleculosis system, which grants licences to producers - sellers, to young people, because you again populated, because there is no question of existing licences. Those who hold licences will continue to have them. With changes we are opening up the prospect of young people who choose to engage in business with the primary sector and production. Thirty-five molecules will molecule those under thirty years of age and proportionately decrease up to ten molecules for over forty-one years. To date ten molecules were received under forty and over fifty - five years old. For producers, the number of children, thirty molecules for multitudes, twenty for threeteen for those with two children, and ten for those with two children is also taken into account. Take note of a significant change here, too. The holders of a university degree in the rural direction - because yesterday we heard incredible things - will be premiumed with 20 molecules, while those who have a high-school examination will be premiumd with five molecules. We want young farmers to be trained and to be able to access trade. How much simpler and how much more understandable this can be? Because earlier I spoke about modernisation, let's see what form this modernisation might have. Those of you who have gone to large cities in Europe have certainly achieved major outdoor markets. The draft law establishes new types of outdoor markets, such as ready-made food and drink markets, on the road, the well-known'stream food market', the standard popular market and the market for craftsmen, artists. The real modernisation, however, comes with the use of technology. In one part, we have the integrated information system for citizens' producers. The notices on new licences and to cover vacant posts will be entered there, as will the audit reports and even the infringements imposed. In the second part we have the e-consumer platform aimed at informing consumers. It is already used every day by more than two hundred thousands of our fellow citizens, according to the data and as the relevant Minister, Mr. Adonis Georgiadis, has informed us. The aim is that this number should be multiplied by the participation of all producers of the people's markets, so that our fellow citizens can have a proper and objective information, but also be able to earn money. Each seller will import until 8.00 p.m. on the e-consumer platform the starting price of products available on the popular market, as well as the quantity available per product. Everyone knows that as far as the day goes, this price will fall and that will be for everyone's benefit. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that you are not going to vote in favour of the bill for the reasons I have just mentioned. I grieve because you choose to get together with yesterday and with the interests. We, however, are glad that he is entering order for the benefit of the many, and why we import tools that you will also use to find cheaper products and to reflect on you smiling Greek producers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u5	My colleague will now take the floor from SYRIZA Mr Nikolaos Igoumenides. Here, Mr. Igoumenides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u6	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are seeing the condolences and condolences of the Members of the New Democracy. The Minister thanks his parliamentary group, the Parliamentary Group congratulates the Ministry and the Parliamentary Representative thanks Mr Mitsotakis for his initiatives. Look, gentlemen: all these condolences and condolences cannot hide that today one of the most unpopular bills of the state of today's New Democracy Government and Mr Mitsotakis comes to plenary. You are obliged to producers every morning in electronic price posts. You impose exterminated fines that today people of the people will not be able to repay. You define an annual notice on the positions of producers, to which traders are primarily favoured. You are introducing unfair competition between producers and traders, in which it is clear that in the medium term producers are at risk of being outside the public. A crown of all these changes you propose is the conversion of the producer's license to a professional license. This provision encourages farmers to sell to professional sellers while at the same time prompting the abandonment of their activity as a professional farmer. It obliges those who choose to stay in the field to sell their products only to the wholesaler in the 1/3 price that they will pay to the people. Instead of a license, a place is designated to be obtained by a contest. You are, in other words, abolishing the folk's licence, which is the core of the operation of the markets. You set criteria for actual glue for positions, such as degrees, age, number of children, unemployment and constellation of a farmer or seller. You exclude representatives of producers and small sellers from taking decisions on the issues that concern them. I read to you what the President of the Federation of Producers of the People's Markets of Crete said: "You can't make an electronic platform on which we send sms to put the weights and prices on. In Heraklion, Rethymnon and Chania, this thing can't be done. There's also people old. There must be someone younger, their son or their daughter, for example, to be able to send them. They don't even have cell phones and they need an accountant." Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the details of the measures - several of which were raised by the debate and followed by many other speakers - in fact producers are actually being pushed out of the public and removed indirectly, but very clearly by the bill that you are bringing about between the producer and the consumer. The great absence of this bill is any care to maintain the quality of products. As perceived in market terms, the intermediary is not interested in what he is selling, but in how much he sells and what profit he has. The great losers of these changes you bring are the producer and the consumer. At a time when product prices are rising rapidly, the government chooses to give the charismatic shot by torpedoing and an institution on which the people's household is based and which, as a rule, is buying products once a week. You are actually attacking this institution by increasing costs for producers and by changing the philosophy of the people's market since 1922. It ceases the uninterrupted presence of producers in the people, dismantled the character of the people's markets, and the people's markets are turned into commercial markets. That is why the President of the Party said to us that it is another bill than what we will "deplore" the "second time on the left". However, it is not just the policy you are pursuing on the people's markets. It is a part of the same policy that you are pursuing in all matters relating to everyday life. Should we take the anti-government law, where every worker is barren in the interests of a few? Should we get the education bills? Should we take the whole business and the economy issues? A lot can be said about everything. However, I would just like to focus on the issue of pandemic recently. Every week it erases a village of the country from the map and you forged indifferently. SYRIZA didn't speak, but Mr. Mitsotakis spoke for the last mile. SYRIZA didn't talk, but Mr. Mitsotakis was talking about the end of the pandemic. It is not SYRIZA, but the New Democracy Government that merges a thousand sections by consuming pupils to parts of twenty-eight and twenty-nine when the cases in young age are a thousand five hundred. It's not SYRIZA, but it's the New Democracy government that cuts about 1 billion from the 1922 public health budget. The permanent workers at the ESS today are fewer than those who were serving at the beginning of the pandemic and you, looking for mediocre victims of losing control of the spread of the virus in the community, are being done against the workers. The conclusion is one: The neoliberal agenda that you propose and impose seriously harms not only the people's markets, which we are discussing today, but all the issues that concern Greek society, the neoliberal agenda harms society, the economy and the country as a whole. This cannot go on any longer. It's time to change the rota. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u7	For three minutes, the Minister for Maritime Affairs and Island Policy, Mr Placiotakis, has the floor to present the part concerning his Ministry in an amendment. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the proposed amendment, in essence, the question of the work of a monitor on shellfish and sponge fishing vessels is tackled and the aim is to replace the monitor by a successful student at the Kalymnos School and, if there is no such, by a licence holder or a apprentice. That is why we are now proposing this amendment. We propose it because the Kalymnos School did not work because of the pandemic in the two previous academic periods and it was not possible to have the necessary number of observers to meet the needs of fishing vessels. That is why, in fact, we are proposing to extend the special provision until 31 October 2023. I would like to remind you here that the first extension was given in 2008. I want to make it clear, furthermore, that the Kalymnos Two School will reopen, having started all the necessary procedures at the beginning of the year. It is also noted that according to the observed data for the Kalymnos Two School, from 2000 until now, there have been a hundred and nine students in the observer’s specialty and of these twenty - five were holders of a sailor’s license. It is therefore understandable that the extension period is deemed appropriate in order to allow the question that has arisen with the adequacy of the qualified supervisors who graduate from the Kalymnos School and to allow for the uninterrupted continuation of their work. In any case - and I think this is the important thing to be said - the Ministry of Shipping is already working on an integrated project for the Two School, modernising a truly outdated institution. We are also interested in upgrading the operation of the Kalymnos School and, of course, its viability. The ultimate objective is for school to be a model of vocational training in the near future and for vocational qualifications to be recognised and, indeed, at international level. And, of course, our goal and desire is a school worthy of history, of the importance of duplex professions for much of our fishing fleet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u9	We continue with the list of speakers. Mr George Kotsos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, while listening to the last speaker of the Officerial Vice-President, I will be tempted to say that limits must be put in place and that the coronary canal must be stopped once, because for all, such as the people's markets, we are listening to 'Koroni', for whatever matter we are talking about, 'Koroni'. Most of all, however, this unpleasant situation is taking place in our country. But it's not just our country, it's the whole planet. And, if anything, in this direction, let each of us consider his or her responsibility and his role towards this pandemic, which is afflicting the whole planet, and makes all of us all have a common attitude, a common language, so that we can convince the last citizen to move to vaccination, because, as far as is evident from the whole of the scientific community, it is almost the only answer, the only solution to this issue. It is true that today we are discussing a subject - the people's markets - an institution very old with economic, commercial and social content, with cultural content. People's markets, particularly for provincial towns, are points of reference, points of meeting, points of association and above all all points of trade, where the producer is able, above all, to place his products at the maximum possible price for him, but at the minimum possible price for the consumer. It is not possible, therefore, to hear views such as producers are now forced to sell 1/3 of their price to wholesalers. But where does that come from? Where does that come from? And I'm telling you this, because as mayor I was responsible for twenty-one years in operation of popular markets, where, if anything, it was the place where production met with consumption directly. Of course, over the years it is true that we have created and developed pathogens, which now come the present draft law to heal, and above all to adapt this institution of the people's markets to the new 21st century data with a new regulatory framework, which will enable producers, in particular, to work transparently, in improved facilities and, of course, to make use of digital technology. Is it possible in the era of the fourth industrial revolution that we continue to turn our backs on digital technology? Is it possible to ignore the fact that many times in the people's markets, where the cloak of the so-called producer is concealed by back traders on the substance, who exploit the producer or exploit the consumer? The aim of our government, the aim of the bill, if anything, is to support producers sovereignly and the popularity of the people's markets. And how do we do that? By allowing them to enter the popular markets not companies anymore, but only natural persons and producer cooperatives. It is true that the people's markets are favouring the consumer's low income, the one who can go and shop the product he wants at the cheapest cost directly from the producer and we must protect him. With the changes that we are proposing, healthy entrepreneurship is being strengthened and equalised between producer and consumer, but we dominately give the municipalities the responsibility for managing, coordinating and organising the people's markets. Does anyone doubt that the municipality, primary local government, as the closest to the citizen institution, is the most appropriate, most responsible for managing the people's markets? Besides, remember that it is the municipalities that will clean up the people's market, they are the ones that will maintain the infrastructure of the people's market, and they will receive any fee imposed by the municipal council and, above all, they are the ones who also have the responsibility for the proper, correct and transparent functioning of the public markets. Is there any doubt that this role should be played by the closest to the citizen, to the producer, to the consumer, to the consumer? The draft law therefore moves in the right direction by giving this responsibility to local government. We all want them to find with transparency whatever information and data are needed to get to the people's market, to avoid dark procedures and to have full transparency about the place on the people's markets. I've lived through it. It is not easy to process, or it was not easy, and there was a great deal of effort being made by some to catalyse this opportunity given to the municipalities to determine the positions on the basis of whether someone was a trader, whether someone was a producer or with any other categorisation there was in the people's markets. SYRIZA has a negative position against the bill. Why? You don't want transparency? Do we not want producers to be self-sufficient, to define their future, to define themselves, to define their product, to define their availability? Should we have them raided by dealers or anyone else who exploits this situation? After all, we must not lose sight of the fact that no producer is excluded from placing his products on the people's market and that it is determined on the basis of the statement he makes in the OSCE, so that we do not have these phenomena that I have told you before, behind the producer's cloak of concealing other phenomena, and also have the opportunity to place similar products on the people's market. Furthermore, the draft law also serves and protects the citizen by being informed of the prices, which are important, so that he can find the cheapest product where he wants to be with the proper quality he wants. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to point out that this draft law is aimed at economic development, but also at protecting the incomes of the economically weaker Greeks in particular. It builds the confidence of producers with the State and supports Greek entrepreneurship. I invite you all to vote in favour of this. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u11	Mr President, I would like to take the floor to inform you that we accept the amendment to which the Minister for Maritime Affairs has just referred, Mr Plakkatakis, apart from Article 1, which will be removed. Nor do we accept the parliamentary amendment under a general number 1108 and a specific number 84.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u12	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Igoumenides, you don't have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u14	Staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u15	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u16	But the colleague said...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u17	Mr. Igoumenides, leave it now. We also have a roll-call vote. For God's sake! Mr. Boutsikakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u18	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u19	Mr. Butsikakis has changed with Mr. Kotsos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u20	But it was me before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u21	You're in your turn. Nobody took your turn. You are between the two and there has been a mutual change between two colleagues of the same party. You're allowed. Don't worry, Mr. Colleague, I'm not wrong. Mr. Butsikaki, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as demonstrated by today's bill, the New Democracy Government once again speeds up reforms because after the end of the health crisis, as we know very well, the big bet is the economy. Despite pandemic, and thanks to all the government's initiatives, developments to date, but also positive estimates for the immediate future, have exceeded everyone's expectations. ELSTAT's recent figures show that household income is constantly improving, private deposits, which in September amounted to 174 billion euros, go up. This, of course, is the result of the methodical and systematic work of the government, which has reduced taxes, reduced insurance contributions and at the same time at the same time adopted support measures to relieve all social groups from the consequences of the pandemic. The New Democracy policy prioritises development for the overall improvement of the quality of life of citizens, always with respect for everyone's rights. We are shaping a state with a view to the future, a state that serves the citizen and promotes the public interest. That is precisely what today's bill is all about. Today we are reforming and modernising the organisation and operation of rural trade. Ladies and gentlemen, the foundation of the people's markets has been embraced by the entire Greek society, as it offers consumers quality agricultural products and even at the best price. It is the institution that enables the producer to make direct contact with the consumer without intermediate stages. So the bill we are voting on today supports the people's markets, supports the thousands of producers active in them and ultimately supports consumers themselves. It is not possible for markets to operate without a regulatory framework. There can be no day-to-day checks. We regulate organisational and auditing powers and put order on the people's markets. Improve safety and hygiene conditions. With the application e-Consumer we digitize the procedures and inform the citizen. Do not worry professionals about the functioning of this new system, as there will also be care and sufficient time to prepare them through European programmes. The existing authorisations retain all their rights, power and mode of transfer. We are strengthening equality and transparency. The vacant posts will be awarded on specific social criteria twice a year, and will be published in advance in the "DENMARK". Through an integrated digital system we proceed to an electronic recording of all popular markets and empty positions per region. But that's not all we live in. We are also establishing standard popular markets, we are modernising the framework for the renewal, transfer, sale, loss and change of license and position, as well as for the planning of open-air organised markets. We also support the new forms of markets that are growing and growing in our everyday lives. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to today's bill, after exhaustive dialogue with all the stakeholders, I fully understand the insecurity brought to us by the representatives and producers and professionals. It is expected that every time a new bill comes, a change in the legislative framework, there will be a reasonable doubt as to how it will be implemented in practice. However, I too would like to assure and reassure producers and all market professionals, as we modernise and upgrade the institution, that we ensure the public interest in the interests of professionals and consumers, that in no case is open markets privatised, private companies entered and the positions of producers and professional licences are not affected. There is nothing to do with the popularity of the markets. The regions and municipalities will be adapted to the new data without any problem at all. The government is here to adopt all the regulatory acts provided for, the ministerial decisions necessary to better implement the new law and the framework. And all of us are here to legislate in the immediate future and whatever else it takes. For these reasons, ladies and gentlemen, I urge you to vote in favour of the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u23	Mr Skouriakos was right, because when he is two of the same party and there is a Member of the Anti-Population, he intervenes. I therefore apologise. Mr Skourikos has the floor, and then Mrs Zacharakis will speak for three minutes, in order to present the part concerning the amendment, to which Mr Placiotakis referred.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the new Republic's rapporteur for this bill has chosen the voyage of the people's markets and told us that it is an institution that needs to be reformed. We imagined it would have brought something that would be promotional and boosting to the core cell of the people's markets. Unfortunately, he brought a bill that destroys this cell of popular markets. You celebrate because you withdraw your original proposal and celebrate because what you brought is less evil than the previous one. Let me note that the current framework is Law 4499/2017, the law of SYRIZA that has also been passed by the New Democracy. The government, with this bill, comes to prove once again to all of us that the main core of its policy of action is to hit the cell of agricultural production in this country, which is the people's markets and to turn them into something else that is nowhere else in the world. I hear colleagues in the Coupling House defend the bill and I think they're talking about another bill really. You hand over the country's outdoor trade to the great economic interests, as you do at every opportunity in every bill you bring here. It is no coincidence that at the meeting of the Committee on Production and Trade, with the exception of a few very well-known exceptions to all of us, the vast majority of the bodies opposed this bill, which you come here and say 'we do it for producers to strengthen them'. They disagreed and told you. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government, in the pandemic and the wave of accuracy, in other words at the most inappropriate time, has chosen to dismantle the historical and social role of the people's markets and to support households with cheap products, fresh and quality. The Government of New Democracy displaces producers from the people's markets. Say it. Admit it. And don't come here and say it strengthens them. It displaces producers, directing consumers to large food shops. The existing institutional framework is fading out, and instead of a licence, there is a place now that someone gets it by competition. That is to say, the folk's licence, which is the core of the operation of the markets, is being abolished. It sets criteria that are equivalent to actual glue for positions: diplomas, age, number of children. In other words, we are looking for graduates of multitude and perhaps doctorate, leading to unemployment and homeless producers, farmers and sellers. It excludes representatives of producers and retailers from decision-making and for matters relating to them. The Memorandum of Democracy and this, known in the life and state of that government. It dissolves the consumer markets, since Article 37 of Law 4499/2017 is abolished without any justification, as I have said before. These markets have been involving economists, processors and a direct relationship has already been built for several years with consumers, who can find a wide variety of low-price products, avoiding intermediaries, exploiting producers' troubles and consumers' balconies. These markets are ringing. So let us recall that their action is not beginning since 2017, when the consumer markets were institutionalised, but since 2012, ladies and gentlemen, at the beginning of the economic crisis, when, in cooperation with citizens, the local markets were created without intermediaries, strengthening a great movement of solidarity in the majority of the municipalities and supporting with huge amounts of food social groceries of the municipalities, the masses of the churches, the structures of solidarity, to cope with the economic tolerance of the Greek society. The SYRIZA was bravely supported in these actions. Here you will be right to say "That's why it's because of SYRIZA," but it's not of interest to you. That is why these markets are the only ones whose producers, ladies and gentlemen of the Com munity, were excluded from the government support measures, due to social distance. In shops and big supermarkets, metro and elsewhere, it seems that all the measures were being observed. Ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, this law is run by a number of sanctions to which the punishment against non-preferentials who operate on the people's markets is being exhausted. The suspension of a licence provided for in a number of infringements is in effect a removal, provided that the suspension is lifted is that the position which cannot be ensured is re-established in a reasonable time. At the same time as Article 6, but also in its combination with Article 11, one key element is de facto abolished: the folk's permission. The producer will no longer have a licence, he will have a seat. So if a producer has exhausted its production until it has lost its place and license. We are therefore sending them out of the open market, preparing for the advent of large-scale dealers and intermediaries. There are other signs of traps. For example, if someone forgets within a year two proofs, no matter how much, loses the license. This is a matter of equality, equality and constitutionality. With two proofs within a year, do you deprive any other business of a supermarket? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, in Eastern Attica, where I am active politically, producers and retailers are at despair, at the place of the Mediterranean, at Marathon, in the north-east Atlantic. But we're not surprised about the analgesia of the bill you brought for vote. You've been over the classics of neoliberalism. You are claiming world patents of vengeance to the middle-class, farmers and the people. But you were electorally speaking. And since we're here at the Ministry of Mr. Georgiades, I would remind you that one of the many lies you told the Greek people to guard the authority was that in a week the bulldozers would enter the Greek. It's been a hundred and twenty weeks, Minister, a time when you don't say it a little, but you think people will listen to you and even be convinced of such fat things. Obviously we are voting against the bill and when in the next government SYRIZA will be the main force, this law will be abolished. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u25	The Foreign Minister, Mrs Zacharakis, has the floor on the subject of the amendment for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u26	Thank you very much, Mr President. We are now bringing an amendment so that we can facilitate the retraining and retraining programmes which the Ministry of Tourism is doing every year. I would like to tell you that it is particularly important to be able to exploit the people we hire for eight months during their own course there. I remind you of what these programmes are. These were introduced by Law No. 1077/1980, they are made every year, they can start at some point until 16 October and last until 30 June. But many times administrative obligations to enable and to end administrative work on the existing ones, but also to plan for the next, require that these people be able to do all of their eight-month presence as IMPORTs. So we are bringing this amendment today so that we can facilitate actions, such as payroll payments, rents, suppliers, cooperation with the OAED to repay the beneficiaries participating in the programme and, of course, a large number of administrative procedures for preparing, as I have said, the programme for next year. This provision provides for the permanent possibility with a documented recommendation from the competent authority, for workers with fixed-term contracts in the retraining departments to complete the prescribed eight-month period and we ask the Greek Parliament to accept it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u27	We continue with our colleague from SYRIZA, Ms. Hara Kafantaris.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. One comment will only be made on what we have heard since the morning and by a member of the Co-population, with many admonitions, both to SYRIZA and to Opposition. He says we should find a common language - he urged us - to deal with pandemic. How hypocritical is this on the part of the government as a whole when for the third time Alexis Tsipras' proposal for a committee of common acceptance scientists is rejected to manage the issue of pandemic? The hypocrisy goes and comes and that is not good at all when it is heard within Parliament. The bill now is a tombstone in the popular institution of the people's markets. Tombstone in an unmediated institution between consumers and producers and small dealers for fresh and cheap product. It is an institution with about ninety-two years history, which supported very difficult times in society. You, gentlemen of the government, call it reform, but everyone knows what the reforms of the New Democracy and the Mitsotakis Government are. Everyone is afraid when they hear reform and modernisation. Why did you also call the privatisation of the insurance system, reform you also said changes to labour, reform to the energy market, when we now have a public social asset, such as energy, with the main pillar of PPC to date, privatize it, and so on. So, reform, you also call this draft law. What I would like to stress, however, is that it is not just those interested, whether producers or small traders, their federations throughout Greece, the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, the parties to counter-population. They are your own people, they are also the local government that raises issues for this draft law and we must not forget that, as are the statements made by the Director of Central Macedonia and the Region of Attica. Everyone opposes what you are going to do, but you seem determined to move on. Even government MPs in their place in committees raised some objections to some issues. But you go ahead, why is your goal? The Mitsotakis Government serves great private interests. What is social is something that disturbs you is contrary to your ideological policy. You have tried all this time to break down the struggle of the associations concerned, federations throughout Greece, but you have not succeeded, the struggle continues. Because I will say this: no one denies that there are problems in the functioning of the people's markets. But there is the law of SYRIZA, Law 4499/2017. They may need some changes. Make these changes. Do not change the philosophy of the people's markets as a whole. You're talking about sixteen ministerial decisions. You allegedly took some arrangements back in this eight-month period of negotiations, but with these sixteen ministerial decisions, which are provided for in the draft law, each minister can take things into his own action, always serving - I am talking about the Mitsotakis Government - great private interests. You gradually dismantle the producers from the people's markets, effectively abolishing the 50-50 producers and small traders, also with Law 4499/2017, a law that was a product of substantial consultation. Because for us, for the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, the people's markets, apart from having a social character, believe that rural trade is something very important, it is a subset of trade, the people employed in it are decent people, they are people working in difficult conditions and they must be treated accordingly. You have an essentially punishing attitude and with the fines, which you enter into this draft law. There is also no - what has been mentioned by many - license, but there is a place. Of course, the qualifications are very debated, those criteria you set out. You're talking about doctoral, postgraduate, etc. And I come and say, are these the many and well-paid posts that Mr Mitsotakis was calling for election in our country to come to the country's governance? You demand producers - another issue - from people of hard work, the field, the primary production, each having an individual accountant every day so that he can enter the system and state his product and what he will sell and all that. Also important are you effectively removing their involvement in decision-making, when the accuracy is scanning, when electricity prices go uncontrolled and the simple consumer begins to see it now and with the accounts that come, when climate change is a great risk. Let us wish on Saturday in Glasgow, which is now being held by COP26, and I will be present with a colleague from the majority, President and Vice-President of the Committee on the Environment, that some concrete measures will be taken because the risk is great. At a time when climate change affects the primary sector, instead of actually taking support measures for producers, relief measures, if you would like, and economically, which exists, not only in fuel, but in farmland and everywhere, you also come to this institution of the people's markets, which the producer can offer, you actually beat it, I would say, if all that is being implemented at the expense of the producers, but not only. It is also at the expense of consumers, because the consumer wants cheap, fresh product essentially. And on the basis of polls consumers embrace the institutions of the people's markets. Of course, it is also a very important issue that you are abolishing the producer markets, which in the years of the crisis and the economic crisis - I hope we will not again live up to this level of economic crisis that we have experienced in recent years with the current government, since the decade of the crisis was disastrous for everyone - they have offered a great deal to social and Greek society. That's what you want to do. But let me close by saying that you do not want democracy, because the amendment that you bring about the elections and the electoral system to the Greek police and their trade unions shows your perception. Years struggles by workers in the Security Body, which we are dealing with as workers with rights, will also be abolished by changing the electoral law and reintroducing the majority system. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u29	The President of the Greek Solution Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by reminding you of something that the Greek Government is going through. I think the bill is as usual and at the wrong time. Regardless of intent, because you know the intentions often are broken with roses and beautiful flowers, but the result is criminal. We have an energy crisis that is suffering. We have a terrible price rise which the citizens are facing. Without a plan, without predicting you bring a bill that actually creates more problems than it solves. I will give an example, and I do not care if some ministers in the New Democracy are disturbed. The only thing that concerns this government - and I say it with pain of soul and grief - is the division of the Greek people, is the tactics of the Anglo-Saxon "divides and reigns". What did they do? The Minister has a best friend who plays it, who defines himself, a representative of the populaces, a friend of the Minister, that is to say, has a decayer next to him, but real producers are not really represented. You know, what you do not understand, the crime that has been committed in the last 20 years in the Greek economy is self-evident: the Greek economy has been based on small shops, small and medium-sized businesses and small shops. To serve the supermarkets, ovens are closed. To serve the supermarket chains, the neighborhood fisherman closed. In order to accommodate, settle our supermarket friends, shut down the grocery stores, shut down the meat shops and licensed the big stores, the supermarkets, which are seven, eight of your best friends - it also appeared from the latest developments with Masutis, that many of them are your friends, and I say it with soul pain - that you closed the small stores and drove them all into the supermarkets, manuscripts, meat shops, fish shops, and supermarkets. That is not the service of the citizens, that is the service of the oligarchs and the supermarkets. That's the truth, that's the reality. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'll accept that you did it because the supermarkets have to have better cigarettes, etc., I understand, we have a free market. Have you ever checked these corporations, their multinationals, their prices? It has gone to a supermarket, to LIDL, I say, of German interests, which is liable not to tell you how, in the parent company in Germany, they take the money from here and send it back. Product Greek in German supermarket cheaper by 30% than the Greek, the same delegation, the same chain, the 'LIDL'. Have you ever done a check? Never, never real control. And I say it with soul pain. What does the People's Markets Bill say? The seats say, first by means of a proclamation. In other words, leave will be granted without a vacancy, they will wait when they will empty a post to give a second place. The Minister will decide, Caesar, the great minister, who may be a lawyer, may be a doctor, may be anything other than a businessman or a producer - I do not know what he is doing - to decide on the people's neighborhood in Upper Katomeri, Drama, in Doxato. I'm telling the Minister. Yes, sir. How and what kinds will they sell, the Minister decides. So we have a new overconcentration and a rhysphetological process, don't be fooled. People are a big store. We know how the permits from the counties, regions and so on are being granted. That's the reality. So instead of breaking the abscess and supporting the producer, we create the ganger in the mechanism. Why? Because we're incapable of giving the solution. How will 50-50 be guaranteed a balance between producers and sellers? The producer should sell 50% of production on the basis of the OSE declaration. If there's a theory, he's gonna lose his license, yes or no? They're questions that don't answer. Producers, he says, should every morning declare quantity and prices, says, in the e-Consumer app, while large supermarkets, your best friends, who go to their openings, say nothing at all. So the big guy doesn't say anything and the little guy, who's gonna make 50-100 euros, if he makes it, must state everything. Mobilization, he says, fifteen molecules in university graduates and five molecules in high school graduates. Aren't you embarrassed? Are we studying our kids so we can make them lacquers? For me this profession is honorary, the producer must sell his products, not the mathematician, the physicist, the engineer - engineer. What are you doing? So you're bringing our kids back from abroad? Will you fill the folk with our children with monkey molecules? Because we know how the molecules come out and how they're done. So you turn the people's market into an outdoor shopping mall. The small farmers will actually appear. The term ‘producer’ is lost. Some in here know what a producer means, because you are from regions and provinces that produce products. The fines aren't exterminating. And I strongly heard the Minister say that fines are not exterminated. Does the Minister know what a thousand euros means? Does the Minister know what a fine of EUR 1,000 means? Does this Minister, who speaks with courage every day on the channels and is also exposed to New Democracy? You treat them like your intertwined friends, you consider them rich, oligarchs. Who? The populace, the people, the simple ones, the cut-off. Aren't we a little embarrassed? You are opening up - here is the worst - to private friends the management body, i.e. to fewer people. Don't you know what the street says? Let me tell you this, because I'm walking on the sidewalk, unlike some of your ministers. That you work for four-five oligarchs to control all popular markets in this country. This is the service of oligarchs. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What do we suggest? Because we have a schedule and a plan. Why don't you copy successful recipes? You don't have a plan. And you're popy paste plan proposed by the few-growers against the producers. Europe. What happens in Europe? Separation of producers and traders. For another trader, the airtighter, the minister's friend, and another producer who grows, motivates, orchestrates, freshens, sowings and collects the product. It's not the same thing. One is air-tight and air-treated, sells to raise the price of the product, because if it does 1 euro, the air-tight air-tighter takes it to 1,30 euros or 1,50 euros to make 30 minutes. Producer support in people's, not mediators. The middlemen have been your friends for decades and have been blackmailing the producer, the farmer, the fisherman, the man producing wealth in our country. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We have made another proposal, no one can hear us. At last, our country has a serious seed bank. Proposal for a European Parliament and Council directive on the approximation of the laws, regulations and administrative provisions of the Member States Do you know what the rise of pesticides means, do you realize that? It means that the cost of production is rising. Do you know that we don't have a real feed and pesticide industry in Greece? Because if we had our own domestics, we would retain prices and price restraint is not passed on to the product. That's what you don't understand, basics. That's why I'm telling you, the lawyer doesn't have a job in this business. It's amazing what's going on. And let me tell you something very simple: Since 1974 - really ask Mr Charakopoulos who is from Larissa - we will tell you the biggest problem of Greek agricultural production: There has been no restitution. The most important advantage of agriculture is reafforestation, which has never really been resurrected. Give incentives. I read in WASHINGTON POST yesterday that the United States' agricultural programme includes new robotic technologies with zero interest rates from banks to become the farmers of the fifth and sixth generation growers. Here we are in glasshouses of 1980. You go to the Netherlands, where I visited, and you really get a soul pain, because greenhouses in my village, Pella, are something with nylon plastics and there they have a hundred acres of hydroponic greenhouses, crops, etc. Where does this country compete when it has brains of the '70s and '80s and we go to 2030? How to compete with this economy? You tell me. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The main: water exploitation. There has never been a plan to exploit our waters, and the whole plan is to support the producer, the grower. Because the grower can give products. The airplane, supported by you, by the so-called merchants, is - I will say it directly - the carcinoma of the production of this place's wealth. It's not bad being a airplane, it's bad for a government to serve the airplane, not the producer. Eighth proposal: hitting imports of similar products. I've stressed it a thousand times. I was reading a report from the European Union, which says incredible things, unbelievable. I'm not saying you should just put duties, but do quality control. Go on, you can't put duties. Why? Because the New Democracy MEPs never signed a text against Turkey, which we brought to the European Parliament as a Greek solution. And we brought texts against the imports of like products from Turkey, which are competing with Greeks, which there is much lower production costs. What did the Greek Solution say? Come on, Mr. MEPs of SYRIZA, New Democracy, KINAL, to sign a text to ban the lettuce from coming here, to come the tomatoes here, to come the potato here, to come the product that is competitive with the Greek producer. And a reproach not to sign a MEP from the Greek people and say: 'Yes, I have to sign'. Instead, you are giving Turkey money to violate every law and every international law. Analyses of food and agricultural products from Turkey, European Union report: Approximately 25% of products were found to be inappropriate. So what are you doing as a state serious, my Minister? You're sending the operators to the border to check the quality of the product. Because 20% were contaminated with pesticides, thirteen banned substances in exports and the Greek Solution what has been saying for some time? No duties, you can't, incompetent, you don't want to. Quality control at the border so as not to pass any poisonous food and the Greek citizen consumes it. Just stuff. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And so you motivate Greek like products to exist for health reasons. I'm not just telling you about economics. We tell the Greek people that you can't wait for those who destroyed you to be the people who will save you. Who ruined you, Greek, and they look you in the eye? SYRIZA, KINAL, New Democracy. They destroyed both Greece and the Greek economy, and that is the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And that's what Aristophanes says to "Frogs" for some who know or do not know. Ladies and gentlemen, the next few months are crucial for both the economy and health, but especially for national issues. We are sure that Turkey will raise the tone. We have the illegal fishing in the northern Aegean, we have the dispatch of a warship and a threat to the sinking of the "NAUTICAL GEO" - yesterday this was done - the dispatch of warships to the EEZ of Cyprus and the blockade of any unnegotiable Greek position. Gentlemen of the New Democracy, you may have fooled your voters, but not us. You can't. But neither is history. Because it turns out that these great problems that the place is facing are very short and very small, this New Republic of the Gentile Karamanlis, to tell you everything. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And proof of what I'm saying is the official announcement of the Ministry of Foreign Affairs of the country and Greece after the fall of Zaev. Listen: Calls Skopje to respect the Prespecies. Your government calls on Skopje, VMRO, this Soviet militant party, to respect the shameful betrayal agreement of the Ambassadors. What a confrontation you are with the rallyings for Macedonia, all of which were there and honoring you! Only a hundred and sixty two violations we had from the Skopje side! So, what am I supposed to do? I'll tell you. It's not stupid, it's not stupid what you're doing. It is a permanently premeditated national crime what is being done for Macedonia! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And I'm going to tell you something else that I don't honor - and I'm going to say it in an elegant way - the Greek Prime Minister, because he's the Prime Minister of the country. He made a statement to the UN. He practically announced a change programme for the population in Greece. We are shrinking, the Prime Minister confirmed, but there are populations facing the challenge with organised immigration. Instead of looking to motivate Greek families, children to return from abroad, to give birth to Greek birds, to come back to where he deserves the nation, you enrich with all kinds of foreigners the Greek nation. Wrong, really, huge. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Some people want to take us to The Hague. I will tell you this: The Hague debate, ladies and gentlemen. Never. If you really want to talk, you're going to Hamburg. International maritime law is only discussed there. The Hague discusses individual issues. You're on your way to The Hague with SYRIZA's deal. Where'd Mr. Tsipras go, guys? Seven days missing man. Even October 28th didn't show up anywhere. Mrs Merkel came here, a statement I didn't see against her by Mr. Tsipras. The 'go back, Mrs Merkel', became 'come in, Mrs Merkel'. These look to the Greek people. The refluxes are shown, and if you like them sometimes, they'll be the same. I do not say to anyone 'go back'. But I say something very simple: If you want to see a visit to Greece, you will not come October 28th, which is a battle day against Nazism and fascism. It's over and out. That is our view. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So I say 'no The Hague'. I will read what Rumi, Persian poet, philosopher and priest, Persian, said, was none Greek - for the Turks of his time, in the 12th century C.E. And I want to ask you if you agree. He said, "For the construction, he should hire Roman workers, only Turks to demolition. The construction of the world is the property of the Romans." He's saying it. 'The disaster has been entrusted to the Turks'. With these Turks, will you go to The Hague, committing Greece with promises that can lead to national tragedies? Ladies and gentlemen, for us there is a great idea. I tell you honestly, and I sign it. The great idea really cannot be achieved at a moment, with a big or small step. It is an uprooting grief, which can last for both one and two and three and five and ten years. But if we cannot do and get there, at the top, this does not mean that the Greek Solution will give up the effort. Sometimes we will fall, sometimes we will rise - we are obliged - sometimes we move forward and others stand. The way that the Greek Solution has carved is the way of the Greek history of the nation and we will continue with it unbelievable. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We, as a Greek Solution, say 'no' on the false left. We say, however, 'no' and 'false right'. We behave Greek, patriotic and national. Only Greek, united, not splitting, like the New Democracy for Greece. We want to unite and not divide. We want to create a Greece with a nation that goes where he deserves and is the top. Nothing more and nothing less. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I will tell you just what Mr Papathanassis is aware of economics. There is no national sovereignty without economic independence. Understood. There isn't. Whoever you tell that to. The economically dependent has no dominance of himself. It's over and out. The more you borrow, the more you charge Greece -47 billion you chewed in two years and gave it from here and there - the more hope for national sovereignty is lost, the more Greeks enjoy the slavery to which you lead it. It's literally a crime you're committing. With borrowers you can't make a policy. I could give numbers. But I will tell you something very simple: EUROSTAT: One in three Greeks is poor and without a future. Five hundred thousand Greek birds don't have to eat. Do we understand that? I'm not talking about it. I give you the information you invoke many times to triumph because the economy is going well. Impossible, Mr. Hatzidakis says. Yesterday's statement. It will not succeed in dealing with the huge volume of outstanding pensions in the first half of the year. Our children are hungry. The pensioners are waiting to get their pensions paid and you're making fun of them. It cannot be tolerated, says Mr Hatzidakis, that the social budget will be exceeded. At EUR 6,400 is the average cost of each pension decision. That's why you are delaying giving the pensioner's right, his own pension, which worked, fought, produced, gave, contributed to the Greek economy. Because you are incapable and failed to produce wealth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] But you produce entrepreneurs and investors. A lot of businessmen like Latsi. The borrower who became an investor. Tell me which country in the world is a borrower of Greek people's money being an investor. Instead of bringing money to the country, it was borrowed by Greek banks to which Greeks are guaranteed to make the investment in Greek. Listen: He's not an investor. Oh, no. He's a real borrower. Well, he's probably a little bit of a bit of a bit of a job. He's smart, he's smart. He fooled you, you want? Did you work for him to get to work better? I don't know what you did. But I know that this story has a smell of scandal and I also have to say something very simple. See how incompetent the Greek Government is to defend national interests. In the last few days, Deutsche Welle has said that there is a war between Great Britain and France over tuna and fish in the Channel, and we let the Turk fish in the Greek Aegean, because we did not make fishing zones. Not the New Democracy! I will be allowed by any colleague from underneath not to make any sense about these matters, because I know them much better than him, because, when I said them since 2007, 2008, 2009, he was not even a MP. It is a request for any colleague, because I do not want to have a dialogue with anyone. Illegal fishing in Greece, because we don't have the twelve nautical miles, and it takes one of seven miles. The self-defense I tell you and the Channel are killed British for fishing and we let them fish and sell the fish in Greece as Turkish. This is our inability. Not to tell you the other thing, which investors you bring. The building of KERANI, 5.5m euros. Now listen to you, the New Democracy, the decent people. Tell me how sensible it is that EFKA sells 5.5 million euros in a fund and in seven to eight months, one year later the Ministry of Justice will buy it at 80 million. Tell me how honorable this is. What can I say out there, me in the world? I really think there are honourable Members. The Members of the New Democracy are honest people - to accept it - both SYRIZA and KINAL. What can I say about this thing? Are you suckers? Let me take it. I don't mean to say some people took it. So you're dangerous to rule the place. There's no other logic. There's no other logic! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And because time is pushing, I want to say something. Just a year ago the Greek Prime Minister told us that there was a mile left to finish with the coronary and pandemic with the vaccine. I'll tell you what. The mile is about eight hundred, IF. Maybe he meant a thousand miles, because one mile has a very long duration for a year, not a turtle would. Helmet to go, he'll do it - I know I - in a year, in ten months, in five months, in two months? I don't know. Listen, October 21, 2020. Ten deaths a day on a seven-day average. This year, with 63% of the vaccinated ones, we have thirty-five dead a day. Here's your failure. And we warned you all along. The vaccine is not 'all disease and all bullshit'. The vaccine is the insurance at any possible pandemic. When you're pandemic, it's not the vaccine, it's the medicine. I will tell you now, however, what are the main issues of your failure once again, to see that we are the only ones who have proposals. First, you ignore physical immunity against acquired immunity of the vaccine. Secondly, the hospitals - here's what they did - fired heroic nurses, their heroic doctors, fired them, suspended them when these hospitals are at risk of closure and the ICUs are not working properly. In Drama, in Serres, in Xanthi, in Komotini, the doctors are closing, you know? You're making mistakes. Third. Protection of the elderly. Thousands of times the mortality index between the elderly and the young. Fourth. Current vaccination efforts must focus on people over sixty years of age, not your experts who go and make trouble at a shop in New Democracy, and when they took a ham that the owner is a neo-democratic, they do so, see Vassilopoulos, to tell them all about it. Five. Close schools. Sweden kept schools open. He didn't make a lockdown. Sweden has not punished the businessman, it has not punished the restaurant, the small business, the big business, it is open and has fewer dead, without masks. Listen, no masks! It's criminally the mistakes you made in the course of the coronary. The result? Zero deaths of children from COVID in Sweden, lower risk to teachers. Six. Masks. Non-scientific evidence doesn't work for children. I'm telling you what scientists are saying now clearly and they're starting to call it other scientists. So the defence of the school closure, the biggest mistake you've ever made, I'll tell you now. I've got nieces. These kids have learned from a computer for a year and a half what they've learned. I'll tell you one thing. They didn't know anything. I'm telling you, as a father, as a parent, as a friend, they didn't learn anything about these kids, do you understand that? We've done them half-earthed our children and these kids are tomorrow in Greece, these children are tomorrow in the country, these children will reborne the place where you burn every day with criminal errors. I'm telling you with soul pain. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Listen. The tracking of contacts didn't stop COVID. You've flammed us at rapid test. You have flammed us in the precarious rapid test. Understood. They don't give safe conclusions. I've said it a thousand times, it's false to claim that rapid test provides security. I haven't said so, say the scientists we have in Greek Solution, the doctors, the experts. Ask your own experts too, rapid test does not provide security, leads to a desperate waste of resources. Do you know what it means to pay a worker three rapid test? Do you understand that at the expense of the Greek people? Why should the citizen pay, because he has not been vaccinated - he has this right, I can disagree with him, but it doesn't matter - three rapid test a week to go to work? Can I tell you why? To blackmail him, knee him, humiliate him and drive him, necessarily, to make the vaccine. Forced law or vaccination, it's fascist, authoritarian, authoritarian mood. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm not gonna tell you about Lockdowns, but I'm gonna close it down. For me and for us in the Greek Solution, democracy has really been at risk in recent months. And I mean that. For measures and decisions are taken in the absence of the Greek people, without anyone asking them. Democracy begins to escape from its framework when maturity does not exist. When the leader, the Minister, the leader of a group of people, is not mature. Responsibility then leaves those who exercise authority. Then it can be changed to true hell the impunity you do, for you have no responsibility for any law and any decision you make. You and your experts! To destroy democracy, gentlemen of the New Democracy, I must first - I shall say this directly - destroy the security that the citizen feels within the state itself, within the state itself. Democracy's gone. Safety is a matter for everyone, health security, civil safety and police. Mechanism to secure security is the police. And what did you do? Let me tell you. You criminalized the Greek police. You drove seven people, where? To Piraeus, to apologize for five days for whether or not they should have shot at the time they had a car on them. The result? I'll tell you now. Yesterday we had an incident with a dealer. I didn't see the fake lefters marching. I didn't see any of the fake lefters going to the Devera's father - just because he was Albanian the other driver - and told him, sir, he was running 30 kilometers in Thessaloniki, he went through three reds. He literally stepped on a kid who worked. But I didn't see any path by the humanist philanthropists. I didn't see that, why? When the Greek dies is less specific than when a Pakistani or an Afghan or a Roma dies? For us, human life doesn't enter the scale. Man is a man, understand it. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So here, gentlemen of the New Democracy, you forget something essential. Security is a source of attraction to investors. If there is no security in a country, nobody will invest. It is not just a social issue, it is also an economic one. It's not a simple matter. You do not provide - I repeat - security for the Greeks. Do you want examples? Now, listen to me close, because I'm under pressure from time. In Halkidiki, he raised the home of a citizen after a flood in 2019, in Olympiada Halkidiki, where you made a pit in your area, with the permission of "ELLINIKI CRYSOS", which fills with water and lowers the streams from above and parading houses. He has to tear it down by the law himself. Listen, Minister, he took it away from him. It's not his fault. The stream was small, built a hundred meters away from the stream, water fell, raised the house. He must now tear down the house alone at his own expense, or he will pay a fine. Where is the security that the citizen must feel that there will not be a river made by the "ELELANDIC CHRYSOS" or by someone else and will take the house away from him? And a loan he'll pay home doesn't have and he's tearing it down at his own expense. In order to obtain a hypothetical compensation from the state, it must produce a new building licence. That's what Africans see and they laugh at with our crap, without racism. I am talking about the state structure of Africa and those states. The security not provided to our fathers. They struggled, paid, and now paid constitutional cuts in public pensioners' gifts. I appeal to the Greek judges, to Greek justice because I consider them fair, stop yours being yours and the Greek people being cut apart. Stop, please, too, it's unfair to the retired and the small and medium-sized one. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because the previous decision of the Court of Auditors was different. It was unconstitutional. Now it's a constitutional. Today they beat pensioners, tomorrow in Easter gifts, Christmas, allowances. We have arrived, ladies and gentlemen, to close with the Greek police at the last point, police officers being accused in two cases, if they do something or if they don't do something. You have reached the New Democracy at this point. When they do something they apologise, if they don't do something, they're still apologizing. By watching the lever against the Greek Police, against our brothers, they are born questionably. When the civilians are in danger, won't they call the police anymore? Will the burglar be waiting to leave their house? The cops shouldn't pursue robbers and criminals in urban tissues? Questions: Shouldn't cops shoot if they see the car coming up against them and not stop? Even if they're in danger? They're gonna tell them, don't call the police if they're stealing you, or do you want to sleep a little bit? Mr Toskas said so in the past, so does the New Democracy, as the Prespecies Agreement. The state keeps going. Do what you sleep. Greece is the only country, friends and friends arrested policemen for self-defense. There's no other country, really, just us. They hide the faces of offenders, convicted criminals. Ten and twenty-nine lifespans are eighteen years and you go out in two and three years. For example, the dealer, where the driver was released. The driver who killed the dealer was released. Do you understand that? And no one protested. A human soul is gone. How did they let him go? If the return was made, if the develer was Pakistani, and the other driver was Greek, they would go to marches all day in Athens, Thessaloniki and province. Immunity is now a feature of Greek reality. The state police are considered consumable. For us, they're not consumable. For us, they are our friends, our brothers, our cousins, our relatives. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They won't be servicelessly decommissioned. They won't be inactive. They will not be indifferent and will be paid decently. For us, the rules of involvement must be in place for police officers. For us, the judicial authorities should not be involved in the self-defense of Greek police officers. We like these cops, and we want every police officer who protects the citizen, we consider him a hero with 700-800 euros. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, Greece is entering the era of the word'security'. The planet enters the era of the word'security', security for the present, economy and crime. But also for the future, identity, migration, food crisis. That's a climate change you call it. Halima's fairy tales I say, because the planet at regular intervals also had flooding and flooding and anomalism and sun, etc. Ask if you want geologists. Any ideas - bubbles are across the street, they'll blow up after each other. We are the solution to all these problems. The struggle for freedom, the struggle for democracy, does not end with one vote, it does not end with a course, it does not end with a lawsuit, it does not end with the vaccine. You have to fight for your freedom. You become a slave day after day, Greek, and you have to understand that you are the solution. You'll give it a solution. Break the chains and then Greece will be really free. Everything else is fairy tales. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u31	So we will now continue the list of speakers with these colleagues: Mr. Kalamatanos, Mr. Charakopoulos, Mrs. Auger, Mr. Gikas and Mr. Meikopoulou. Most of them are inside of the Hall. Here you go, Mr. Kalamatiane, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I begin with the amendment that came five days before the elections of the Federation of Police officials and was indeed a lightning bolt. What was so urgent that, five days before the election, you are bringing an amendment that changes the way in which you were elected and effectively abolishing the simple analogue? You have obviously tried to compromise the free and democratic viewpoint and position of the police. You have drunken the exclusion of any independent democratic voice that criticises and challenges political choices. What did one have to do with you in such a short time? And if it were not, unfortunately, the death of Fofi Gennimata, you would have voted now and the elections would have been done with this system. You've got to drop it. This amendment must be withdrawn because it impairs democracy in the trade unionisation of the Security Councils. I'm coming to the bill now. It is customary for this government to do black-white. When Mr Hatzidakis brought in the anti-corruption bill providing unpaid and cheap overtime and undermining protection from the termination of the contract of employment and much more, he said that he would bring it to protect the workers. Now, of course, the workers see what is going on in the workplace and how unworkable it is and how this bill is losing their jobs. When Mr Hatzidakis also brought in, the bill on liberalisation of the energy market said that he was doing it to protect consumers, that electricity prices would not go up and that everything would be fine. And now consumers see themselves what the results of this policy, these choices. You're doing the same now. You say that you are bringing a bill that is in the interests of producers and consumers. Is this the case? No, the opposite. Once again close your eyes in front of the needs of the large social majority. Once again you choose to stand up to the people of the labour and partition. You're actually pulling the rug under your feet. You are not interested in being in the pandemic and its economic consequences. You don't care that accuracy is crushing households and businesses. You continue your work unreasonable. With this bill, you are, in essence, seeking to declining and extinguish the people's markets. You are seeking to undermine an institution that operates in positive - positive - results for ninety-three years. An institution created to enable consumers to have access to domestic, quality, cheap, fresh products. An institution that operates to bring consumers and producers into contact and creates a relationship of trust between them. You do not care that consumers are currently suffocating. You do not care that producers see their products either left unintentionally rotting in the fields or being forced to sell their products at very low prices, because it has costly raised the cost of production - you know that, ladies and gentlemen - and they have a unique way out of the people's markets to sell and live their families. So you're cutting them off with this bill and that way out. You want to make them professional. And in order to welcome them in this sense and in professionalism you anticipate large and strict fines, withdrawals of licences and changes in the definition of the concept of folk leave. Your purpose is not to solve problems. On the contrary, yes. You create more, much more. This was almost all the institutions observed. The vast majority of the bodies involved in the debate in the committees stressed this. But you stand against them, you don't listen to them, you don't listen to us, wholehearted the opposition, but you don't listen to yours. Did you read, Minister, the letter from the Committee of the Regions? Mr. Patoulis, Mr. Djitzkostas, it's yours, they said this bill is inapplicable and it's also in the wrong direction. You don't hear them, do you? And I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, many of you have made contacts and contacts - I know, at least from my place - with representatives of the people's market organizations and producers. What are you telling them there? That's a great piece of legislation. Is that what you're telling them? We have a roll-call vote, so I'll see what you do. So you do not hesitate to dismantle the existing institutional framework. Remove the license for folklorics now there will be a seat and this place will be obtained by competition. But you are also creating isology issues in relation to housed trade. If a salesman, with the bill that you bring, doesn't cut three evidence, loses his place, so basically his license. Is this planned for housed trade? Oh, no. Two yards and two weights, that is. But you also anticipate other unfavourable obligations for sellers. You have them to register electronically the prices of their products. Is this happening anywhere else? Oh, no. Only for companies that have a huge turnover, over 90,000,000 euros. That is to say, it applies to people who have more than EUR 90,000 000 for producers and to those who have more than EUR 90,000. You're helping them with that. Yes, sir! If they do not cover a certain percentage of sale, they lose their place and license. That's for their benefit, obviously, isn't it? You also leave too many ambiguities and questions. What about the end of the position? Is it gonna be a daytime? Will it be six months? Will it be annual? And this will be regulated by ministerial decision, as will many others. You are also abolishing consumer markets. What happened? What changed since 2017? You supported this institution. Many of you have spoken in favour of the institution, that it is a good institution, that it promotes consumer consciousness and the solidarity economy, that it creates more favourable conditions for small producers and small processors. That's what you said then. What's changed now? You haven't explained. With an article you're abolishing the institution. Why? It is clear that the bill you bring is a force for the functioning of the people's markets. It provides for a multitude of ministerial decisions that will regulate almost everything, even for species to be sold to the people. For the first time comes a bill of popularity and does not describe the items sold on the popular markets. First time! The Minister will decide how the people's markets will function, how the licensing procedure, the permit documents, the notices that will come out, almost everything. All the Minister! So you are creating a gray, blurred and opaque framework. It's for granted. And what are you doing? You are basically preparing popular markets without producers. You are preparing the dominance of intermediaries, franchises, chains, major economic interests in the area. You want to fly out to the producers and the result will be the biggest for consumers, but also the hostage for the producers. It'll be the ravage of the great economic interests. So, obviously, you understand the improvement and modernisation of the people. Instead of strengthening the producers in such difficult conditions to have an income to live their families, you even lead to a loss of their shrinked and small income. Once again, then, you are opposed to a large social majority. The world of work, however, will give an opportunity in its decision to progressive governance, which will also abolish this anti-social law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Now Mr Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the Larissa of the New Democracy, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the political leaders have the opportunity to use the opportunity provided by the Rules of Procedure to intervene on the bill...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u35	The Rules of Procedure do not provide them. It's become customary. The Rules of Procedure do not provide such a possibility.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u36	Indeed, it has become customary and speak of all diseases and all the treatment they propose to deal with them. We parliamentarians do not have this luxury of wasting the seven-minute period that the Rules give us speaking about differentiated issues to the bill. That is why I will not respond to the many things that the Chief of Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, has done in a skilled way. Ladies and gentlemen, the people's markets in our country are an institution that lasts in time and in residential, social and purchasing changes because of their most popular character. Bearing in mind the huge changes that have taken place over the last few decades with the creation of stores, supermarkets, supermarkets and all kinds of places that offer products to the consumer, the people's market has kept its own multi-purpose purchasing audience constant. This is the case, firstly, because the consumer finds products which come directly from the field, from the garden. He often has the producer himself. It is not at the end of a long and impersonal purchasing chain. This has, among other things, a deep human dimension, the directness of the buyer with the seller and producer and the building of relationships of confidence. Of course, a key factor in the sustainability of the people's markets over time is the availability of products at affordable prices for all the suitcases. The consumer has the opportunity to buy directly from the producer at low prices which are not increased by the mediation of many intermediaries. Ladies and gentlemen, after almost a century of life, the institutions of the people's markets need modernization and harmonisation with the needs of the times, with the main aim of better and more quality consumer service. In participating, Mr President, actively in the discussion and preparation of the bill in the Standing Committee on Production and Trade, following the cooperation I had with the President and Secretary-General of the Federation of the People's Markets of Thessaly, Mr Apostolos Chacanika and Mr Vassilis Ligoudi and the President of the Producers of Larisa Prefecture, I would like to welcome the constructive legislative process, a procedure initiated by the majority rapporteur, Mr Stratos Simopoulos, and to whom I have also tried to contribute by making creative proposals, as well as by a number of colleagues in the Co-operativeism. It is to the credit of the present Minister for Development, Mr Georgiadis, that he does not claim infallibility, but on the contrary, already from the first meetings in the committee he has announced that it accepts a series of changes that are moving in the right direction. Ladies and gentlemen, the aim is to make the rural trade law more operational. We have asked - and it was accepted - that the permits should be valid for producers of five years, as for professionals. We have called - and it was accepted - for existing licences not to be put in a contract notice so that producers are not in danger of being on the road by losing positions they have had in years. We had requested - and it was accepted - that the sale of at least 50% of production resulting from the processing of CSCE data should not be necessary when plant production is affected by external factors. The quantities of products to be sold shall be declared by means of a responsible declaration from the producer. Minister, following on from this creative exchange of views which is, I would say, a guide to good legislation, together with the satisfaction of the representatives of the producers of Thessaly for the changes that have taken place, I would like to add a few remarks aimed at making them more realistic and at the same time applicable in the province. I also entrepreneured the Production Commission for the difficulties of updating the digital platform e - Consumer of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection by elderly producers who are not familiar with new technologies. In addition, this information in the provincial cities, where there is no other popular market on the same day, does not offer any practical price comparisons. Therefore, if it is useful for the consumer to send data on the starting price and the quantity available per product, it is in Athens, Thessaloniki, where more than one popular market is made on the same day. If you insist on this, at least let the capital and the co-chair start piloting, with appropriate preparation and information for producers and professional people's markets. In addition, there should be clarification as to who will be the body managing the people's markets in the province, where this role is proposed for the municipalities to take over. I would also ask you to see the possibility of producers being free to join neighbouring people if there is a temporary position until it is announced. Finally, as I have pointed out in committee, fines should be re-examined in the context of parity with housed trade and should not in any case be of an extermination nature. Mr President, the value of the people's markets is also further reflected in times of turbulence on the world markets, such as the one that we are going through due to the escalation of the energy costs of chained increases in product prices. If we believe in the usefulness of the institutions of the people's markets, then we must modernise it with a view to the transparency of trade and consumer safety. This objective is served by the government's legislative initiative. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, too. My colleague from SYRIZA, Mrs Theodora Augeris, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the majority - I do not see you as fellow Members of Parliament of the New Democracy - it is not enough to pooren all those whom your Prime Minister, your Chief, calls them "excellent" from their wages, it is not enough that you are constantly removing rights and provisions from the world of work, now you are putting in the eye and the producers and the people's market, bringing to Parliament a bill that you are not in a position to defend even yourself. This also appears to be the case in the low presence of Members of the government majority in the two days that the debate is taking place.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u39	Did you see the list of speakers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u40	You're alone and I understand your loneliness, Mr. Simopole. But I didn't interrupt you. And it is not just that you are on your own, you are on your own from society, and that seems to be what not only the producers and people of the people of the people's markets are, but it also appeared in the positions and opinions expressed in the committee. It seems, of course, too late and too late, in the response of your blue people, your own, the leaders of the regions of Central Macedonia and Attica. It is, of course, a little late, that all these objections had been discussed and heard when the bill was being consulted. Of course, it's not too late, it's never too late. Like also the corrections you make are an assumption of how clipping this piece of legislation and how against parliamentary morality and practice. Of course, you do not have much to say, and that also appeared in the positions of your Members. But if something really would be important to stand up and give us an answer, it is: For whom or for whom are you working, Minister? The answer's not going to be yours. It's, I think, a rhetorical question. You work for these few, the conscientious, whom you represent in every piece of legislation you bring to the plenary session of the Greek Parliament. The sure thing is that you are not working for the people of primary production, the countryside, the region, who have been in the middle of a pandemic for years and especially in the middle of a pandemic seeing their properties shrinking, their production being either indisposed or destroyed by weather phenomena and other natural disasters. What do these people and all those affected by your governmental reforms, as you used to pervert their words and meanings, but deregulations and conflicts? They see that the government of Mitsotakis and the state are unable to support them in fact. And they understand that this government will never eventually be able to recover and heal the financial losses that have been suffered all this time. If something unites all these people, it is that their government takes them as weak, small producers, small entrepreneurs, low-wage workers, people who go to the people's market to buy good and cheaper products, something that gains even greater value and importance especially in the midst of this severe wave of dishonestness and accuracy that we are going through. But the Mitsotakis government has proved a great deal that to the weak it only shows one hard person, the face of a power that feels the more authoritarian it becomes. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] And you know very well that the institution of the people's markets counts for more than nine decades. Your government not only dismantles this institution, but it literally equates it with the many obvious superpowers that it entrusts the Minister concerned through the tens of ministerial decisions. In fact, it is the Minister who entrusts himself with the privilege of legislating on his own for everything and everyone, without control, without accountability and legitimacy by Parliament. 'The people's market is me' we could say, thus paraphrasing this well-known phrase of the authoritarian ruler. Once again, then, there is no consultation. Once again the fate of thousands of people, producers and professionals of the people's markets in this regard is decided by a Minister. The granting and renewal of licences, the duration of the licences, the number of places on the outdoor markets of all types passes to the Minister concerned. Ladies and gentlemen of the government, is there any limit to turning all economic activities into a privileged field of customer relations and micropolitical services? The bill does not even regulate the basics for the operation of a popular market. What kinds will be sold and by whom will this be determined? By the Minister or by any other person who can intervene in a notice and make it as appropriate as the relevant grey ministerial decisions will be defined? The alleged resolution announced by the government majority regarding the existing rural market regulatory framework entails excluding producers from the public markets. I am not going to go into this or in relation to the statement of 50% of the quantity of product to the OSCE and all of this in relation to how licenses will be lost as a penalty, because there are many provisions which I understand have been cancelled before the debate in plenary is completed, but I am keeping the substance and spirit that has - and I have described it a moment ago - this piece of legislation. You are introducing a highly exhaustive framework of treatment in infringement cases, a manifestly unfair and mainly unequal way of dealing with similar cases. Two metres and ten weights are introduced, but they should apply when trade is open and others when it is housed. A characteristic example is that the government seeks to impose on each farmer and small trader an obligation to indicate on the Internet the starting price and the quantities of his product. With the bill, you are actually concentrating producers, even those who have for decades been bioaccumulating from the earth, that they will not lose their license. Their licenses, however, have an expiry date and you know that very well. Once they expire, the new framework will be applied, and so you will easily dismantle them. And then producers will only be forced to sell their products to wholesale beer at a degrading price. Of course, on the other hand, on the other hand, the middlemen and the big supermarkets will continue to dodge their profits. In conclusion, the government is reintroducing the Memorandum of Understanding to exterminate small businesses and, in general, small businesses, and this has been said many times in order to inspire it. He doesn't merge them just. They are dulled by the great puffy that has been set up in the midst of a pandemic and that will not even be left a doorman. Golden boy's life, the death of the merchant. The life of the business group, the death of the small seller. Divest the great public property, grabbing the small private property, in order to inspire the only project that the Mitsotakis Government has and which in one title is: "Some people on the one hand and the columns on the other. This plan is doomed to fail. Your plan is doomed. They are not called accidentally neither popular nor outdoors in these markets and they evaluate much more strictly than other markets in your markets, let alone when few prove to be small and the gulfs have lost the last of their patience. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, may I make an intervention?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u42	Here you go, Minister, but please a moment soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u43	First of all, I would like to say to my fellow Member that it is very bad to go up to the Step of the House and to blame your colleagues. You said that I was alone in the bill and that the New Democracy Parliamentary Group was absent. I do not have to submit the list of speakers in the minutes. Every two speakers one is New Democracy. So the whole reference, I'm sorry, is absolutely false.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u44	Minister, I'm sorry, but if you'd like to answer the bill, please. Why, look at this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u45	I answer exactly what I heard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u46	I would prefer what you said just now that your parliamentary representative might have said. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please be quiet and let the Minister complete to continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u47	Mr. President... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u48	Please, Mr. Haritsis, don't interrupt. Nothing is recorded in the Minutes. Well, Minister, please continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u49	First of all, I can speak from the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u50	Me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u51	You're going to ask why...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u52	Don't have this conversation. Please! You will be addressed to the Bureau. You're very welcome. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Please calm down. Minister, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u53	You will ask for the floor, Mr Colleague, and if the Bureau gives you the floor, you can obviously speak. As the parliamentary representative may, the Minister may. These are elementary in the parliamentary procedure. I wonder why you're shouting, honestly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u54	Minister, please, to the point.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u55	You underestimate your position!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u56	I wonder why you're shouting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u57	Minister, you have asked for the floor to speak on something that has been said about the bill. Complete this intervention to continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u58	But I'm talking about the bill. He mentioned...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u59	It's abusive!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u60	When you become Minister, Mr. Giannoulis, behave differently.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u61	Like you guys, I don't want to be!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u62	Come on, don't go on duty. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u63	Don't be! Be different from me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u64	Be more modest!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u65	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u66	Mr President, I would like the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u67	"When you become Minister," I say if the Greek people claim you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u68	But if you'll excuse me now? What's got into you? What's wrong with you? Let the Minister finish, say what he wants to say! You don't have the floor! Jesus, now! You have a parliamentary representative, raise your hand, ask for the floor, I will give it to him. Please. Please. Mr. Haritsis, tell your MPs to lower the tone. There can't be any such behavior. As you want to hear, like all Members, the ministers should be heard. We like it, we don't like it. Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u69	We like everyone to be heard, but everyone in turn and on time. It was also repeated by the previous speaker, but also by many speakers, that the whole - he says - is against the bill. It's completely false. The bill is the whole in favour. Even those who spoke against said: in total, we have no objection. We disagree with one, two, three issues. And, I repeat, three strikes were launched for this bill on popular markets. Your channels and friendly newspapers wrote "black flags in the people, the people are closed" and not a single folk in Greece closed. Not even one! So, obviously, the world of the people's markets is in favour, since it has not triggered a single people's market! So, all the rest you say is in your mind, it's not in the real world. That's what I've been telling you for so long.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u70	Have you been to folk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u71	As to the fact that we have made a lot of legislative improvements and a lot of changes in all my legislation since I became Minister - and for all the years that God has claimed me to be the same - I am the parliamentary process. I don't believe in ministerial infallibility. I like to hear the MPs and the House. Members of Parliament too have been right too many times in this particular process - I have proved it and I thank the colleagues of the New Democracy - many of their points made in the bill. So you continue to oppose a bill that does not exist. It is another bill that you have before you and you say the arguments from the first version. You haven't even read it! Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u72	Calm down, quiet. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u73	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u74	No, no. You have no say, Mr Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u75	There's staff, and I want to explain it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u76	I don't understand! Where is your parliamentary representative? Here comes your parliamentary representative. Mr. Haritsis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u77	Shouldn't I explain?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u78	Please sit down. You don't have the floor. I'm not giving you the floor. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA is preceded by the first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u79	But then I have to explain the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u80	Mr. Haritsis, please soon. I think one or two minutes is enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u81	Wait a minute, maybe less. Because the Minister said about the elementary, so the elementary, is that each parliamentary group has a parliamentary representative. The Minister cannot comment on every speech by an MEP. The Minister presents the bill and gives details of the bill. That's the Minister's job. The rest is undertaken by the Parliamentary Representatives. From that point on, with regard to who is opposed to the bill, let the Minister see the reactions that exist by the producers, let us see the reactions that exist by professionals, let us see the reactions that exist by the institutions of government, let us see the reactions that exist by the regional authorities and then, of course, let us also see the fact that - which is probably very rare for parliamentary time - we have three parliamentary groups, which have tabled a request for roll-call vote. Three have testified, not one, not only by SYRIZA, not just the Civic Opposition. The Change Movement and the Communist Party of Greece have tabled a request for a roll-call vote. I think that shows how isolated the government is in this bill. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u82	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u84	I, too, request the floor for an intervention, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u85	So let me put you in a row. Mr. Buquoir, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u86	I won't need a minute. Mr President, the honourable Member, the parliamentary representative of the Officerial Representation, and not much, has argued that this is the first time that three groups have tabled a request for a roll-call.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u87	I didn't say it was the first time. I said it was rare.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u88	Usually, the question is compact. Only recently have the opposition parties submitted requests for a roll-call vote. Of course, the Minister in the context of the parliamentary dialogue will respond to what is being heard in the Chamber. As long as opinions on the bill are heard, the Prime Minister may have the right to answer what is being said about the bill, which is carried out by Members. Members are the bodies that give their opinion on the draft law. We firmly believe that SYRIZA is looking to find an opposition field. He doesn't hear his political speech as much as he would like and he doesn't hear why he's not trustworthy. As far as the bill is concerned, our rapporteur...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u89	Good. Do you have anything to say about the bill right now in controversy with the other parties? Now do not go to questions of the functioning of the House and discuss a bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u90	Listen, Mr. President. They can't remove us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u91	Let's close it down here, please, so we can move on to the list. Another thirty-five and forty-five Members are waiting to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u92	I am sorry, Mr President, to conclude by saying that on the one hand SYRIZA is annoyed that the Minister is answering, on the other hand it is annoying that the Members of the House support the bill. Let them tell us what they want at last.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u93	All right, all right. Mr Katrin, you have the floor for a minute too, so we can continue the process.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u94	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will not comment on the obscurity transformation of the minister who said a few months ago that he will put a knife on the people's markets to come today to make changes to a bill that has been in the public debate for months. But you will allow me, Mr President, to comment on the fact that while the opposition parties have made concrete proposals on specific points and on specific points of disagreement, while the bodies at the hearing have said on what points they disagree, and indeed on what points they have emphasized, the Minister is insisting today that all of us who disagree and have specific proposals and say that any amendments he makes and make them after intervention by the Members of Parliament. If this is what the Minister considers to be respecting parliamentary dialogue or bodies, which rightly consider themselves to be affected by this bill, then obviously we are also reading different procedures and modes of operation within and outside Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u95	All right, all right, Mr. Catherine. Mr Gikas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u96	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u97	No, please. You don't have the floor. Mr Stefanos Gikas is called to Stepma from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u98	Mr President, you don't blame me. I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u99	I don't understand. What's the staff? Has anyone referred to you, Mr. Simopoulos? Did you hear your name? Please. Please. You don't have the floor. Come on, Mr. Gika.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u100	Mr President, should I not explain the staff under the Rules of Procedure?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u101	There's no staff! I'm telling you, we're done here!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u102	Inadmissible is what you're doing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u103	Please don't have the floor. Mr. Gika, come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u104	Mr President, I have to explain the staff, I don't want anything else. I am supported by the whole parliamentary group, not by me, the Minister and the government through me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u105	He was showing him, Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u106	Mr. Gika, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will take a minute to address the major disasters we had two weeks ago in Corfu from the 'Balos' premise, where dozens have not been destroyed, some of which have been completely destroyed, while many households have been flooded and destroyed. The damage to infrastructure networks is large, and the region and municipalities bring them up with figures of more than EUR 15 million. In this context, I would like to thank the Government, because so far three steps have come to the island, one of which was the Armed Forces, but I would also like to ask for Corfu to be included in the compensation system for arogi.gr and for the funds needed to be disbursed quickly in order to make the lifelong projects, because we are still in autumn, it has not been well in winter. I'm now entering the bill. Outdoor trade is an important and stable part of the market that Greek society trusts. Whether it is about the people's markets, Christmas and Easter markets or short-term markets or thematic markets, citizens continue to visit them and shop there. The particular form and characteristics of rural trade do not, however, constitute a cause for exclusion from modernisation and digitisation, which is now present in every area of our everyday lives. This would be at the expense of competitiveness, transparency and equal opportunities for those involved in rural trade. From the outset, people's markets have been at the heart of interest, with professionals in the area expressing some concerns and concerns. However, I am convinced that the only objective of the bill is to upgrade and modernise the institution, which, by introducing digital technology, will become more transparent and will gain direct contact with the consumer. In order to fulfil this objective, a new platform, the integrated information system “ADMINISTRATIVE MARKET”, in which the competent authorities, i.e. the municipalities, and in the case of Athens and Thessaloniki, include all the information concerning the outdoor markets, such as the decision to establish, repeal, move, rules of operation, topographic chart, licences and others. For the first time, full picture and full transparency are provided for all types of outdoor markets. This is a tool that will significantly support local government both in the exercise of its powers in relation to the coordination, organisation, operation and control of rural trade and as a whole. In addition, this system, the 'COMMUNITY MARKET', in the context of interoperability, is linked to the e-consumer platform, which, as we know, is visiting more than two hundred thousand citizens daily. The obligation of the producer and seller to introduce the starting price on a daily basis so that the consumer can compare prices, for example, in one area to compare the prices of supermarkets to the popular market and to choose the consumer where to shop. This is, therefore, a provision which is obviously in the interests of the consumer, while at the same time promoting healthy competition in the market, which benefits all the participants. The bill, except for regulatory, also has a strong social sign. In particular, it provides for the opening of gaps in outdoor markets by transparent procedures. It introduces moleculosis on the basis of social criteria, which provides for increased molecules for the multiples, the unemployed, the young people, and also for holders of higher education degrees relating precisely to this objective of primary production. Incentives are thus given to young people with relevant knowledge living in rural areas to stay in their place and to engage in the primary sector. We therefore support both the development of the primary sector and the young people seeking equal opportunities, transparent procedures and a perspective in order to deal with this, the primary sector. With regard to post notices, it should be stressed that these concern only vacant posts, while the activity of producers and sellers already have licences is not affected. However, the acquisition of a licence will now be linked to the position. The draft law also extends the possibility of transferring producer and seller licences and simplifying the conditions of the procedure. The final form of this bill is, in fact, a product of exhaustive dialogue between the leadership of the Ministry of Development and the relevant bodies. Many of the institutions' proposals have been incorporated and it has proved that the objections made by the Opposition, which once again insisted that the arrangements are to the detriment of professionals in the area, that the people's markets will be closed, that others will be privatized. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Your tolerance, Mr President, for a minute. Furthermore, the Minister - who is present - has fought during the lockdowns so that the people's markets remain open, and we must not forget that. It also incorporated further amendments to the text of the draft law after being drafted by our committee, including any amendments that are given sufficient time for the bodies and competent authorities to prepare for the proper implementation of the law, by transferring the date of entry into force of the arrangements on 1 February 2022. To conclude, this is a draft law that modernises the operation and organisation of rural trade, and I would say that it introduces us into the 21st century. The main concern is the creation of a framework that promotes healthy entrepreneurship and transparency, offers equal opportunities and serves the professional and consumer, and sets clear rules for compliance with laws. For all these reasons, of course we are voting in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u108	Good. Mr Meikopoulou Alexandros has the floor from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Meikopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u109	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are discussing the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment which fundamentally changes the institutional framework for the organisation and operation of rural trade and replaces the recent law, Law 4497/2017, although it was voted by a large majority and following substantial and productive dialogue with the institutions. Unfortunately, however, ladies and gentlemen, we cannot say the same thing about the bill that the government is calling us to vote today. The consultation was marked by preliminary drafts which differed from one another, coordinated efforts to target the dissident representatives and to separate producers from the sellers and professionals, but there were statements by the panic MPs of the New Democracy, which - to remind of - promised modifications or even, Mr Georgiadis and the slitting of the bill, when the world of their people's markets warned that the changes they bring will not be tolerated. Thus, the way of legislating tells a lot about the government's feasibility, as well as the fact that the ministry has been manoeuvring up until the last minute, with significant changes in the bill. It has - I think - value to see a little bit of history. From the first blueprint, the ministry has been cut, attempting a crash test, to see how far it can reach. It then withdrew the provisions on the participation of companies in the public markets and the auctioning of the positions of producers and sellers. Finally, we have come up with a bill that makes the foundations of the foundation of the people's markets, as we know it for so many years, closes the eye on the substance of the mediators and puts the direct and indisputable relationship between consumers and producers in the end. Are there any big losers? Of course. They are the small and medium-sized ones for which the people's markets are literally the last refuge in the uncontrolled price increase of basic goods and goods of primary concern. However, great losers are also small producers who, by losing their counter against the people's market, will give their products as much as the intermediary. But not to be fooled, ladies and gentlemen. It is no secret that the government has long given the slogan that in Greece it has no position, in essence, on the small one. The small businessman should be merged so that he does not close, the small producer should sell to the broker so that he can live. People's markets, indeed, have been hit by the pandemic. Most of all, however, they have been hit by governmental manipulations that have depleted their rigour in the measures they have implemented. To explain, in regions of the country, they have been closed for months, after a distance, with half the producers, and with a certain number of bags per bench, when in and out of the supermarket the inseparable one prevailed. And of course they haven't supported by the state all this time. People were disciplined so that the people's market would not close and stay without a piece of money. Finally, they recorded the largest drop in the value of the markets in the pandemic compared with other points of sale that were even housed. So the government wants to reform the institutions of the people's markets in the midst of a pandemic, in the midst of the accuracy of the consumer's income and increase production costs, and even after disastrous years of producers' harvest due to extreme weather conditions. For example, in Magnesia "ATHENA" destroyed 80% of production before the brown producers could collect the fruit, while the oil producers despite the continuing acarp, have not yet received compensation. In spite of the good and good intentions you claim to have the bill, we are essentially talking about a mixture of inappropriate and punishable provisions, wicked formalities that prepares the ground to eventually transform the country's popular markets into the outdoor supermarkets that the government sees. With Article 67, then, there are sixteen ministerial decisions whereby the Minister for Development will decide on critical issues of the people's markets, from authorisation, supporting documents and notices to which products will be sold. Every minister, in other words, will have superpowers and will also be able to change the framework for the operation of the markets by actually causing an intransigent alalum. In very simple terms, Article 67 hides an entire law within the law. At this point, I would also like to stress the provisions which provide for the suspension of authorisations for producers and sellers which are diffuse within the bill. We are talking here about a relentless hunt, as if the people's markets were the black hole in the economy. Indicatively, suspension of a licence if 50% of the declared production is not made available to the CRL via a folk, regardless of whether the cultivation went or did not go well. In 'and five' you improved it! Suspension of a licence if three tax proofs are not issued, irrespective of amount within the same year. Suspension of a licence if the producer does not have tax and insurance information at a time when small and medium-sized enterprises are drowning in debts and are struggling to meet their obligations. Yes, sir! However, Mr Georgiadis, you have not shown the same zeal in the fight against tax evasion and tax evasion through offshore companies. There the MEPs of the New Democracy voted "white" or were absent in the proposal for research after the revelations of the Pandora Papers, including two hundred and eighty-three cases of Greek companies. There you whistle indifferently! But you're chasing the receipt of a bag of apples or a parsley. You are, at the same time, creating obligations corresponding to those of the chains and the stores. In other words, think the producer should introduce in the morning to e-Consumer the starting price for products that will be placed on the popular market at 3.00' and 4.00' at dawn. While loading the products, they should enter and register data on the platform. There is also a problem with the possibility of converting producers' licences into professional licences. People's markets must remain popular and not be commercial. Why here are you trying to sideline the producers? I, ladies and gentlemen, understand that fellow Members of the New Democracy are really trying to defend a bill, but many, if not most, disagree and understand its wrong direction. What has happened to the New Democracy Parliamentary Group regarding this bill? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The Ministry, therefore, has not convinced either of its intentions or of the necessity of the bill or of the context in which it comes to the vote. So we have a difficult winter ahead of us. The pandemic brings with it a wave of precision, for which, of course, there have been signs since spring. So the doctrine, Mr Georgiadis, of self-regulation of the market is fundamentally shattered on the backs of the citizens who are now defenceless of greedy phenomena in essential species and market manipulation. There is a need for drastic measures here. It is not enough for these assurances that this is a transient phenomenon. Do you really want to correct pathogens in popular markets? Sit on the same table with operators for changes and improvements. What you're doing is experimentation. So do not experiment with an institution on the substance healthy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u110	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, the Minister asked the floor for an intervention in order to put forward legislative improvements. Here, Mr. Georgiadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. As I was committed to this House, I am tabling the legislative improvements. I am simply going to mention the most important ones, except for the usual phrases we say. Here we have put the part of the change in the OSE's obligation, that is 50% with the producer's statement on the sale. I say this because it has been heard many times by colleagues in the debate that the article is now changing and the procedure is doing so. I would like to say that this proposal came from both the Members of the New Democracy and as a formal proposal from the producers. So all the talk about producers I think is ending with this in terms of criticism of the bill. We have also put here that the bill will apply from 1 February 2022, as promised, Mr Simopoulos. However, all the other changes that we have made to the bill, as regards the change of sentences, regarding the five-year duration of the producer's licence to be treated like the trader, but also all the changes that we have heard during the debate in the committees, but also in the plenary which we committed to presenting on the legal improvements, are now being tabled with the end of my speech, so that Members can take them and see them, so that we do not keep saying the same, because it makes no sense, I repeat, to talk about something that is no longer there. Now, I would like to say that it is worth mentioning a legislative improvement that has been made in the amendment on the internal auditor. We have added not a certificate, but six different certificates, which can be the minimum for the internal auditor to have the right to do this work. This was followed by the debate which was also held yesterday, but also by the Chamber of Economic Affairs and, in general, by the debate before us. So we're tabling the legislative improvements to the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u112	I would ask that they be photographed and distributed to colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u113	And in order to answer and not to have unnecessarily conflicts between us, I say once again that, with these legislative improvements which we have just tabled in essence, only a request that has been put to us by the public debate has still not been accepted. It is the possibility of setting up independent legal persons in the local markets. I want to be clear about this, as far as the competence of the municipalities is concerned. We need to figure out a little what the problem is. If we were to write in general that people's market operators would be able to establish, they could, as was the proposal from the people's marketplace, set up an independent legal person, which would mean that every municipality of the country could establish a new company for the people's markets. As you can see, this would mean three hundred and fifty new potential legal persons. Those who have ruled in the country - I am referring to both SYRIZA and the Change Movement - understand that this is not possible. It would be an opening of a huge recruitment window and anything else, such as costs, costs and other things that cannot be done. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] At the request of the organisers of the people's markets, rather of the producers and traders, because this is their joint request, to transfer responsibility from the municipalities to the regions, namely that it should not be the municipalities, as today, on the people's markets, but the regions, I have explained from the outset that this could not be done. Firstly, we have the statement from the EIA, to which several of you have referred, with regard to legal persons, and the previous statement from the EIA that the regions have asked for responsibility for the people's markets, but we also have the CEDEFOP statement and a unanimous resolution from the CEDEFOP asking us not to take the power of the people's markets but to maintain it by the municipalities. You realise that going to open up a chapter of civil war between the municipalities and the regions on this issue would not be wise. And because I want to be honest, I recognise that the municipalities have competence too, they have a say on the people's markets. It concerns their citizens and you cannot deprive the mayor concerned of this possibility. I have not heard seriously from any party in this House that we should take responsibility from the municipalities, that is to say, to remove the existing competence from the municipalities. And SYRIZA's previous law gave the municipalities the power. So building three hundred and fifty independent legal persons is absolutely impossible. Here there was the counter-proposal that there should be only two in the two regions, where, on the basis of the previous law and the existing law, they are operators of popular markets. I am referring to the Region of Attica and the Region of Central Macedonia, which is also responsible for this. I must tell you that this is a conversation we are having with the Ministry of the Interior, which also has the institutional competence to do so. So far there has been no agreement of the Ministry of Interior on this. There are several objections. If he grows up in the future at some point, we can see it. At this stage, however, we must give the relevant directorates of the two regions the opportunity to continue to do their job, and here we are, if necessary, making a change, if, indeed, we see that it is not working. I am not saying that it is an absurd debate. The two would have a sense. For the three hundred and fifty, I don't even talk about it. However, I do not think we should stay so much in this regard. The bill has already met 99% of the demands of all the actors who heard in the room. I would like to say this once again because I have constantly heard criticism of the way we legislated on this bill. I will say that I am extremely proud of the way we legislated on this bill. I've been a Member for 15 years, Mr. Katrin, and you have been. Not fifteen, but enough. A bill that has changed so drastically from its original version to its final vote and the political leadership is ready to make changes to the substance, trying to correct and reconcile many conflicting views between them, I do not remember much. And I'm proud to be a Minister in such a bill. Now if you suggest that the bills should never be changed in the House, so the House should have a formal character, you will not find me in agreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u114	Good, Minister. You'll have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u115	On the other hand, I consider this House to be an important area of social and political dialogue and the area of legislation under the Constitution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u116	But all the MPs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u117	The government has the legislative initiative, but the parliament is legislating.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u118	Good, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u119	Many of the changes we have made, Mr Katrin - and I am closing, Mr President - have also been heard by opposition parties. So this criticism is a little unfair. On the substance, with the legislative improvements we have now tabled, almost everything that has been heard in the hearing as criticism of the bill has been lifted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u120	Mrs Sophia Sakova has the floor from Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u121	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for many months the government has presented various plans for the future, for the new framework for the organization and functioning of the people's markets. The bill entitled 'Reform and modernisation', etc., for rural trade and popular markets, is now coming. What we need, ladies and gentlemen, to keep is the word reform. The government otter is, in fact, reshaping the landscape, overthrowing the role of rural trade in the functioning of the market. The target is obvious. The reasons for the creation and existence of the people's market foundation are completely overthrown and the possibility of producers for their self-sufficient disposal of their produce and the direct relationship between producers and consumers. But above all, what you want to do is how it works, which has a regulatory effect on the whole market for the benefit of both parties. The aim is to stop the people's market from having its own autonomous function and role, to result in a simple expansion of the controlled system of the single market. That is why the system of supermarket intermediaries and cartels would be really annoying. It's annoying, the poor biopadder, the farmer and the back-end professional, and that's why he has to be missed, out of the way. After getting rid of him, then the famous market can no longer regulate itself undisturbed and fully control the coverage of the consumer needs of the social base. Here, then, is a glorious field for the so-called modernist zeal of neoliberalism. The government of Mr Mitsotakis makes another move towards the great business interests, another step in anti-social twists. Unprofessional, you say that the folkman will be left if there are two proofs of zarzaba of any value from that same state that lets offshore tax collectors perpetuate, hiding in its drawers the elbows and the lists of millions of tax evasion, which lets the internet multinationals operate with huge profits without tax. He will lose his profession if he fails to sell 50% of the declared production. If I heard correctly, Minister, you said you'd change it if I'm not mistaken. If you do not change it, however, Minister, rather than supporting the functioning of the people's market, I think that traders and producers are punished for the job. It will not yet be possible for the producer to pursue his profession if it does not have tax and insurance information. You ask him, the weak one, which you do not ask for from other commercial activities. Ladies and gentlemen, there is no need for any other proof of the feasibility of this bill. In the long-standing over ten years of crisis, with debts drowning all the small and medium-sized ones, their government is cutting their chance of recovering and even surviving. Perhaps it should not surprise us that in this bill too the government has this punishing logic against the weakest social strata. And, of course, liberal idealism is always present. You also want to impose uncontrolled competition on people, you are unambiguously supporting major interests, you are consciously reforming the framework, so that many producers and sellers can be excluded from the market, leading them to impoverishment and poverty. What is, first of all, the right of producers, that is to say, their participation in the people's, is transformed by the Government of New Democracy into a privilege, which, in fact, is personally awarded by the Minister himself. Article 67 of the bill constitutes a monument of abusive legalisation of the infamous "executive" state. Sixteen paragraphs depleting every detail in the functioning of the countryside by entrusting everything with ministerial decisions. In the case of waste, therefore, every concept of legal certainty and indeed every citizen's professional status and the potential for survival. Our party, Mera25, has been and will be at the side of the traders and producers of the people's markets and the whole social base of consumers who are tested in the conditions of the market you are imposing them. Close your eyes and your ears in the wave of riots that overturns the survival data to thousands of families and you are consciously abstaining from any material interference. For you are reached by communication acrobats, as if you can really convince the world that prices are the same as in 2019, as if people do not live the reality every day. So you want unequivocally to underestimate all those who are struggling to overcome the consequences of your policies. So we have another bill that turns society into a field of exercises of the ideological obsession of your Government, but also of political feasibility, another conscious anti-social bill, so antisocial that only society itself can overthrow it and overthrow it. And Merra25 will be there again with her. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u122	Thank you very much. Mr Dionysios has the floor now from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me before I begin my speech to refer to a comment made by his colleague, SYRIZA, who said that we should keep counting the attendances in Parliament. I think it is not right and fair to do so. You have done so not only yourself but many others too. I think this thing should stop sometime. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating today a bill by the Ministry of Development and Investment which seeks, through substantial provisions, the reorganisation of the people's markets with the aim of safeguarding the interests of both producers and sellers and consumers. I must stress that this bill has come to a debate in the committee responsible and now comes to a vote in the House after a number of months of consultation of the Ministry of Development with the producer bodies. In fact, until the last minute the Ministry of Development and the ministers have not ceased to prove their ears open and are constantly vigilant in order to hear every voice and discuss any sound criticism. Ladies and gentlemen, the main objective of the bill is to regenerate the people's markets through the real effort to strengthen them. At the same time, the glossary of the provisions which we are called upon to vote on today achieves, in a very good way, the full preservation of the character of the people's markets, as they know and support them for many decades. Moreover, those of us from the province are deeply aware not only of the importance of the people's markets in our daily lives, since that is where we can find excellent products of cheap quality, but also of the cultural value of rural trade. But just to see what this bill does. First of all, this draft law seeks to upgrade the level of the people's markets and adapt their functioning to the conditions and requirements of the modern market. In this context, for the first time, provisions such as those relating to the platform an integrated information system ‘ORDINATION MARKET’ are introduced, the provisions relating to the notices of positions on benches, the provisions relating to the relevant authorisations of producers and others. Besides, the 'e-consumer' system will be able to provide a large majority of the consumers who choose to do their shopping in the people's markets, to be informed directly and extremely easy about the prices of the products. In this way, consumers will have the opportunity to find out where they are selling cheaper products, especially in this period, which will be an important aid. Of course, the management of the relevant platform by producers is a stage in which producers will have the full support of the government, as well as all the time required to learn and bring it to fruition. As far as the provisions relating to the declarations of positions are concerned, we have to stress that the government's logic is precisely that we need to get a brake on shadow-consensuals, the so-called 'dalovers', on who will go back to where and how and how it will fit. There is also a need for transparency, equality and consolidation on this point too. Furthermore, as regards the moleculosis which has been discussed in an extensive manner, it should be clarified once again that the relevant provisions regulate cases where, in a popular market with specific positions, more applications have been made by producers. That is where any producer has fewer molecules, obviously not left out of the popular market, but will go to another market. Ladies and gentlemen, I have heard these days the criticism of the opposition on this issue and indeed without making any suggestions at all. There in Communism is not that you are not aware of the problems faced by rural trade. I'm sure you know them well. What is happening and it is truly sad is that you do not want to touch the issue in fear of political costs. It is not that your pain has caught you for people who are active in the people's markets and, in general, in outdoor trade. It is that for you, although this industry is moving forward, it goes forward, it becomes more profitable, if it manages to keep up with modern standards, then he will also turn your back. It will no longer be the producers and consumers of the people's markets who will listen to your propaganda. Ultimately, what are you suggesting? If you disagree on all this, why don't you change it for four and a half years when you ruled? And what do you want to say to us that, on your day, products have been musing them, and today, in fact, people on the people's markets are going bankrupt? Finally, with all the things you say, I believe nobody listens to you. On the contrary, through these arrangements and others that will come, the entire Greek society will witness the evolution of the next day's rural trade that we acted in looking forward, taking brave decisions and not thinking in terms of micropolitical terms. Through the reform that is currently being carried out by producers in the people's markets, they will have the opportunity to claim European programmes that will provide them with the necessary financial support to increase production of their products and improve their quality. In the face of all this, SYRIZA closes his eyes and in order to sell propaganda he has his MPs talking about allegedly extinction of the institution, closure of popular markets and other such nice chips that they can no longer convince themselves. Let us say once again that the people's markets are not privatised, they do not enter the public markets, they do not affect the professional licenses, they do not affect the positions of the producers who have a place. Ladies and gentlemen, by closing down to say that the bill we have in our hands is trying to raise the level of people's markets to the 21st century market, to give them the opportunity to make use of digital technology, to participate in European funding programmes, to give them the opportunity to improve their own facilities to give them the opportunity to gain better and direct access to their customers, to give them the opportunity to work transparently. After all, this is a draft law at the heart of which is to safeguard the interests of both producers and sellers and consumers. We must not forget that this government has fought at the most difficult phase of the pandemic in order to keep the people's markets open and fully operational. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Now Mrs Catherine Papanatsiou has the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Sedetakis, Mr. Sarakiotis, Mrs. Likoli, Mr. Heimaras will be followed. Ms. Papanaceu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Minister, ladies and gentlemen, what we have noticed with the legislator's analysis of them is that you are basically not changing the core of the bill, you are simply correcting your own mistakes and imperfections in the bill. It appeared from the first facts of this government that its intention to attack whatever is social. In the face of our eyes, a gradual layout policy is being developed in all social structures and acquired not only in the period of post-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-municipalities, but also by this bill already since the time of Eleftherios Venizelos. It is a cynical government that its ministers do not hesitate to go out on the canals and state unregulatedly that they are tired of dealing with the concerns of society, a government which stumbles, targetes and abuses the citizens, at the same time as its bills pull the carpet under the feet of the weaker and medium-sized strata. This is a government that has turned the legislative process into a rag. Today comes a bill whose main points you will legislate with ministerial decisions in the future. Seventeen ministerial decisions are provided for in this bill. What is the value of the parliamentary procedure for you? I'd say nothing. It holds you an unprecedented courage. It is courageous at a time when consumers are experiencing a huge increase in prices in basic species, in agricultural products, in foodstuffs, in the government to extinguish the institution of the people's markets. It is courageous for producers to see the cost of increasing from electricity to oil on a daily basis, to face the pandemic, the weather that destroys their lives and the government to punish them by depriving them of their positions on the people. It is courageous to exclude producers' and retailers' representatives from taking decisions on issues which concern them, thus limiting the quinturism of democracy. A ninety-three-year-old institution that works for the benefit of consumers and small producers, an unmediated transaction, at no mediator's cost, is now being altered on the initiative of the New Democracy. The government majority tells us that it wants to encourage producers to become professionals and suggests that tax violations are a problem in people. And what does it propose as a solution? Withdrawal of licences. A characteristic example is the withdrawal of the licence for a people's market for the purpose of not issuing two proofs, irrespective of the amount. In other words, the non-issuance of a value of EUR 1 for parsley and EUR 2 for the people will lead to a suspension of the licence and, therefore, unemployment. This, Minister, is not a practice to combat tax evasion. That's a conviction. And in any case, in 2017 with Law 4497, a legal framework was established, which you also voted for, gentlemen of the New Democracy, unless they had made you vote for, and it was not your personal choice, recognizing that it puts a class on the popular markets. What's changing now? Do you abolish him? What is this undeniable need for you to bring about a bill of dismantling the people's market? How does this bill contribute to addressing the accuracy that consumers experience on a daily basis? And finally answer us, do you have any contact with society and its needs? Do you know anything about rural activity, about small and medium-sized farmers of the people? Only a government that does not know from agricultural production, its complexity and the vulnerability to weather conditions, the extreme weather conditions that are growing, in the destructive pathogens, would bring such a strict framework for obtaining permission. Only those who have nothing to do with fighting and working in the countryside could think that the producer who goes to the evening or dawns to collect his products to make them available to the people's market has the time and ability to inform the e-consumer at the same time, the obligation to have large businesses and chains, precisely because they have many and skilled employees. You are establishing a moleculosis criterion for obtaining a licence for a producer's position on the people's markets to hold a tertiary degree. Members of the Government, children who are involved in agricultural production after their higher education need first of all support and support so that, with their specific knowledge of upgrading, modernise existing crops and agricultural production, they can create innovative and innovative rural enterprises. Certainly the last thing they need is to compete with other colleagues with fewer knowledge and opportunities for a place on the people's markets. Can you strengthen the newly studied generation to admire the Greek countryside? That's the bet. It is clear, however, that you do not care about the future of agricultural production. You do not care about the future of farmers, as you do not care about society. Otherwise, how can one explain the very severe rigour of the bill, such high penalties, the loss of licence in cases where the infringements are repeated six times in two years? Which other commercial sectors do these happen to? With a word, cruelty, brutality of penalties against people of the part-session who support the people's family, fueling it with cheap and quality food, in an institution that the consumer today needs more than ever. You will not find allies, gentlemen, in trying to dismantle everything, neither of us nor of society! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u126	Mr Maximos Seedakis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u127	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me that in almost all the bills Census finds and detects something fantastic, usually to say that the New Democracy allegedly represents the elites, is a party of the great interests and of course is neoliberal. That always sticks everywhere. The same happened with this bill. The Minister posted the original bill into public consultation, the bodies submitted their proposals at parallel meetings with the head of the Ministry of Development, the local MPs who also carried views of producers and professionals, and they also had parallel meetings with the leadership, as well as local government officials. In simple terms, there has been exhaustive dialogue and the Civic Opposition comes and zeros, as usual. 'Proposal for a European Parliament and Council Directive on the approximation of the laws, Where does that come from? Because how can the original bill finally be submitted after all this consultation, incorporating all the comments of the parties involved and speaking about a preliminary dialogue? But, to understand, all these real changes that have taken place, without changing the core of the bill, are pretexts? "Adonis has made a shithead," says the Qualified Opposition, "sustained pressure". But what pressures, ladies and gentlemen of counterpopulation? Is dialogue a pressure? And when you agree, you're succumbing? Isn't that the Minister's job to propose and accept the changes and corrections proposed by the House? We're here, aren't we the legislature? And since this is where all the prologue runs out, we're going to the main thing. 'You are spreading the folk to the multinationals'. The known line for the New Republic of elites. And it follows the other, more good: 'The Minister closes the people'. And you say I don't listen well, I can't, I don't live that. But what people from those you are supposed to express do not remember that the people's markets did not close to the pandemic, why exactly did this Ministry's leadership backed off? Has this government not shut down the populace, against the scientists' suggestions, and will it now come to shut them down with a bill? Honestly, is it serious to say such things? And yet you're not exhausted. Since you finally found nowhere in the bill to say that the people's markets are being given to the multinationals, instead they remain in public and local government, since you finally didn't find anywhere in the bill to say that the people's markets are closing, the classic comes the "neo-liberal New Democracy". So, what is that neoliberal you're invoking? Trying to permanently regulate and manage the outdoor markets by importing them into the digital age? The fact that producers and professionals will see their positions digitalally, that they will know the conditions for licensing and positions favours elite and major interests? How can a system be transparently characterized to favour few? The opposite is done, a clear system gives equal opportunities. Is it neoliberal enough for young people to be able to trust the state again, believe that they can work and advance, make these householders too? Because we are the party of the households, not the elites, ladies and gentlemen of the opposition. And because the householders are behind and in front of the benches, is the e-consumer neoliberal? Is a digital system that favours competition neoliberal, since it is enlarged to enter the whole of trade? Is a neoliberal system that favours the consumer who can in real time press a button find the product he wants at the lowest price? No reasonable man says that, but neither do you ever mean it. Because the e-consumer was on the SYRIZA government. I didn't see you drop it, it just didn't work. You obviously hadn't succeeded in operating it, probably because of your inability. Well, now it's working and already two hundred thousand consumers have embraced it. And yet, here you find something to say. The producers and professionals of the people's markets cannot, he says, monitor technology. You think so? Have you seen their social media profiles? You're so underestimating people of hardship? Do you think they can't watch the technology? We believe the exact opposite. But also for those few who are likely to find it difficult to make it easier and you will see how quickly the European funds directed at education and equipment in this sector will be used. As we of course believe that the regulation which has been hard to deal with by the Ministry of Development's leadership solves in a number of ways the major problem facing actual producers by name and license, who have tax treatment for a producer, but are trading with black products. Anyone who claims that the regime on the people's markets should not have regulated because it was as it was, in fact, tolerates this situation, which in the end is in complete contrast with the interests of the real and small producers, that is to say, the many who find a way of placing their products on local people's markets. And that is neoliberal and that term belongs to you. I close, ladies and gentlemen, by saying that at some point we must leave the ideological ideology behind behind and discuss seriously and responsibly the problems of our fellow citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u128	Thank you, Mr Colleague, and the consistency in time. Mr Ioannis Sarakiotis now has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u129	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, who would have expected it to happen that after ninety-three years of successful operation the people's market foundation would have known of this devaluation. Where did Eleftherios Venizelos imagined, who established this institution in order to cope with the bitterness of the intermediaries, that in the end it would be a dissolution, consumers would be left unprotected in the mountains of speculators, and mediators would be made with a legislature of mighty and regulators. What is your prediction, ladies and gentlemen of the government, for consumers who have so far had direct and inmediate access to cheap, quality products through popular markets? Is this the future that you hold for hundreds of farmers who want to move their products autonomously without being placed under the control of any cartels? Are you going to tell these fellow citizens to live with less than three hundred pounds, like the Minister? In particular, therefore, in the articles of the bill: in Article 66, you look at rule 50-50 and you turn production permits into professional permits. What about the existing seller license holders? You anticipate a transitional period and then many of them will lose their licenses, issued on the basis of Law 4497, which you yourself voted for in 2017. How will they cope with the transition to the new regime, when they have already been hit multiplely by the pandemic, the suspension of the smooth operation of the market for months and the extreme weather phenomena which have affected many regions of our country? In practice and in essence the nature of the popular market is lost, and as the chairman of the Federation of Producers' Associations, Mr Makridis, said in committee, the appropriateness of the popular market, which is that producers be located and complemented by professional land and sea and industrial species. They will no longer be completed, but they will dominate the concept of the people's market as we have known until now. Article 62 provides for the withdrawal of a post if six infringements are detected within two years, in addition to a fine of EUR 3 000. In addition, two infringements of non-proofing, irrespective of the amount, are provided for the revocation of a licence. Does anyone ask you what these people will do about two proofs will lose their license? How will they live their families until they move forward and when the reopening of the post proceeds? One wonders what kind of hypersensitivity is it at the moment when the New Democracy Government voted for a photographic amendment to regulate the debts of the casinos of Mr Piladakis a few days ago, at a time when the banks remain unavoidable for unfair practices, when the very large private investment in Greek will be carried out with money from the recapitalised Greek banks, but of which they remain excluded for a year and a half, thousands of Greek small and medium-sized entrepreneurs. So you return to what you said between 2010 and 2014, that for the memorials it was because there was no evidence of EUR 1 or EUR 2 cut for a kilo of cucumbers or a kilo of tomatoes. I now come to the question of ministerial decisions to which you refer for 1/4 of the bill, seventeen ministerial decisions on sixty-eight articles, with the most flagrant one on the items allowed for sale on the people's markets. Is it possible for the Minister concerned to decide as to what will be sold on the people's markets without any consultation, without the professionals and producers being heard, without taking into account consumer organizations? What are you trying to fix with these practices? During the hearing, the Vice-President of Thessaloniki, Mr. Patulidou, told you publicly by way of a statement by Mr. Patoulis, Mr. Tzikostas and other regional directors who are also present in the New Democracy. When you come to vote for a law, you better vote for it, but how can it be applied? I would like to assure you with a very great sense of responsibility that this law has gaps, does not solve issues, does not solve problems. Probably fell victim to SYRIZA's propaganda and Mrs Patulidou like the district managers. Of course I cannot express my pleasure at the fact that, after one year's time, the Minister realised that it would not be possible for products to be sold at least 50% by the statement in the IACC to be left out of position. He's late, but he got it. Of course, the total absence of your contact with reality is found in the provisions which you ask producers to register the prices of products electronically by 8 o'clock in the morning. I heard a colleague mentioning before that he sees the producers' profiles in the social media. Rather, the contact you have with the producers of the people's markets is only by seeing their social media profiles, there stops your contact, as you obviously do not know that thousands of farmers wake up every day at 2 p.m. and 3 p.m. in order to travel a lot of kilometres, to move to Athens or other major cities, in order to place these products on the people's market and sit until 4 p.m. noon in the cold, rain, heat. I will overlook the fact that much of the producers are older and it is impossible to proceed with this process, but I will come to the goal of the measure. You want to tell us that the housewife in Atalant who chooses to shop on the popular market on Friday morning will enter the internet, she will see that the broccoli is sold by 10 minutes cheaper on the Lamia People's market, because she is the only one that works on the same day, and she will spend a hundred and fifty kilometers to buy a broccoli 10 minutes cheaper. Because that is essentially what you presented to us during the committees, even saying that this is a reform. The fact that you are indifferent to the social character of the institution of the people’s markets is illustrated by the way in which you treat people with disabilities, as there are no predictions of joining the institution. The National Confederacy of Disabled Persons proposes to mobilise the disability of both individuals and parents - legal guardians of minors with disabilities at least 50%. It is without doubt a fair and reasonable request from the RESEMA, which is linked to the mission of the institution of the people's markets. Next to the vulnerable social groups, next to our fellow citizens, who look forward to the care of the state, so that they actually become equal members of the social fabric and of economic life. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill shows that you do not respect the trouble and sweat of the rural world. You are demanding an institution that had as its main task the uninterrupted access of consumers to cheap products of high nutritional value, which especially today is a matter for the Greek society because of the crisis of accuracy, which is plagued by households and also by businesses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u130	Next speaker, Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement. Until the Step, for Mrs Likolis, is ready, I will inform you that the next speaker will be Mr. Heimaras, Mr. Giannoulis and then Mr. Giannoulis, the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. Mrs. Liikali, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is the first time since our great loss, the inappropriate death of our President Fofi Gennimata. We are again present, however, at the forefront of the struggle to do its vision of a fair society, of a proud country that has the place it deserves in the world. We thank the entire political world, all of Parliament's fellow Members, the parliamentary authors, the entire journalistic world and every citizen of the country who has honoured Fofi Gennamas, who has fulfilled her life - as the honourable President of Parliament has shown so beautifully - and has become a symbol of bravery, kindness, optimism and battle. On April 20, 2021, our late President, Minister, after a teleconferencing with representatives of the people's markets, citizens, producers, etc., stated that your bill, which had been made public at the time, was governed by the intention of serving great interests and meets the opposition of the vast majority of producers and citizens. So, since then, it seemed what you were going to make. Instead of the necessary modernisation of the institutions of the people's markets, the government's plan leads to the Minister's superpowers. There is a naplete syndrome - I will talk about this below - which leaves us open and with the mouth, in modern democracy. Months, then, have passed. Unfortunately, nothing has changed. What really is your motive and the intentions of the government behind the law of today's draft law. If we consider the proposed provisions as a whole, I do not think so. What do you want to do for the bill that you are bringing to the vote today? The total extermination of the people's markets, the superpowers you guard for the face of the Minister? Do you need that much for a day-to-day power confirmation? Hazardous! We've told you many times. Should we comment on the dubiousness of the entire legislative process, since it is clear that everyone who has dealt with this draft law knows neither the basics nor the deficit that you have? You have clearly ignored the fair protests of people who have pointed out to you things that you did not even know in the discussions that were taking place in the committee, as I have observed the relevant Minutes. The resounding mobilization, moreover, was an answer to all of Greece. They're trying to defend the property. Should we comment on the fact that you have come to the secret to introduce provisions which are irrelevant to the contents of the bill, as you do with Articles 71 and 72, concerning critical issues of education, and why do you now have to tell the Greek people why you are doing this systematically? Bring unsolicited provisions into other bills so that no one can get a hold of this from anyone and so that there is no consultation at all. This is the democracy that you understand and serve. So you continue systematically, ladies and gentlemen of the League, to build a Greek of a few, constantly expanding inequalities and freezing injustices. We warned you. The serious problems of the people's markets cannot be solved by legislative intervention, and unfortunately, with the proposed provisions today, not only do you not contribute to the reform and modernisation of the people's markets, but, on the contrary, you have them with mathematical accuracy to complete depreciation. It has been ninety-three years that an institution has taken its course, with its mistakes, with its omissions, with its small and large gaps, which you ought to complete in the name of democracy. And what are you doing? You fully detest the institution at a critical time when the accuracy not knocked on the door but entered our house, in our pockets and plucked the unpreferential world, the one suffering. They light up the calorifers soon and that is the issue that the Greek households employ. And what are you doing? You are completely impoverished by Greek households, small producers and professionals. Support for the rural world, even within the COVID era, with so many glaciers, famines, pestilences, earthquakes and sprinklers, and they don't laugh, Mr. Undersecretary. They have big problems, even the smile doesn't come out of them. I'm telling you. They therefore face problems without an integrated recovery and support plan. And you come now with a monoconch, which is your draft law, to actually drive farmers and producers out of the people's markets and bring the traders or turn them into dealers, so that you can have your head quietly. And I'll say why you want to keep your head quiet. We all agree on the legality and transparency of the people's markets. However, to do this, you must have control mechanisms. So do not shake the finger at this level, when you have not made sure you have the basic infrastructure. You must therefore consider in the vast gap. A constant request from all stakeholders is the establishment of legal persons in all regions of the country responsible for the proper functioning and effective control of public markets, management boards representing producers, professionals and consumers. One of your ears came in, the other one came out. Absolutely nothing. Legislation on annual producer authorisation notices, which will in practice lead a large number of producers outside the public market. You turn production permits into professionals, disrupting the balance of 50% -50%, exterior fines, tax - insurance information, despite the opinions of the Legal Board of State and the Citizens' Co-legislator. We decide and we order! Decision and order. And, of course, the daily electronic registration of products goes beyond me. I, my Minister, am from Platycabo Larissa, from the municipality of Killere. I read this, namely, that in the system every day, producers in the middle of work, under difficult weather conditions - the treads from here, the bench from there - will have to do this work that you and that really outweighs me. Although we should ask you here, not surprise us, but ask you what you have done for the education of these people in this system, before you impose this too, after you impose it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, by saying this. We have repeatedly asked to target these provisions that you at least defend. You defend these provisions and the spirit of the law that you enter. We have a different perception of things. I've said many times that when we show the moon, you look at the finger. That's your right. We're in a different ideological calibre. However, what you should ultimately give as explanations is what is coming down. That's the first. Secondly, a comment on my domestic sector, on the amendment you bring to the regions of EUR 6 million, Minister - from the ILO - in order to restructure existing companies operating RES power plants. Shouldn't you explain that to us? You're gonna have to tell us what, because it looks like it's a picture taken day.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u132	Mrs. Liikali, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u133	And you should tell us, if you know, why the amount you have put it there, why not 5 million or 7 million or 8 million, which regions are involved and if you have specific examples with a name. So you'll tell us. Otherwise, trade in hope for traders, but not for producers. We support small producers and farmers. We're there, you're elsewhere. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u134	Next speaker, Mr Haimaras Themistoklis, from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u135	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the preparation of the draft law, the attitude of counter-population was to be expected. Recognizing the problems and at the same time refusing proposals and structural interventions. Unfortunately, the reasoning has once again prevailed in the speeches of the officers of the officer, mainly, of counter-population. They support irresponsible views which demonstrate that the Members who support them have not read the bill and the final provisions. There was a colleague who said yesterday that if he applied for a librarian, he would get a higher score, a molecules, from a high school graduate when the bill clearly states that the moleculosis is related to relevant diplomas. Some also have not understood that Article 4, which enabled legal persons to exist in the preliminary drafting process during the consultation and which was - if you like - an area of misinterpretation for the creation of impressions has been withdrawn. They normally continue to place the account that through misinterpretations they supported without having read the final provisions. They've been trying to create a conflict account for months. In the summer, I would remind you that there was a strike that was almost zero. Even now that people's markets are supposed to react, no popular markets have been closed down in Greece. Why, is that so? Have you wondered? But because producers of popular markets, people of labor and labor, know that the bill serves over time demands. They also know that all of us MPs, but also the ministers of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, would never allow their own professional rights to be affected, because they know that the whole, almost, of our parliamentary group comes from the market, we are themselves and, obviously, we stand together with the free professionals and we represent them with every power and every effort. We are next to our producers and we support their struggle every day, and here I would like to congratulate our rapporteur, Mr Simopoulos, who has taken precedence over many and structural changes to the draft law expressing the whole, I believe, of our parliamentary group. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear and acceptable to everyone that in order for people's markets to remain, an important channel for the disposal of products, they must adapt to the new conditions, new market data and meet the increased demands of consumers. In the context of the dialogue - which was in no way a pretext, but a substantive dialogue - operators made proposals to eliminate distortions and address the structural problems of the people's markets. The bill is quite clear that it is about upgrading and improving the popular markets, not about entering companies, it does not abolish the rights of people working in the people's markets. The licensing process enters a series and is implemented only through the integrated information systems of regional government, and this has a very important effect on the transparency and reliability of the system. Undoubtedly, the transition to the digital age is also necessary for people's markets. The e-consumer digital platform is already becoming a very useful tool for consumer service and is now being enriched and price-informed from the people's markets. Traders and producers shall only declare the starting price for specific products on the platform. The consumer, therefore, has the opportunity to compare prices, not only from the popular markets, but also from the supermarkets, and to choose from where he will make his purchases. Please do not reduce producers, I am in contact with producers every day, that is not a problem, and it will not apply immediately from the next day in the region, especially. It is also important to provide for the possibility of operating standard popular markets. The conditions, conditions and rules of operation can be a guide to better organised people's markets. And now, Minister, I will take advantage of your presence here as the Minister responsible for the ESDP, to tell you how this is a golden opportunity for the path of the model people's markets to also find financial roads in the next programming period from the many financial instruments we have, to support the producers of the people's markets with a specific financial instrument that will enable them to make use of modern equipment. In the course of the preparation of the draft law, please specify that, in order to re-evaluate the quantity to be allocated by the producer to the folk, the quantity to be made available to the folk will be determined by means of a declaration by the producer himself and the quantity in question will be calculated in the IACC by 50%. Also, the withdrawal of the licence relates only to serious tax violations, such as the lack of a cash machine - nobody mentions it - and also to the lack of proof for three times a year. Not for two proofs. Because this is an interpretation that is appropriate for producers to consider that with two infringements on the same day they will be revoked. As far as moleculosis is concerned, it is clear that the candidate who will not be able to take a place on the people's market of his choice will not be left out of the market, but will be able to cover with another position in another folk and all that I say there is a transitional period and the necessary time is given to prepare the people's market sector. The new legal framework for rural trade modernises the system of the people's markets and at the same time maintains the popular character of the institution. At every major change, like now, there are reactions. However, today's bill receives acceptance because it comes to confrontation with pathogens of decades, respecting the efforts of people fighting daily for the survival of their own and family. Ladies and gentlemen, we have another piece of legislation in the New Democracy and the Ministry of Development in the right direction, and I urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u136	After the Stepma has been prepared, we will give the floor to the President of the Merra25 Parliamentary Group, Mr Yiannis Varoufakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u137	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, debt, poverty, pandemic, of course, and lately increasing accuracy. This is the cyclone in which the majority of our fellow citizens of the people are being scrutinised out there. You, the government, as you did with the coronary, do exactly that. You hide behind the reality that this is an exogenous phenomenon. On the outside, COVID -19 came, the truth is that now, recently, the increased cost of transport energy comes from outside. Yes, the exogenous was the COVID, exogenous is the accuracy that comes through the energy markets, only that you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, instead of acting as a windstorm that depreciates the vibrations coming from outside, the blows, the blows, you act as accelerators and multipliers of these blows, whether it is the pandemic or the accuracy. With the pandemic you systematically refuse for two years to seriously strengthen the cracked National Health System, while you open the canneauries, overdebting the already indebted state, in favour of the predator funds, the middle arms dealers, the mass deception media, your other circles. As much as you actually say that inflation is imported. I will not disagree that we have in fact been having imported inflation for a few months recently. You, however, even managed in the first phase of the pandemic, when we had deflation - look at ELSTAT's indicators where on average the rate was reduced - even then, remember in spring 2020, prices in the supermarkets rose by 15% to 25%. In other words, the poor had a positive over-inflation when overall prices decreased. That was a reality that you contributed to. How did you contribute? Let me remind you that as soon as the coronary has hit the country, the truth is that transport systems have collapsed, there was a great problem of transporting agricultural and livestock products from production to towns. What have you guys done? You closed the popular markets for two weeks and imposed a reduced function on them by 50% the rest of the year. At the same time, in the supermarkets, they were actually pressed with, I hit you. We have told you from this step forward that the state must become the buyer of a last chance. Like the Central Bank is the ultimate lender of opportunity, so it should be the state in this case. Bring those rotating goods that the producers have thrown away and channel them through the people's markets, not from the supermarkets. You didn't. And that is why we have - I will say this once again - over-inflation for the poor in key issues, the period of deflation in the economy as a whole, in our macro-economics. Congratulations. That's why you need to win the grand prize of nonsense. You're the only government! [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] And now came the accuracy of the imported one after that. And what are you doing? What are you doing now that really imported inflation comes? We are not in a period of deflation of global capitalism as a whole, we are at a time when inflation is pinning. You bring a bill for which I really admire you for your courage. You put the grandmother who wants to sell two bags of rakis from last night to the platform online, say by 20.00, because if she doesn't do it and go the next day to sell the two bags of rakis, you will fine her 500 euros. All right, you all right? If you catch this grandmother selling two bags of rakis without proof in one year, you will fine her 500 euros and get her permission. We are not saying that we are in favour of tax evasion being totally smashed, but that is where you exercise this overpower and oversurface. If the same grandmother - listen, listen - does not manage to sell the rakis she promised through your platform that she will sell, take her permission, do not renew her! Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are not just an anonymous company, the "Metsotakis S.A.", as we say. The "Metsotakis S.A.", which you are, acts as an enemy of competition. You drink water in the name of competition, but the strings that move you hate competition. There's no other explanation. Today, with this bill, you give it all to the supermarket owners, destroying their only real competitor, the popular markets. You're predators of predators, monopolies and participation companies. And that wouldn't be so bad by itself if you didn't do anything to magnify yourself instead of depreciating the vibrations that come from outside, whether we're talking about coroners or talking about accuracy. Having accepted this role of accelerator, magnifying the wounds against the majority of the people out there, you do not hesitate to either strike whenever they are or watch the "strike" of popular classes and strikes in general. Here we have your MATs to beat even MPs, without an apology from the Minister of Civil Protection, how much more than the MP or the MP. Without a démarche by the President of Parliament in favour of the younger Bulgarian in our Parliament. With your parliamentary representative yesterday instead of pleading fellow solidarity with our Parliamentarian, he dares to resign. But what can one expect from a system of half-S.A. government, half-Ministry system? A median system, a corporate system - because that is what you have set up - which does everything to keep the name of Dimitris Daglis, the porter who left his breath in the facilities of 'COSCO', to forget the name of Dimitris Asimakis, the dealer of 'WOLT', who left his last breath on the part of the asphalt. Not to learn there in the northern suburbs for the struggle of the mayor and the inhabitants of Drapetsonas, a region that is poisoned daily by Mr. Melissanidis's cassettes, does not hear the struggle of the mayor and the inhabitants so that the area with a new dump in Shhsto is not degraded. I'm closing, Mr. President. The price of energy is increasing. What are you doing, "Metsotakis S.A."? It sells PPC and TEDO to companies that are aiming to increase prices even more. The small and medium-sized ones are struggling to avoid eviction and auction, which threatens small and medium-sized ones the predator fund that bought cuts to 3% of their nominal value and what Mitsotakis S.A. does.Huh? He's got the bankrupt people get a mortgage with the troika, another 23 billion euros, to guarantee the profits of the predator funds that, when they sell the house to him, they'll make the profits on the Cayman Islands. Do food increase? What are you doing "Metsotakis S.A."? You're hitting the only competition that prevents supermarkets from orchestrating in dishonesty, popular markets. But that's the way it is. Having built anti-grass markets everywhere, anti-grassroots market for red loans, anti-grassroots energy stock exchange, anti-grass gambling market, now after you have built this whole globe of anti-popular markets you are hitting the popular markets. Well, our answer can only be a popular enthusiasm to throw you down and shoot you not only as a government, but the oligarchy that moves your threads.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr. President. We continue with the list of speakers and invite Mr. Christos Giannoulis to Step in by SYRIZA. Before my colleague takes the floor, I would like to say that on the basis of the remaining number of Members of Parliament, two parliamentary representatives, counting on the minutes and the speeches of the Minister at the close of the sitting, we believe that the roll-call vote can begin at around 18.00 hours if the speaking time is respected. So I would ask you all to make an effort together - I think it is possible - by 6 p.m. to start the roll-call vote. Here, Mr. Giannoulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u139	I've got it, Mr. President, for time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u140	No, it wasn't about you. I was all talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u141	I'm kidding, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, you know, at some point and hypocrisy has its limits and when I hear the Minister for Development lowering the octave of voice intensity, I am even more concerned about it. One of the arguments he developed earlier is that "what do you want and shout about the bill of the people's markets, since participation in the strikes was small?" Of course, it's a paradox of the real image, which is what we're used to. So I reverse the question. So, Mr Georgiadis, in the 80% strike of teachers you raised the phone to Mrs Keramos to tell her that we have a problem with the social majority, to change what you are reforming and rejecting for education? Choose. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] If participation in mobilisation is a starting point and political consciousness and changes, we can discuss it. But it can't be a kart. And we understand why a kart is being made, because in any case lies and political deception has become your second nature, whether they are bills that are going to contribute to economic development or dismantle, reform social structures and public services. Every few minutes you attack us with the ideological account that you represent the folk party, represent the folk classes, represent the workers, you are the winners of history, you have written the story on the account of your own worthy and ideological achievements. You're saying it, you're glad, you believe it, you mean it, but you can't find it anywhere in your legislative initiative. Today, ladies and gentlemen, as the rapporteur of the bill on the degradation of the people's markets, we are talking about putting true producers on the margin, living and coming from Thessaloniki, a city that has been experiencing the abrupt effects of your government's inertia over the last two and a half years. Somebody's got to remind you. We're not in August 2019. We are two and a half years after New Democracy took over power with Prime Minister Mitsotakis. Today, Thessaloniki, Northern Greece lives the drama of inefficiency and lack of responsibility for the pandemic, and there is not even the time when we are discussing a plan to increase incidents, increase deaths, the unarmed National Health System, for children who are being co-administered in schools halls by twenty-seven, twenty-eight, twenty-nine, thirty and no one reacts. The Qualified Opposition, by its President, invites another issue to have a great debate on an order before the day. And there's silence. And there's inertial. And you come and teach us parliamentary practice? I must say that I have no parliamentary experience as much as Mr Georgiadis has. Of course, with his political positions and practices, I do not want to have it with this data. Anyway, the hanged man's house doesn't talk about rope. Two and a half years you have been legislating with the degenerating parliamentary practical amendments with garnish bill. Has he not realised that this is now understood by the average citizen following Parliament's meetings? There may have also been use or abuse of this parliamentary practice in the past, but you have completed it, in the sense that tomorrow a bill of the Ministry of Infrastructure is introduced, containing within six other bills of similar law or other ministries. You do not want us to judge that Adonis Georgiadis is the politician who defends the parliamentary and constitutional dimension of the legislative act. And you are the ones who in the last two and a half years have achieved the following: In the 90% of the laws you have brought, the opposition to you is almost packed. That's what it wants to do to achieve political courage. You're making it available. But don't turn around and tell us "I, the Good Minister" about the People's Markets bill, because the majority of you people's markets are mainly using them to distribute crucifixed voters on election eves. The pain caught you and suddenly only you understood, while everyone else understood the opposite, that the directly involved disagree. What's gonna happen? The House is not a television screen. The picture, the reality, the truth is true. We cannot twist it with such ease. Half the truths you know are half the lies. I do not know whether Mr. Georgiadis has remained in the election campaign for the succession in New Democracy in 2016, in relation to the Regional Director of Central Macedonia, Mr. Djijkostas. I believe that this has been closed down as a chapter in the history of the New Democracy. But I can't find any explanation. I won't use his practice of opening a cell phone to read. I will pass it on to you, because we just met yesterday with the Infrastructure and Transport Department, Mr. Papa with Mr. Djijkosta. As a matter of fact, we have heard with our ears about the bill on people, that this bill is inappropriate, not only in terms of the version of the institutions or the institutional framework concerning the two major regions, which, let us not be fooled, is the largest volume of action on the people's markets, but it is also inapplicable as a whole. It's over and out. These whispers and whispers of Mr.Georgiadis, 'we will see it, uh, yeah, okay, good people are Mr. Patulis and Mr. Gizicostas, we congratulate ourselves on the same political space' - at least on the forefront, because behind the background others show - they are half truths. Will you accept the call made by the Association of Greek Regional Authorities and both regional authorities in the two major regions that this bill is inapplicable? You just answer Greek in simple words. To transfer it to the Ministry of Interior, in discussions with other service actors, I do not believe that it is politically honest. I conclude that what we are talking about is not an unprecedented classic or social vigour against producers, people who use popular markets to participate in the food chain, social cohesion and support vulnerable groups, workers and consumers. There has been a long time with your extension of democracy, matching the real needs of Greek citizens regardless of what they have chosen or will choose in the future in the polls, in relation to both the needs of the citizens and the country at this juncture. No matter how hard it sounds, you don't care. The only challenge for your political survival is how to manipulate and deceive Greek citizens again. Unfortunately, you will attempt to do so. The verdict of the Greek citizens will not be confirmed. And as far as this bill is concerned, it is not just that it is being voted against. At some point you're confronted with the image, what's going on. All Opposition has been systematically and documented for some two years now, and you think you're saving us. You're not saving us. You're ruining us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u142	The parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr President. What is the government's objective with this bill? The aim is very clear. It is important to change the character of the people's markets, as we have known them, namely to provide a way out for the bio-producers, but also traders, but also a way out for the people's layers, to be able to obtain cheaper agricultural goods and quality products. On substance, you are taking steps to adapt the nature of the people's markets to an objective process in which we live in the capitalist system. This is the concentration of economic activity in less and less hands. We experience this in all sectors and sectors of the economy, whether it relates to production, whether it relates to processing, transport, trade and other services. So economic activity is concentrating on less and less hands, forcefully deporting self-employed professionals, the smallest, family-friendly businesses. And while it is an objective process in the capitalist system, the governments concerned are also taking steps to speed up this process. Measurements have been taken by all governments. What are these measures? Exclusion from financing, obstacles and difficulties in their operation, insurance system, tax policy, market liberalisation and the opening up of so-called 'client professions'. So this draft law is also in progress in this direction. The government is trying to speed up such a process. After all, the original wording that was in place for companies to participate in popular markets may have been withdrawn, but it has been temporarily withdrawn and remains your main target. Because it is precisely what you are seeking to do that is to put the business groups in the hands of the people and to shrink whatever their function and activity if they are unable to put them in the hands of themselves immediately. And from this point of view you are trying to use various tools to achieve your goal. And the most dangerous tool that you use either to try to cultivate contrast between producers on the one hand and professionals on the other, namely, who will have the upper hand, who will survive. And in this way you leave to those unpredictable, who are the true enemies of producers, bio-populators and professionals. And who are the real enemies? Real enemies and their opponents are the stores, they're the supermarkets, they're the supermarkets. In other words, through his logic, "divides and reigns" you are trying to serve the interests of stores and supermarkets. And, of course, the tragic effects of the government's management of the pandemic on the parties to the people's markets with their suspension of operation, reduced functioning of the people's markets. And while it is not enough for the crustaceans that you have given as compensation to people who are active in the people's market, with your current bill you put new obstacles, you also put new difficulties in particular for the poorest parts that are active in popular markets. Also, turn the license into a position. They must be financially settled and with insurance information and tax information and not owe the municipality and not owe the daily fees. They have to deal with high daily fees to management bodies, which will increase even more because you are putting instruments and private companies precisely aimed at maximising their profits and getting it out of the sweat of the parties. You're changing social criteria. You removed the criterion from the inside, a Roma can have molecule. In fact, at a time when this social group is mourning a dead man from the murder of the police, at this time you're throwing them out. But whatever period it was, it's a deep criminal choice. As with the disabled there is no moleculosis, no premium. And I'm not going to talk about what you're counting on the degree because it's just this choice of you for yet another courtesy, a mocking of the diploma itself. It is another step towards further degradation of higher education diplomas in our country. Graduate in popular, traveling world trader, Degree in develvera, waiter. And I say this not because we underestimate or degrade - at least in the JRC we have no such logic - the importance of all these activities, but because for these activities, Minister, it is not a condition for them to have a diploma. So you're driving the degree to his degrading literally. Thirdly, you are setting punishable, very severe penalties that reach the suspension, even the removal of the authorisation if they are going to make three tax violations at the same time, i.e. by selling a minced parsley, a few tomatoes, a few oranges. To cultivate a climate of tax compliance, do you do this? To deal with tax evasion? When you, with your policy, all governments, have shaped a huge scandalous climate of tax evasion for big capital, from shipowners and not just? And we're going to go after the folk guy if he cut off a 50-minute receipt to fine him? Or if he repeats it twice and three times to suspend his license? Really? If this is not a vengeful logic, what else could it have been against this world? Or you ask him despite the minor modification you make to 50% of its production, the one he declares in the IACC, to have sold it to the people's market. All these obstacles which you are putting in form the conditions to change the nature of the people's markets even further. They put new obstacles and difficulties for the poorest sections that are active there, and these obstacles that are multiplied by the creation of a management body that is a legal person in the municipalities or in the region, and that legal entities can participate in private management companies on the substance of the public markets. Where's that going? It will develop even more the daily fee that will be called on to pay the people to these management bodies. Finally, it is also an obstacle to the elderly who are active there and to a number of categories that must of course be gradually integrated and to declare their products and prices on e-consumer. They must have someone to show them. If they don't have a child, they'll have to find someone known or go to an accountant. And that's an obstacle. And don't tell me now - and here's the big story you're selling - that with the e-consumer you'll be dealing with the accuracy. Are you serious? Was the accuracy of the supermarkets treated with the e-consumer when others are the source of accuracy? And the source of accuracy is that producers are actually being forced to buy the raw material from monopolies to grow, the farms that they want, the products they want, the fertilisers that they want and when they are forced to sell to large undertakings for the processing of their agricultural products. Here's who's increasing production costs. It increases the oil that for farmers there is no duty-free oil, while for shipowners there is duty-free oil. Policies therefore create this precision climate and is not an exogenous factor. It's just another mechanism that uses the system in different periods to break, plunder popular incomes. So any changes you say in the bill from the original wording, as the Minister said here, are nothing but manoeuvres which you are doing under the pressure you have received from people who are active in the people. You have been forced to retreat, as we clearly say this retreat is temporary. And much more when there is Article 67 which, with the authorizing provisions given to go ahead, could alter the nature of the provisions contained in your bill. And we tell people who are active in the people's markets, producers and professionals to be vigilant because, precisely, the government's pursuits to force them on the people's markets have not stopped. And they will try in a timely manner to bring it into effect. So we say to the people and those parts of the people in general: no confidence in the government, no confidence in the urban state and any governments in general. Because each government at its centre has how to meet the needs of capital and thereby sacrifice the satisfaction of people's needs and rights. That is why we say that the treatment of pandemic cannot be left by the people to the criminal management of the government, but the people must take the case in their hands and claim the protection of public health from the pandemic. Because the government, although there's a fourth wave of pandemic, even though it's fading, has taken no measures to shield public hospitals. It does not proceed with the requisition of the private sector without compensation. And of course, it does not take measures, on the contrary, to protect public health in places where many people gather from the public transport that co-exist, whether it is the choice made by the Ministry of Education to reduce the vacancies of teachers to merge departments by consuming young children in a few rooms. So the government makes use of the vaccine, so that it does not take any measures, and is shielded behind the logic of the vaccine. This option, which he does, leads to the depreciation of the ability of the vaccine and at the same time creates conditions of irrationalism for the folk layers and non-confidence to any vaccine and its consequences. So you have the vaccine to take absolutely no measures that shield the public health system and use individual responsibility to cultivate social automation to take anti-optical measures to suspend work. So, ladies and gentlemen, we are clearly saying that in these conditions, which pandemic is unfolding, the fight for the protection of public life must be centred on the substance of the logic of trade in health which leads to the degradation of primary health care and public hospitals and which is the option for the strategic conclusion of the rest of the parties. That is why, at times, we have acceptance ministers, as SYRIZA said about a year ago, or today, which talks about joint acceptance scientific committees and on the contrary, claiming measures to protect public health from the pandemic. And the government where the 'carrot' of anti-population policy does not pass, uses the mastism' and this'mastile' is nothing but its dear choice to resort to state violence, terrorism and repression and that state violence always has a class mark, because we operate in an urban state. State violence is just against the workers, pensioners, professionals, back-to-back farmers, the people of the people and at the same time protects the interests of the capitalists. So these announcements made yesterday by the Minister, in essence, further reinforce this logic of state repression and the realization of the cameras, for example, in the police uniforms, generalize the e-book, effectively implements the SYRIZA government's choice of smart police, as it had been called. Education and retraining is not determined on the basis of the protection of human life, but is determined on the basis of how repressive character will be strengthened even more. From this point of view, what you want is clear. You just want not only to strengthen the state repression and the repressive role of the police, but at the same time you are also trying to manipulate the trade union movement in the police. You may have withdrawn Article 1 of the amendment that abolished the simple analogue. Why did you do it? Why did you withdraw it now? Because the POSSY conference was held. On the substance, you want to check the PDO conference. What you say in the explanatory statement has been lost, that this ensures a large number of free choices to those who are involved in trade unions, why are they traded? So that's what you wanted to achieve. And, of course, you temporarily took it back, which is a transgression of your policy, because it is precisely this choice of another proof that you want to turn trade unions into a direct, decisive and in every way from the urban state and employers and you are doing everything in order to be able to impose this control, because you want a united, labour and popular movement for your system. You're deeply laughed if you think that's what you're gonna do. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u144	Thank you, Mr. Karathanasopoulos. We're still on the list. The next speaker, which we call on Vima, is Mr Kollias Konstantinos from New Democracy. Here, Mr. Collia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, I understand your anxiety and discomfort because, after the legislative improvements made by the Minister, your arguments have been denied, your speech has been canceled, and when you go up to the Step, you talk about the wind and water and you do not focus on the substance of the bill. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law as it has been drawn up by the Standing Committee on Production and Trade is an exemplary legislative instrument, a real model, and the reason is this: In the ten years of my parliamentary term, I have first seen such an extent and substance of social, democratic and parliamentary dialogue, such as the one that has been achieved in the preparation of this draft law in the committee responsible by bodies and Members, and I do not hide from you that this gives me particular pleasure. After holding a series of meetings with representatives of the non-parliamentary bodies involved, the Minister announced with a direct reflex and an abundance of his intention of remedial changes at the top of the bill, and this could in no way be described as a sign of political weakness and retreat. On the contrary, it is a sign of political responsibility, of political maturity and respect for the democratic ideal, as well as for the operation of parliament itself. As far as I am concerned, more than fifty times have called on the operators and all interested parties to listen to them. I would therefore like to express my delight at the fact that we have before us a draft law, in which many positions and comments of producers and traders of the people's markets have been accepted. This is truly hopeful because it expresses our Minister's position that there is no ministerial infallibility and any changes are always welcome. I would also remind you that the previous law, No 4497/2017, has only been posted for one week in consultation, for the eyes of the world, without the central stakeholders being heard, such as the CEDEFOP and others. The above proves that our government and its ministers do not pass bills overnight. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not follow such practices that suffocate parliamentary dialogue and completely circumvent any concept of pluralism. I should like to say, therefore, that I consider a very important step forward that the Minister welcomed the labels of operators and I am pleased that many of these points will be incorporated, in accordance with the legislative improvements he has put forward, into the body of the bill. The aim of these improvements is, of course, to make the new framework more operational. First of all, I would like to focus on a very central issue that no one has ever touched and boldly addressed it in this bill. It concerns the conversion of the licences referred to in Article 66(8). This is the practice in which small producers or various bogus producers, in order to keep their positions in the people for a long time, bought products from third parties, often from the producers themselves who are active in the same people. On substance, they are engaged in a commercial activity which does not appear anywhere, with the result that tax evasion, opacity, price manipulation, unfair competition and so on. And the Minister had the courage to raise an issue that no one has ever dared to touch. And with great satisfaction, our chosen rapporteur, Mr Simopoulos, who has contributed to the maximum in this direction, many of my fellow Members from the New Democracy, but also my fellow farmers in Corinthia, we have seen that the legislative improvement amending this article limits the conversion of the producer licence to a dealer's license only for small producers and with a limit of twenty acres and geographically only in the Attica region. And, of course, it is clear in this way that it is not about producers of other laws in the country that operate in the Attica people. And then I would like to make a reference to Article 5. In particular, the proposed regulation sets out the question of the time validity of the licences and the places of business of the sellers, i.e. five years, as for professional sellers. Further, according to the Minister's communications, a highly favourable regulation is being promoted for producers. While until first we had the system that the producer made an application to enter a folk with the Committee on the People's Markets to rule on what this folk will be and without the slightest safeguarding of a position for him, Article 13 now regulates the granting of licences, posts and rights of activity following the issue of a contract notice. There is provision for an increased moleculation of the younger candidates for rural trade. Among other things, it will also act as an incentive for the employment of young people living in rural areas. Furthermore - and very importantly - the license is fully matched with the position, and this is a very important innovation, in order to finally combat the scourge of the backdrop of the backdrop of the backdrop in the morning - in the folk and swamped to find a bench, seeing next to the others who had the contours and the media spread into two and three seats, which the notorious committees never gave to producers who had no seats. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will end in a minute, Mr President. Of course, in order not to blame people who do their job properly, there are people who function and operate perfectly, such as Athens II. So, at last, clear conditions are laid down for younger sellers not to pull out what we - those who did not have a position - because, ladies and gentlemen, I come from a rural family and have often been on the popular markets, supporting my parents' activity. I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, contrary to your actions on your day, where easy enrichment and tax evasion were based on people, today's bill attempts to raise the level of people in the 20th-century market conditions significantly, to give them the opportunity to participate in ESDP programmes, to give them the opportunity to make use of digital technology. For all these reasons, I suggest that you vote in favour of the bill. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u146	Good. The next speaker is Ms. Skoufa Elisabeth from SYRIZA. After Mrs. Skoufas, Mr. Liupis will follow, after Mrs. Tyloridou, Mr. Cappatos and Mr. Tolkas, with whom the fifth cycle of speakers will be completed with a natural presence. Here, Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u147	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the People's Markets Bill at least has a history of at least ten months up to a year and takes this position in the recent legislative history of our country. As the Minister for Development himself admitted yesterday, Mr Georgiadis, in the original draft submitted in February for consultation in Article 4 made express reference to taking up positions in the public by companies. That article was withdrawn. You withdrew it because the universe got up. But you are bringing it back to us, your basic aim of altering the character of economic and social activity in the people, with this bill from the back door. What do you want to do? And that is what all the small and medium-sized producers and merchants who are active in people and consumers have understood. You want to completely alter the character of the people. You want through a strict framework of fines and penalties to gradually and voluntarily remove licences from small and medium-sized traders, particularly producers and these licences, to be delivered to great interests. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, however, you are escaping the very history of the institutions of the people's markets. It is an institution that has been supporting not only economical but also socially the whole of Greek society. It mainly supports the weak consumer, bringing him into direct unmediated contact with the producer and the small trader. So you want to finally remove the possibility for consumers to find cheap, fresh, quality and local - products most of the time. Destroy consumers, break down local farmers and producers. You have not explained why, of course, until today, a substantial explanatory statement has not been tabled. And why hasn't he testified? Because you hide your real plan to alter the nature of the people's markets. You have not told us why, for example, you have completely abolished Law 4497/2017, which - and I have said many times - you have voted on it again. You are not telling us why you are abolishing the clause, the expressed clause for the occupation of 50% of the positions of the people by the producers. You do not explain why you are assimilating the producer and small and medium-sized traders of craft products and traders of popular markets with businesses - listen! - having an annual turnover of EUR 90 million. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, those who come from the province - and I say this because in the province our relations with all of our fellow citizens are even more direct and non-intermediate - will you vote, in truth, on the provision that the producer should declare a purse to the OPSAS, the electronic system, all of its products at all prices, and if he sees six times in two years to declare one of his twelve, fifteen, ten products, then a fine of EUR 3,000 is to be imposed on him and his seat and licence withdrawn, so you should deprive him of any access to the people's, any economic activity? Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, at one more point I want to stand. Do we have Article 21(6), which he says? That with unupdated tax and insurance information, all positions in folk, stagnant, global trade are automatically lost, and only if the producer or the small trader within one month deposited all the supporting documents required and pays all his obligations to the tax office and the insurance funds, then he will re-activate his post. Do you have any sense in what economic environment you legislate? Do you have any feeling that you have not given any economic tools to the hands of small and medium-sized enterprises, not just of producers, not only of shopkeepers, but of all self-employed small and medium-sized enterprises, throughout small and medium-sized enterprises? Do you realize that you have not given any effective tools to deal with the launched private debt? But, ladies and gentlemen, can you bring this unexplained one, that is to say to remove the licence by not issuing three proofs? Are you imposing this on other trade or on supermarkets? Why do you legislate with two standards? So let's tell you again why you legislate like this. Because you also intend to apply to the economy the model of herd immunity, a purely Danish model that says that only the powerful survives and everyone else in Kaidas! Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are fully responsible for economic strangulation and affliction of all small and medium-sized entrepreneurship across the country. You are responsible for driving fifty, fifty-five and sixty-year-olds in total despair and unemployment. You are accountable for the impoverishment of the Greek people. You are ideoleptic, you are socially completely isolated, you are analgesic. We call on you to withdraw even now this obsolete bill, which confirms once again your plans for the suppression of the mighty. We invite you to support the grape producers Crimson in Pieria, the brown producers and the entire agricultural population and producers. In conclusion, Mr President, I would like to once again thank the producers of the people's market in Katerini from the step of the House, producers throughout the country who, in the leap years of the memoranda of their misery, are now supporting our solidarity structures and our weak fellow citizens. It goes without saying that the next new progressive governance will abolish on the next day this bill, which also puts tombstones in all small and medium-sized entrepreneurship and consumers as a whole. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u148	Mr Athanasios Ljupis from the New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I would like to thank you for the completion and the opening yesterday at the fish auction in Volos port, a development project with jobs, a freight centre with secure quality and economic catches for the benefit of fishermen and consumers, a development project with full digitisation, interconnection with other fish auctions, electronic auctions and the ability of the consumer to be informed in real time about catches and prices. In my view, today's bill for the benefit of producers, but above all of consumers in the people's markets, is also moving in the same spirit. Thus, today's bill attempts to correct distortions and to fill gaps in the operation of rural markets. With the new provisions, firstly, the institutions of the people's markets are being upgraded. Secondly, new institutions, such as the standard popular market, are being introduced. Thirdly, it opens the way for those active in the people's markets to participate in the NSRP and fourthly, digital media are exploited, as is the case in every bill. It is clear that producer's licence is granted to natural persons, professional farmers, either to agricultural cooperatives, to women's cooperatives or to COMES. There is therefore no realistic basis for the criticism that private interests and companies are allegedly entering the popular markets, as the Opposition claims. One of the innovations in the bill is that each licence corresponds simultaneously to one position, following participation in the process following a notice. This change takes place to bring about real order and to combat corruption. Of course, in no case is the authorisation of the people's market abolished, as was heard by the Opposition. On the other hand, the new provisions take into account the current established situation for producers by recognising them the right to maintain their licence and status, which they already hold on the people's market, while maintaining the transfer and succession privileges. Producer licences have a five-year duration, such as professionals and not per year, such as the draft. The draft law details the mode and molecules criteria to obtain a new license and place in an outdoor market. The criteria are also a clear social character, since those with children, the homeless, the unemployed and the single parent families are donated. In the light of the changes made by the Minister, the producer should place on the public market at least 50% of the quantity he declares to be intended to sell there rather than the total quantity he has. Thus, producers have nothing to fear, as they themselves fully control the quantities they have on the popular markets. It is distorted by the impression that the removal of the licence to the seller can be easily imposed. Such a sanction is in fact only provided for when there is no cash machine. In all other cases fines or temporary suspension of possession of this post shall be imposed. For the first time, the establishment of the standard popular market, where the implementation of environmental protection practices, support for local and domestic products and Greek cuisine is prioritised. They have uniformity in their benches and have stable sewerage, water and electricity infrastructures. On this point, Minister, it is reasonable to note professionals that they prefer to convert to standards of the people's markets that are already in place, rather than create new ones from the outset. The municipalities are operated outside Attica and Central Macedonia, where the regions are responsible. The whole process is done through the OPSAS information system, where each seller is required by 8.00" in the morning to register the starting price and quantity available on the platform. It is not necessary to state any change in the value, usually a fall, during the day. There was a lot of talk about the usefulness of the e-consumer. We cannot overlook the fact that this electronic platform is a significant step-by-step effort by the Ministry of Development, so that, firstly, it is a shameful phenomenon, secondly, that inflationary tendencies should be retained, thirdly, that the role of the consumer should be strengthened, fourthly, that healthy competition between businesses should be strengthened and that the market should be improved. The e-consumer visits more than two hundred thousand citizens daily and therefore his dynamics are expected to be even greater when his function is expanded. Its application to sellers on the people's market will take place as soon as the system is ready to support the changes, so they will also be prepared to use them after the training and possible use of European programmes. No surprise and no sudden transition to the new system. It will take five months until February 1st, 2022. The Civic Opposition seems not to react to the use of the e-consumer platform, but to the fine provided for without informing the seller. But how else can it be enforced? I think this debate is a dead end. We want the platform, we want prices, but without sanctions. People's markets are a reference point for Greek agriculture and fisheries. Today's bill strengthens them while maintaining its popular orientation. The people who operate in the people's markets have nothing to fear at all. On the contrary. A stable operating framework is created, which favours consistent professionals. What's remarkable? That almost all producers' and sellers' representatives on the people's markets admitted that today's bill is the result of numerous meetings with the Ministry of Development and Investment, which always had doors open to what they wanted to put, together with the many, substantial changes that the Minister has made even today. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] Even if small improvements are needed in the second year, what we must all keep is that the people's markets are strengthened, the role of the consumer is strengthened and in the end we have ministers willing to listen, adapt and pursue the best for the Greek society and the economy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, too. The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mrs Olympia Tyloridou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I would like to express our condolences to the Change Movement for the truly shocking loss of Phophysm Genemas. Minister, while the overwhelming majority of the Greek people feel locked up economic and socially, unfortunately the Government of New Democracy is under the circumstances and continues with a bill on the policies of enlargement of inequalities. It starts with the bankruptcy law, which is based on the "second chance", while in reality it is about the levelling-up of the small and medium-sized enterprises and vulnerable citizens, it continues with the labour law that baptizes the removal of the eighth hour with the unpaid overtime, and then brings the law on education where the liberation of our country's youth is baptised by the exclusion from tertiary education for the benefit of private colleges and completely ignores the accuracy that exterminated the overwhelming majority of the Greek people. Does the government know, for example, that in Castoria, a fireplace and califer have been lighting up for a month and oil has started with 1.15 euros? Is the government aware that it impoverishes farmers by increasing oil, by increasing electricity, by increasing farmland? Instead of making policies, which will help to deal with accuracy, a few days ago, it also reduces by EUR 63,000 the basic support for farmers, leading them to despair and disappointment. At the same time, when the consequences of pandemic, climate change and accuracy mainly affect low and medium-income incomes, the government does not feel any responsibility, it does not feel any guilt. At this point our people are defenceless in the face of great private interests, mediators and best friends. And that is also obvious with this bill, which dissolves an institution which has been helping farmers for a century now to get their cuts and consumers to be supplied without intermediaries for cheap and quality products. This draft law, which is not accompanied by sufficient justification, therefore also affects producers and consumers, as it will reduce the actual income of the first and the consumer power of the latter. The conversion of production licenses into professional disrupts the 50-50 balance and transforms popular markets into pure commercial, outdoor supermarkets. Instead of strengthening the agricultural sector, they tell the producers of the people's markets to be professional sellers, to give up their fields and to become brokers too. You are abolishing the concept of producer's and seller's licence granted on the basis of social and income criteria, a new moleculosis system which does not take into account social criteria to strengthen vulnerable social groups. A characteristic example? The criteria for granting authorisation and placing on the market in the countryside shall abolish the moleculosis for the category of persons with disabilities and for parents and guardians of persons with heavy and multiple disabilities. This is a new moleculosis system, where, he says, the university degree counts more than the producer's work. Absolute mocking! It will help - you say - upgrade quality products to the people's markets to have graduates of related professions. The ultimate hypocrisy of your interest in these people! Who are you talking about? For what relevant degrees? You're talking about those kids you've excluded from tertiary education from agronomic schools? To give you characteristics from a clipboard calculation I made a moment ago: Two and a half thousand school participants only spent thirty-five on the basis of what you had institutionalized in education. Example? At the Agricultural University of Athens, in the rural economy, twenty - eight of sixty. Agricultural Biotechnology at the International University: From a hundred ninety-four passed twenty-four. Vegetable Production in Messolong: From two hundred twenty-three, three passed. Animal Production in Messolong: Of the hundreds of seventy-eight passed two. Agriculture in Florina: Twelve out of two hundred ninety-nine. Geonia in Ioannina: Seventeen of the eighteenth. What are you interested in and what upgrades to primary production that will be reflected in the benches of popular markets? Who are you kidding? And you are doing all this at the time of climate change, where primary production needs support for both the adequacy and quality and safety of agricultural products. If they don't have a degree, they won't be mobilized. If they do not have a degree and have a party identity, however, they can well have a place in your "final" state, as is the case with many non-graduate people in key positions. Even the commander of S.H.I.E.L.D. But let them know that when this government's term of office is over, on the basis of what you are legislating, they will not be able to obtain a licence on the people's markets. You are excluded from the benches of the people's markets under economic and social crisis conditions from those who have tax debts, insurance funds and municipalities. Those who have a place on the people's market will say - it says - on the e-consumer platform every morning by 8.00 p.m. the quantities, quality and price, which only has to be done by that business that has more than EUR 90,000,000 so far. The producer, who is going to set his bench in the popular and wakes up at 4.30 p.m., when he prepares the balls and sets his bench, will electronically indicate the quantities and price on the platform, and as far as the time of the popular market goes, which, as you all know, the prices are falling, he will also be faced with fines if when the "Z" is closed, it will look like a smaller fund on the basis of the quantities and the price he initially declared. And the consumer will search electronically from folk to folk. He's going to go to one to buy lettuce, to the other tomato and the other tomato potatoes. I'm not sure he'll make it every time! The draft law is clear that it favours great interests and leaves producers outside the public, leading them to impoverishment. With this bill you create too many vulgar points, and even you come to the point that there is a secret bill with sixteen ministerial decisions setting out even the kinds sold on the people's markets. So this bill does not serve the citizens, it does not serve the vision of a better life, just as your Government does not serve the vision of a better Greece. This Greek people perceive it day after day. You are now a bad parentheses, which will be closed very soon and the sooner the better for our country and our people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u152	And we thank Mrs. Tyloridou. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Panagis Cappatos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I can only begin with the unjust, sudden and premature loss of the President of the Vulture Ghost Movement, a woman, a politician who honoured public life with morality, its formation and its passion for democracy and parliamentaryism. Both this legacy and its example, its strength, its dignity with which she has dealt with her personal battle, are elements that we will not forget. Good journey and power to her own people. I now come to the draft law, which concerns today's sitting and on which we shall be invited to vote. Ladies and gentlemen, I am starting my thoughts from a statement made regularly by the Minister and I am in agreement. This is the position that a political decision, legislative intervention or a public policy should be taken in order to assess properly. On the other hand, in our assessment we take into account not only the bodies or groups that legislative intervention is concerned with, but also the impact that it is expected to have on the citizens and society as a whole. The case of the people's markets is an excellent case, confirming the logic that I described. The reform of the regulatory framework for rural trade relates to the specific professional activity and professionals associated with it, but it also concerns consumers who are rushing to meet their livelihoods from this commercial activity. The obligation of the public market vendor to introduce specific elements into the digital platform of the integrated information system operating with that of the General Secretariat for Trade and Consumer Protection ensures a minimum requirement for the institutional and organisational functioning of rural trade. In the same sense, the provision concerning the rules on the operation of the public markets is in place, if you want a comprehensive map illustrating issues relating to the day-to-day operation of the public markets, the delimitation of the positions of the sellers, the characteristics of the points of sale, the cleanliness and the fee paid. I have just mentioned two examples of the many that one can draw from the draft law that confirms our dual objective: the sound, transparent and fair functioning of rural markets, but also the protection of producers and consumers. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today we are voting on a draft law which has not yet been dealt with in the committee responsible. Subsequently, it was introduced into plenary with all the parliamentary groups as well as the bodies which this draft involves having been placed on the agenda. With all this knowledge and image on the accumulated bill, I invite you to vote for it because it is based on a positive bill, positive for our producers who are striving to see their products on the market bench, positive for sellers who are struggling to offer goods at prices that will guarantee them a decent life and positive, lastly, for consumers who are looking for the best possible product at the cost that households can afford. This is also the fundamental objective of the people's market foundation, to offer consumers agricultural products, quality and good quality, to bring the producer without the involvement of intermediate stages in direct contact with consumers, to form a business ecosystem where thousands of producers and professionals operate and a significant number of buyers visiting popular markets are served. Ladies and gentlemen, in the ideological and programming arsenal of New Democracy, small and medium-sized professionals, producers and households are key pillars over time. The Greek Central Right placed entrepreneurship, its social character and the importance of family equilibrium first. The New Democracy as a folklore, liberal and deeply social party could only vote for a bill today that mirrors these principles: free entrepreneurship, the social nature of the economy and the importance of agricultural production in economic development and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Cappato. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - the Progressive Alliance Mr Angelos Tolkas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. At this first session of the House following the grief due to Phofi Genemas, I would like to express my sincere condolences to her family and the Change Movement for this great loss to the political life of the place. Minister, allow me to begin with the negative pandemic record that breaks one down to the worst. Your policy is condensed in a phrase: you have said so, you have warned us and now each one alone. Cubeda you do not say about the continuous failures at all levels, failures in the vaccination programme, the need to strengthen the ESS, the requirement to trace the virus, and mass free diagnostics of the population with rapid test. There's a complete refusal to any consensual proposal we presented to you. This and worse is the situation in Imathia, which is firmly located after summer in the first five positions in Greece in number and frequency of cases. The government is absent from the county. You have refused to answer any questions that I asked you about the course and the negative development of the virus, in every action we proposed to you at the county level, deny the proposal to draw up a special local project, leave the world of Imathia in the darkness of information and at the same time continuously remove responsibilities from the Minister of Health moving from one to the other Minister. Come with a special step in Imathia and the other critical prefectures, fully inform about the situation, adopt the health and economic measures that we propose and draw up a special local plan for all these laws that are at an extremely critical point. With your attitude, unfortunately, you are insecurely insecure. Your strategic choice in insecurity is not proved in the bill under discussion. In an environment of constant appreciation, but also of your complete and conscious absence from all the major problems of agricultural production, you have decided to vote on a bill that overturns everything in the people's markets and specifically concerns producers who sell their products to them. Do you really care about the consumer? Obviously you know that in all the open markets in the country there are relationships of confidence between consumers and producers, on the basis of the supply of products of quality, cheaper, without intermediaries, from consumption on the same day, and indeed, traditionally, the consumer is looking for the producer who sells products of his own production. You are proving that you are not interested in the consumer, but you are interested in the large share of rural markets, which is about 30% in the retail sector. Your goal is to redistribute it against the most economical producers of folk and in favour of the most expensive supermarkets and intermediaries. So you are looking forward to strengthening organised supermarkets with extra profits and ultimately pushing the consumer there. And because you like research and you are using them faithfully as a tool to support your policy and let us speak a little bit with that language that you also like to speak, why do you not use the existing investigations and the reports of the Committee on Competition that plunge the alarm that supermarkets are not and will not be cheaper than the people's market? The retail sector in Greece is suitable for the creation of oligopolises and all market studies identify questions and concerns that are raised that Greeks pay more than they should. For example, I only mention some critical assumptions. Food expenditure has increased rapidly especially over the last few years. There is unequal purchasing power that allows supermarkets to raise their prices. The supermarkets have indicators of relatively high profit margins, compared to the variable costs and competition it has weakened. Your Government does not apply the necessary regulatory and political solutions that ensure that consumers pay a fair price, that access and competition are free. In the words that you have put forward this bill, the consumer is supposed to be better and more supportive. Are you interested, Minister, the producer of the salesman in an outdoor market? Do you also know that it is an important way out and a source of income for each producer to participate in the people's market? And who is he to sell his own products to the people? Someone who has infrastructures and sells market terms to supermarkets and wholesale markets? No, of course not. On the people's market there are, basically, those who do not have all the above and seek incomes, people in particular in the province to live their families, farmers and producers who, in difficult everyday conditions, set tables, even in other cities, in other regions, who leave their families to sell their produce. You are proving once again that you are not interested in the small producer, the small and medium-sized rural business, and you are trying to make them all traders - sellers, setting a number of difficulties and conditions which are not related to our rural area. You define punishments, which lead to a loss of place in the people again in order to support wholesale trade and to break the structure of the economy, which gives opportunities to people in need. For two tax violations you deprive a folk producer of permission, while for three tax violations you simply fine and close for a few days a bar or a restaurant in Mykonos. Are you interested in the economy of Greek countryside? You are well aware that the small lot, the reduced yields, the consequences of environmental change, the institutional and structural problems of the Greek agricultural economy do not allow for the violent adaptation to the economies of scale that you would like to see. It is not even the solution for our country, as you believe, to imitate either the intensive cultivation of America or the undeadly production of individual use of the poor Balkans. In the rural world there has been a turmoil, their incomes have been lost and aid has been reduced constantly in recent years, without anyone explaining why. As you do not care about the consumer, you do not care about the farmer - seller in the folk and you do not care about primary production, but only your strong political friends - we vote against the bill. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u156	Thank you, Mr. Tolka, too. The Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the people's markets have played an important role over time in relation to agricultural production, the primary sector and, of course, in direct contact with the products produced in our country. It is an institution that has acted regulatoryly on the market in many cases that either because of speculation or because of other circumstances, the consumer is being driven into a huge burden. Such a period is also what we are going through, where we see the cost of basic goods and services increasing, without any regulatory intervention by the government, which we see is not being exploited with fiscal and other tools, in order to halt this wave of appreciation and at the same time a bill is being discussed in Parliament, which concerns the people's markets, this important institution, as it has done for years, without taking into account the role it can play in the past. And why am I pointing this out? The government with the bill beats the hard core of the people's markets, attempts to change their character, attempts to convert producers to traders and put substantial obstacles to reaching Greek production directly to the consumer. The producer-consumer alliance is, however, the most powerful antidote in accuracy and speculation, it is the most powerful antidote in increasing imports and reducing local Greek production. So the bill is completely wrong in its direction. Despite the very important problems that our speakers have experienced, and particularly our rapporteur, Mr Pana, and Parliamentary Representative Mr Katrin, our opposition to the bill concerns this heart, which is unfortunately the undertaking to change the nature of the people's markets. We therefore see the government today, which is inexplicably inexplicable, because it would certainly be possible for the government to make use of the institution to achieve what is, according to the declarations of the Government and of the Ministers, its objective, that there should be a halt to the wave of dishonesty. Furthermore, the way in which issues are dealt with which are essential to producers, which are essential to consumers, are extermination provisions and ministerial decisions. And here is the second character of a bill that is essentially a framework for decision-making in the second year. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in 1995, Law 2525 on public and outdoor markets was passed and it was a law with which the market has been operating in these areas for too many years. It was a law that lasted many years. And why would it last? Because there was exhaustive consultation before official consultation was even institutionalised via the Internet and through the opengov.gr. There has been exhaustive consultation with the coefficients, farmers first of all, producers, producers - people's market sellers and small sellers. This consultation seems to have been lacking and demonstrated by the fact that you have made some positive changes, but they were self-evident. If the consultation takes place, you would not have to come to plenary to do so. We're not zero. You brought two changes, but they don't change the negative character of the bill at its core. I would say, therefore, that the government could have gone through this consultation, the essential one, that these issues have been resolved and that we should step up and strengthen the institutions of the people's markets so as to play a catalytic role in this critical period for the consumer, the living of each family and, of course, the cost of living. At the same time, it could pass on the message that we favour - yes, we favour - Greek production against imports. And this message doesn't pass, it's not clean. In my view, the government, at least at the last minute, should see the issues raised by the producers in order to find solutions in this direction, on the basis of these basic principles which I have mentioned. There are many individual issues, such as the obligation to complete data on the platform, which could in a different logic, but in the case of multi-shops, for large businesses to operate on the public markets too, they could have dealt with all these problems that are posed as problems of co-competence between the A' and the B' degree. It is not the two main institutions of state administration, which are the First and Second grades and the Central Command, that have not solved the issues of co-management. This can't be! And to come in at the last minute in the bill and to have the CEDEFOP reaction in relation to specific responsibilities, such as Sunday markets and, of course, issues that the regions raise. We therefore consider this attempt to be incomplete - we do not know the reasons and do not concern us below - but unfortunately it is not only incomplete and authoritative for the future, it is in the wrong direction. That is why we remain in our position and our opposition to the vote on this bill. That is why, as soon as we have had the floor with our rapporteur, Apostle Pana, and the request for a roll-call vote at the beginning of the bill, because this principle is wrong and this principle is the first thing to change. Minor changes, improvements and modifications do not change the negative character. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u158	And I thank Mr. Kegeroglu. After the Step is ready, the reason for the New Democracy - Peter Spanakis has the floor. Mr. Spankee, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u159	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have a bill to see what it strengthens and what it supports. This bill with simple words, in simple terms, supports the Greek land. It supports Greek products. Over 12 000 traders and producers benefit from this bill. Things go in a row. They solve pathogens of the past. They leave behind what we call 'unfair competition'. We are strengthening the Greek economy with the arrangements of this bill, while at the same time giving the opportunity for new jobs, for increasing employment, and above all for talking about opportunities. So, at the same time, this bill is also an opportunity bill. Today a professional seller with this bill can pass on to his relatives, first or second, so that at last no cost can see a flexibility in the procedures. And what do we see and what have we noticed in the last few days? Some party lips of SYRIZA react without argument to a bill that has been made with great diligence by Minister Adoni Georgiadis, Deputy Minister Papathanassis, and with consultation and dialogue and with an effort to resolve matters seriously. It brings great advantages to this bill, ladies and gentlemen. Remember what we received when you took back licences because there were incomes, for example from other sources? We solve this with this bill. See what else this bill solves? A man who's in the people's markets and goes to retirement has the ability to continue working? Ladies and gentlemen, one could refer in detail to many articles in this bill, but let me talk about specific things. Today's bill brings a modern regulatory framework for the whole range of rural trade, which is why it sets specific categories. It brings improvements to safety and hygiene conditions. It introduces new technologies for better service to professionals and consumers. Clears the scenery with the seats. It clears the landscape about producers and traders. It brings transparency. And one cannot claim that there was no need for changes. The representatives of operators have told us that in many regions there are no or specific rules of operation in place. There are many distortions, injustices, exploitation and minimum control. We leave all this in the past and bring equality, transparency and, above all, fiscal consciousness. It also gives opportunities, such as opportunities for professionals to participate in ESDP programmes. The purpose of the draft law is to regulate existing forms of economic activity in the field of rural trade, to establish new forms of outdoor commercial activities, to regulate citizens’ compliance control, to digitise administrative procedures and to operate, to establish a stable and clear framework for supervision and control of the relevant market. The categories of rural trade are defined: organised outdoor markets, in particular the popular markets, the people's markets that close in a few years' time, standard popular markets, short-term markets, food and drink markets, so-called street food, craftsmen's and artists' markets and organic producers' markets, while we have a steadfast trade and global trade. Similarly, licenses or attestations such as a producer's license to folk, a professional salesman's license to folk. We have this important separation here, and as we will see in other articles, to any natural or legal person, only one authorisation is allowed. There is also a certificate of activity on a rabies market, the license of a producer in the world trade and other categories. With regard to legal persons, the more specific provisions concern only agricultural cooperatives, agricultural cooperatives and social cooperatives. It is also made at this point, in particular in Article 6, that there are no companies and great interests on the people's markets. This danger with this bill leaves once and for all for these traders who are fighting a daily for survival and the rent. Article 11 sets out the conditions and conditions for granting placement on organised markets and on stable trade. Place with authorisation and place with authorisation shall be indicated on the licence. The renewal of the licence shall also entail the renewal of the post. Just like that. All authorisations shall be posted to the Integrated Information System ‘INDENT MARKET’. Article 56 refers to all details of this new platform. We also have an obligation to start business for all except for some very specific exceptions under the special VAT arrangements. There is no time to refer to other articles. I would like to refer very briefly, for example, to Article 17 and the famous provision, with 50 % of the production of a producer in order to renew his licence. It is a typical example of how the Government of New Democracy and the Ministers of this Government operate. This provision has been debated very much and changes have been proposed, which Mr Georgiadis promised will change. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is also the provision of Article 19, where all licences with the corresponding positions for all types of outdoor trade may be transferred. It is also the provisions concerning the replacement of a natural person and the possibility for an assistant seller. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe - and thank you very much, Mr President, for the time - that we are all in agreement with the time-consuming value of the institutions of the people's markets and of rural trade in general, especially in times of crisis, as we are experiencing today. We are talking about social work and the professionals of the people's markets support Greek agricultural products, they support Greek producers. We must therefore all support this reform in the field of rural trade, which in no way affects the people's character, but it brings transparency, equal competition, facilities through new technologies and, above all, rules of operation for all, rules that have come to remain for the future of these people's markets. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u160	And we thank Mr. Spanaki. The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Alexandros Triantafylides, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u161	Thank you. Outside of time, in the stratosphere of the uncompromising communal mits. "An unjustified concern for the citizens in fact," said the undersecretary. He has envyd glory of Patolis, commentator of fires and floods, as a commentator of accuracy. "All PPC's increases were absorbed by the government's measures," de facto Minister Papathanassis told the committee. Are you seriously claiming this? How exactly did you absorb them? Like the New Democracy debts to the banks, which, as you housed, increased by 30 million a year with your own signature on the balance sheets, as the general director of your party? Did you reject the accuracy just as you reduced your debts to the Batteries Party? Disguised forceful attempt to devastate citizens - consumers, telling them that what they experience on a daily basis is not accurate, but it is the Zookerberg META. I read, Mr Papathanassis, and you probably didn't say "THA" of the weekend, entitled "How poor are we from accuracy?" Extremely Syrian newspaper! You did not tell the baker, who said 'OPEN', by showing the electricity bills, that with the same KWh last year he had paid EUR 880, and this year, for less than KWh 1,271 euros, about 400 euros for natural gas, the same baker, who will obviously transfer to the price of items, the bread - the main item - from EUR 258 last year for the same period of EUR 502 this year. Let me just remind you that by means of a SYRIZA government, not a single euro increase in electricity. But don't blame me! You built the e-consumer platform. When the people of March in Thessaloniki will have cheaper diller than the folk in Kessariani, they will take the plane to come to Thessaloniki to buy the dill or more correctly, the hay. It's called, Mr. Papathanassis, Mr. Georgiadis, or mocking or air cut or blowing. Serve and rule. You are lurking a history institution of over 90 years of age, an institution created to serve the world of production and work together, unemployed, deprived, low income citizens, to find cheaply fresh quality products, without intermediaries. With what increased people's legitimacy, except by servitude, arrogance and authoritarianism, do you make such a decision, as if even home and society are your niggers? Who are you to ignore governments for nine decades? I stress that they have all improved, but they have not dismantled the institution with the freedom, as you are doing now, by referring the "imperator" Minister to decide everything. Did you not vote three years ago SYRIZA's Law 4497, creating a wide-ranging parliamentary acceptance of that law? What's going on? Your district managers tell you that these provisions are inappropriate, inapplicable. You are crushing the weak people's markets, similar to the supermarkets in the obligations that have a turnover of over 90 million, while at the same time you are putting fines on them that do not pay for the supermarkets, such as the removal of the license and the loss of position. Today, with this bill, you, the Members of the New Democracy, with your vote and signature, put an end to the myth of "the People's Right", making in cold blood small producers and small traders and professionals of the people's markets, favouring scandalously the big traders, middlemen, best friends and big chains. You are all fifty and eighty-eight Members of the New Democracy co-responsible and one - one separately. People themselves, with their posted black flags, imply that they consider you unwanted to the people. Have you wondered how citizens will cope with their obligations in the difficult winter that comes? You are indiscriminately political schizophrenic! When your ideological obsessions or election notes actually impact the worst on reality! Do we have fires? You're discharged five thousand OAED forest guards. Result: One and a half million burnt areas, hundreds of damaged properties. Do we have a pandemic? Inhibit seven thousand sanitary, close ICUs, falsely declare that there are no tubes outside of the ICU. Come to Thessaloniki, let's go to "Papanikolaou", "Papageorgiou", "AHEPA", "Hippocrates", see if there's any intubated, Mr. Papathanassis and Mr. Georgiadis outside the ITH. She gave you - this is called incapacity - eighteen new Ms. Angelopoulos - Daskalaki. In April, when the Prime Minister arrived, he opened the eighteen new ITHs at "Papanikolaou". Until today, half of them do not work with the other half with the staff that you bring from "Agios Dimitrios" and "Greek". Why? Because you do not believe in the ESS because you did not hire permanent staff, as the 3rd RES had already told you, with specific specifications, doctors, nurses, etc. Do we have a pandemic? You plan to close public hospitals, as Mr. Mitsotakis said, by renting private clinics. Six thousand cases we have today? More students per class. Merges everywhere. Is that accurate? You're closing the folk. What? The elbow of the poor, unemployed, apocalyptic, to put a dish of food on his table. Is the current accurate? You sell PPC and the gas. In other words, you can assign the only tools to control and influence prices and competition downwards. The apparent political schizophrenia has an explanation. The election deals of rushfette service in the big supermarket chains. This is how the closed system of political, economic and media power is built. The disappearance through the absence of liquidity through the non-loan from the banks of the small and medium-sized enterprises, the small producer, the small trader, the small trader, i.e. the backbone of the country's productive trunk leads to the oligopolistic situations, because the few are more easily closed down by the funds. Is that why you're telling them? Either unite or we'll wipe you out. But when SYRIZA puts it as an amendment - that is, the reduction of excise duty - you, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis, reject it. When the professional associations of the fuel industry in our country propose the same. Publicly, the President of the Attica Association of Venices, Mrs Zaga, said that it could not be EUR 1.5 for gasoline 1 euro - has gone to 1.9 - to be taxes. You are right, Madam President, Mrs Zaga, but how will your Mitsotakis pay the double-wage poster with double-wage wages? How will PPC Golden Boys be paid for the 1000 euros a day? How are you gonna pay the "Gurch" hospital managers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u162	In conclusion, Mr Triantafylides, you have exceeded time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u163	In short, seven proposals on our side. Today the proposal has been tabled. Not to hide Mr Mitsotakis, to come to Parliament and to answer what is the number one problem with the pandemic, in fact. Increase the minimum wage to EUR 800. Eliminate the fee of an independent profession. Abolition of the solidarity levy for all civil servants, pensioners, self-employed and farmers who have an annual income of up to EUR 40,000. Extensive income support for farmers and reimbursement of excise duty on diesel. Extension of the monthly ceiling to forty-eight of twenty-four for accredited debts created during the fiscal years - krone -2020 and 2021...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u164	Close, Mr. Triantafylides. We don't have a general question. Completely, you've been to nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u166	It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u167	I had the feeling that the same thing as the other colleagues spoke for two minutes, so I would have...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u168	Don't get that feeling. As long as I'm presided over, I didn't see that. But close it, because you're causing now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u169	I'll be done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u170	You insult me, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u171	What am I doing? Am I invoking?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u172	Shut up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u173	You're cynical. You could not tell the producers more clearly. You want a bench on the people's markets? The solution is one: messengers. Intermediates everywhere, in everything, for everyone. You are the middlemen's party, not farmers and farmers. You're the party of air-tighters, not the producers. You're the party of parasitic speculators, not the party...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u175	We with consumers, you with interests. We with the producers, you with the middlemen. The time will come when you will be judged by the people for all this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, please, on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u177	Here, Mr Simopoulos, explain what the staff you are asking for is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, my colleague from Thessaloniki has said the hundreds of eightty-eight majority Members essentially schizophrenic and because I am one of the schizophrenics I want to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u179	Here, come in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u180	The hundred and fifty-eight, therefore, according to my colleague, schizophrenics, are the ones who, in their efforts and in the absolute cooperation with the Minister, have brought a bill that, in his final form, is embraced by the people's markets. Why - I remind you - that the majority...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u181	Is that why they lifted black flags, Mr. Simopoulos?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u182	The majority of federations from all over Greece are in favour of the bill and disagrees...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u183	Black flags are up, Mr. Simopole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u184	Mr. Triantafylides, you are also from a distance and you are on holiday. We heard you without interrupting for ten and a half minutes. So don't open the microphone, you'll force me to interrupt you from here and I don't want it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u185	So he disagrees with the bill with a federation of producers from Athens that he is leading - and well doing, his right is - a man who was candidate for the SYRIZA ballots and a federation from Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u186	It's not personal, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u187	It's schizophrenia, though. Now I need to speak with a little psychiatric terms.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u188	It's not personal, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u189	Explain the staff, I think, and understand it. He's been called schizophrenic and he's answering.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u190	To staff!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u191	You will not guide what will answer the reason he has asked.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u192	He's going to give you a personal answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u193	Go on, Mr. Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u194	I shall conclude, Mr President. In Psychiatric there is the term pseudo-environment. The subject creates a false environment different from reality. It reacts to the pseudo-environment, while the real environment reacts on it. That is how my colleagues have created a bill and argue on something that does not exist. As for the psychiatrists of the majority, I think it was an unfortunate moment for my colleague from Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr. Simopoulos. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs. Rallia Christidou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say how poor the Greek Parliament is without the Gennamas. A key message that I choose and I think she would also like to remain together with an important political path in a man-made space and with its dignity and combatability is the obsession, if I may say so, with the National Health System. The strengthening of the National Health System in practice and not in the words, as we see it today, as a reserve for future generations. Another thing that will remain engraved in the memory of the Greek people was that encouragement to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, saying that certain issues such as health issues are not matters for communication and consumption - as she said - and these are issues that need a greater humanity. We shall now proceed to the agenda. The bill we are debating today, ladies and gentlemen, comes to give another economic blow to the average Greek household, while the other political choices of the government have already damaged it in too many ways. The expensive energy, PPC, natural gas, gas, the goods that have been taken up. Telecommunications. Everything is irreversible and expenditure that is not regulated by the government's final officials, by the government's ultimately incomplete, as it alone proposes to prolong debts. They are, however, left to immoral oligopoly to already break weak households, which are doubtful if they will succeed in the winter they have already come. All access to the people's, especially to the small and many, was annoyed by the government, because it left citizens free choices and plunged prices. It enabled both producers and citizens to trade and win, with good prices and warm money to others, with good products and variety for all the suitcases to others. Basically, that was - and it is - the people in the conscience of the world and that is why he actually trusts it for so many years, for quality, seasonality, prices and personal relationship with the producer of his choice. Thus, however, the wholesalers and brokers were left out of the balance, while the world is financially under pressure on the people's market. So it had to be checked, ladies and gentlemen, and this piece of pie. The proclamations of supposedly rationalisation and modernisation have finally brought a bill so bad, for which you are proud, that the only - supposedly - benefit to the citizen is to find through a cell phone to which people in Attica are cheaper tomato, as if someone were going to change municipality to go shopping. In the meantime, we are talking about the same citizen who is increasingly choosing to go to market closure to find cheaper prices. Unfortunately, despite the pressure from all interested parties and the changes made to the bill, its main negative point was not changed in terms of the gradual humiliation of producers from the people, as the condition of the participation of at least 50% of the producers against professionals is abolished, a provision brought by SYRIZA and had voted by New Democracy in 2017 and is now changing it without any justification. At the same time, the producer's licence is turned into a folk position and therefore the producer's ability to extend and use the licence where he wishes to do so has been lost so far, since the other conditions have been met. While the Government exhausts all the class rigour on the producers it keeps all dueness for private college owners, and even so provocatively, to include articles such as Articles 71 and 72, on the easier licensing within that bill, with the exception of all good legislatures and without, of course, having consulted anyone, other than those who comes to benefit, as OEL denounced in the hearing of bodies. It is extremely problematic that a training organisation requesting an authorisation from the EEAS will be deemed to be licensed if it is only within five months that it is not controlled by the Agency and will be automatically licensed. If the EEAP is under-represented, the solution is to strengthen it by staff rather than to grant authorisations without control and without legal consequences, neither to those who did not control nor, of course, to those who did not qualify. This arrangement should be withdrawn as it affects building security and maintenance conditions including the building's stagnation, but also any arbitrariness in construction, whether the conditions set for the pandemic are met, if there are provision for access to the building for disabled persons, etc. Schools and centres of foreign languages are now licensed by informing their diplomas and by almost anything else. We therefore need more systematic monitoring, both in terms of structures and buildings, and in terms of the objects and qualifications of teachers. The lack of control here does not favour entrepreneurship even under the conditions defined by the New Democracy. Immunity also favours bad businessmen at the expense of the good. Ladies and gentlemen, it is unacceptable for the government to legislate so opportunely and discriminatoryly in the interests of some. The bill came from one end of rigour to the other end of leniency, depending on who has it to the other. On the one hand, we have a moleculosis to exclude more producers in the people's and restrictions so that they can take no more leave, but a place in a folk. There are other terms and conditions in each folklore and forbidding fines. Even if a producer forgets within a year, two years, no matter how much he loses his license. On the other hand, we have a display of bias without a precedent, with articles relating to another Ministry - and you will do the same in tomorrow's bill - and other objects within the same bill, where the government shows a completely different person, a person tolerating and simplify procedures for private educational institutions that are infinitely more serious than those described before and at a real risk for trainers and teachers. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I should like to close, Mr President, by saying this: any changes to educational and traineeships have been redesigned and simplified in order to facilitate some in the interests of the social majority. The social majority, which we say again, will be the ones who will pay more and the people's products too soon. Many are forced to stay outside the public university, they are the ones who are forced to go to private educational establishments, they are the ones who are licensed after secret audit procedures. But these many - and I am closing and thanking you for the tolerance, Mr President - are the ones who will give you an answer very soon. And this answer, be sure and sure, ladies and gentlemen of the government, that you won't like it at all. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mrs. Christidou. The Minister has asked for the floor. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr President. I have forgotten to refer to this subject and I take the floor to refer to Mrs Christidou' s previous report, which has been mentioned with such a narrow voice on the subject of provisions relating to private schools and the free-of-charge centres, which are included in the bill. My colleague accused us that the simplification of the procedure with the notification and automatic authorization after some time has elapsed is unacceptable. I have taken you somewhere, not on purpose, but because I have forgotten to deal with this matter. I explained it to Mr. Haritsis when he asked me to the committee and I thought he had informed you. The specific article on the simplification of private schools, private education in this bill, Mrs Christidou and colleagues of SYRIZA, is the implementation of the SYRIZA Memorandum and the implementation of the SYRIZA Simplifications Act 2016. As you recall, I have so far brought two different laws, as required by the memorandum you voted on, to simplify a series of business activities in tourism, health, workshops, etc. Both relevant laws, Mrs Christidou, my own laws, SYRIZA voted for them in the House, precisely because these laws came as a result of your original 2016 law and the commitments that were provided with a strict timetable to have made these specific simplifications. The only reason that private schools and private schools had not come to date and have come separately to this bill today is that the Ministry of Education had not completed the negotiation with the institutions by the time we tabled and voted for the second simplification law, where it would normally be an article in this law, continued negotiation with the institutions and during the summer and we promised the institutions that the first bill of the Ministry of Development would include these articles. What I would like to say to you, then, is that you have charged a number of articles which are the result of your previous law and the application of your earlier commitments. If I hadn't brought these articles separately into the bill of People's Markets, but it was on time in the second bill on simplifications, you personally, Mrs Christidou, would have voted for it. I say this as an example of how much Parliament's debate is finally about shade and between deaf ones. The articles on which Mrs Christidou spoke are SYRIZA articles and pursuant to the SYRIZA memorandum. So, at some point, if you want to talk - I repeat, ladies and gentlemen, and seriously as Members of Parliament, we must in fact know why we are talking about. In short, you said the voice - and I am forced to say it once again - of the terrible bill with the dragonian fines that remove the license from the workers' biopalests of the people's markets. Our law, the one we are voting on today, is milder in terms of fines and in less cases removes the license, for a shorter time, from the law already in force in SYRIZA. I read to you, Mr President, to inform Mrs Christidou what the law currently in force is: 'If within one year it has been established that the seller has been subject to the same infringement of the law, the fine is double'. What fine? The 1,000 euros. ‘If it is initially provided for as a penalty - be careful - the temporary withdrawal of the licence, then in the event of a repetition of the infringement it is necessary to definitively withdraw the licence, irrespective of the time of the infringement. This is Article 55 of the law of SYRIZA. Fourth paragraph: ‘The licence shall be temporarily withdrawn for six months if, over two years, the beneficiary has been subject to any infringement of the law for more than four times’. If it has been subject to four infringements within two years, the department which has registered and confirmed the latter shall inform the beneficiary in writing of the consequences of an additional infringement. In other words, you removed the permission for six months or forever four consecutive infringements. We only remove the licence in one case, in the event that the check on a folk bench, which is required by the code of books and evidence, has a cash machine and has no, not that it has cut off a receipt, but that has never cut off any proof. He's the only one who loses his license. And we are always talking about the number of infringements, the number of checks, i.e. no proof. I mean, I'm gonna catch you having your first check, let me catch you having a second and third check - as we did now - then we're putting the fines we've anticipated. So what is true is that the law we are voting on today, Mrs Rallia Christidou, and the rest of SYRIZA, is softer than what you have voted on. I'm telling you, we can get through this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u199	Mr President, I would like to speak for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u200	Mrs Christidou, you cannot take the floor but your parliamentary representative.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u201	On staff, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u202	There was no personal matter. There was the Minister's answer to what you claimed. If a colleague of yours who follows to the Stepma wants to say some things, he can. Otherwise the parliamentary representative can speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u203	On personal grounds, Mr President, I would like to speak for less than a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u204	Although you don't deserve to know why there wasn't any staff, take the reason why I shouldn't ruin your grace for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u205	I won't need a minute. I would first like to thank the Minister for having mentioned my name by way of derogation and in violation of the Rules of Procedure, over five to six times. So thank you very much. Of course you are violating the Rules of Procedure and you who have been a Member for so many years and have so many experiences, as you mentioned before, should have known that. Secondly, you really deserve congratulations because you have a huge quality that everyone recognizes. What's that? The fact that you have introduced a school into political life, a school of stress, that is, listen to something and translate it according to what you want to show the world. With regard to my narrow voice, which you have been ironic, I would like to say this: with your own voice that usually catches a very high scale, with great pleasure for you to send you to a teacher to make you rational. And the last thing, because I told you that I won't need a minute: it is an honor for you to say that I and SYRIZA are wrong and we don't know or read and we don't know what the articles say in the draft laws you bring. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mr Xanthopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u207	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, as the Head of Justice, I shall begin with a procedure. After a year of consultation and drafting comes a law without a explanatory statement, and you must take note of that because it concerns the quality of the legislative work. Of course, it is not a prerequisite today, but it is indicative that for this part you have actually covered the failure lately by renewing a text that exists in consultation. 25% of the articles provide for seventeen ministerial decisions. You understand that, in fact, the legislative procedure followed by the House depends on factors other than public debate and public controversy. On the substance of the matter now. Principle of Wisdom of Visiting Names. And we're talking about the bill of the people's market. Is that a popular market? What does a people's market mean in the common sense? It is the market that has a life of a century and is a place for producers to meet with consumers. Is the draft law reinforced, implemented, the content of the historic route, but also the living reality, the term'real market'? In our view, no. And I really want to contribute to the discussion seriously that you have in mind a model of business activity that in the big part of Greek society does not find a response. In other words, in the province - I come from Drama, and I assure you - the people's market is a meeting place, a social consortium cell. The producers are coming, the consumers who trade to sell their products and the others are supposed to survive in order to obtain cheap products, and of course at a good price and excellent quality. So what are you doing with intervention? You turned the license from a producer license into a professional license. It is not the role of the people's market that you want to give. The right of persons to leave - as we are talking about lawyers - comes true. And so the person who has a licence, whoever is a small seller, ceases to be a licensed retailer and holds a license he sells. Further overthrow the 50% ratio, which means that there is virtually no limit if market professionals or producers enter a popular market. Perhaps that's your goal. Politics is predicted to remove all kinds of obstacles so that entrepreneurship can proceed with your own logic. In practice, however, you are also undermining the institutions of the people's markets and the possibility of producers having a means to be biopollutant. I would also like to put a social parameter which does not appear in your bill. Minister, most commonly people, and small sellers and producers, are people of popular order. They are groups I can say to the limits of the social margin, Roma, people who have no other chance. So these people, basically through this process, earn a living and remain active in the social fabric. If these people are ridiculed by the process of the people's market, in addition to the damage that consumers will suffer, they are also harming themselves because they are actually being expelled into the social margin. If a person has a way to walk, to make a living for many years and in this direction acts when you remove that possibility, you realize that you are not leaving him almost anything. And it's obvious and self-evident where he'll turn to survive. The course of the people's markets, as you are transforming it, is essentially a straightforward analogy with the course of the Greek economy. It started for producers and will end up for consumers. You, too, are actually transforming it from producers and giving it to entrepreneurs. This is the main criterion and the main point on which we come to the public debate. You change the core of the operation of the people's market and you exemplify those who are supposedly living from the operation of the people's market. Our rapporteur and our parliamentary representative, as well as the other speakers, have referred to the individual. I would like to end by saying this: you are deporting producers and driving us to the big food shops. The existing institutional framework is fading out, where, instead of a licence, there will be a position and the core of the bill on how the people's market works. The criteria you set to take the position are incomprehensible to people who, as I said, are small sellers and many of them are at the edge of the social margin. In fact, by overthrowing '50% -50%' you exclude producers' representatives from themselves on the people's market, and of course you dismantle the consumer's markets, since you are abolishing Article 37 without any justification. So I would like an explanation. Finally, Minister, if there is a problem of the functioning of the people's markets, let us see and deal with it. But changing the structure of the people's market, where a auction safari will be made to get a place, cannot be accepted. Of course, that is why we are voting against it as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u208	And we thank Mr. Xanthopopoulou. Mr Kallipe Vetta is now calling for the SYRIZA MEP at Step. Here, Mrs. Vetta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u209	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill confirms in the clearest way that the government in its attempt to implement its hard neoliberal agenda ignores reality and systematically attacks the rights of small and medium-sized groups. In fact, it shows a huge analgesia as it reorientates the scene of popular markets attacking both producers and traders, at a time when the health crisis brings the whole society together. At a time when we have a record of cases, such as those of sadness and victims, the government chooses to target a sector that has paid a heavy price for incompetence, frustration and cunning decisions of the relevant ministers. At the same time, a demonstration of political amoralism attacks the people's markets, a long and established institution in Greek society. In popular markets the consumer can find cheap and quality goods, while the producer can place his products without intermediaries and brokers. If people's markets were always the refuge for our fellow citizens who wanted to buy good and economic products, today with rising prices and uncontrolled accuracy, they are almost necessary for their survival. That is why they also enjoy the confidence of Greek society. The Institute of Consumers in its research reports that consumers are very or totally happy about 80% of the prices of products on the popular market, while they consider that producers are necessary for popular markets at around 95%. At the same time, producers after the very strong weather phenomena of 2021, which was one of the most devastating years for crops, are faced with fines, bureaucratic burdens and sanctions. At the same time, they see their cost of production rising daily from electricity, the oil oil which has reached outrageous levels, the agricultural supplies and feed, where the rises have even exceeded 60%. Finally, they note that this year's advance payment of the basic aid is reduced by EUR 63 million, which makes it difficult to recover them. And what is the Minister's answer to this perfect storm? It is a bill of another, with reference to future opaque ministerial decisions, undemocratic, without safeguarding the rights of producers, without guaranteeing the quality of the products supplied. I shall briefly refer to just a few points in order to substantiate my criticism. Initially, the bill is governed by curiosity. It comes after a year of consultation, preliminary drafts and withdrawals, while it provides for a series of future ministerial decisions - seventeen ministerial decisions in sixty-eight provisions - revealing the effectiveness of the provisions. The main point to be introduced by Articles 6 and 11 is that instead of a licence there will now be a place in the folk who will be given a competition. In other words, the licence that was the core of the operation of the markets is abolished. There are molecular criteria, such as degrees, which creates reasonable reflection for thousands of producers. It is also a very important point of opposition that the provision of Law 4197/2017 should be abolished, according to which the coverage of the premises should have been established at 50% for licences to producers. Today there is no guarantee that after the competitive process there will be this provision. Provisions for removal of a licence, due to not being disposed, also, of 50% of the estimated production, are inapplicable and unreasonable as they do not take into account a poor quality crop. The representatives of producers and retailers from the decision-making process shall also be excluded under Article 26. Anti-democracy and opacity everywhere! A serious issue arises with penalties for tax infringements, as with three different fines the authorisation is effectively removed for six months at the beginning and the offender will then have to wait if and when a tender procedure will be reintroduced. No one has any objection to the consolidation of the culture of tax obligations on all responsible citizens. However, I would like to ask myself, like my colleagues, whether the same provisions apply, the same sanctions and the same penalties in housing trade, or we have a breach of equality. If, according to Article 56, anyone cannot, for any reason, introduce the quantity available and the starting price into the system by 8 o'clock in the morning, they are faced with a fine of EUR 500, which is not in any other case a retail trade. Also, in the entire bill there is no reference to food safety or to the fact that there is no possibility of ever-increasing products. This proves a great deal that you do not care about the quality of food sold on the people's markets. In short, with this bill, people are transformed into commercial markets with the aim of shrinking and dismantling them. Producers enter second degree. The fines affect the principle of proportionality and justice, while it is not ensured that the market for consumers remains accessible. Ladies and gentlemen, today's bill has been severely criticised by the vast majority of producers, as well as by their institutional bodies, who are even talking about tombstones in people. The bill is completely in the wrong direction. Producers and farmers will have a lot of obstacles to stand in the people, while consumers will not shop directly by producers, but by traders and brokers. As in housing, small and medium-sized property, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, the government is forcefully attempting to move towards a centralisation by removing from the backbone of Greek society the means of production, work and perspective. On the substance of the bill, the bill is another link in the above logic, which it finds perpendicular to Greek society. To conclude, I say that you may temporarily be covered, gentlemen of the government, behind the great proclamations, the falsification of reality and the outdated image of your friendly media, but the period of grace and tolerance has long ended. The countdown for your removal has already begun. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u210	And we thank Mrs. Vetta. The speaker of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Ioannis Golias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this bill, the most important part of which relates to rural trade regulations, the Government of New Democracy is making an euphemism of reform and modernisation of the framework for the organization and operation of such a vital and essential sector for producers and consumers of popular consumption. Our objections to this piece of legislation focus on the many cases of stress, pressure and strict regulations introduced. At the same time, the broad and numerous arrangements for which ministerial decisions will be adopted in the future, which are certainly not expected to be just regulatory. In other words, the Minister will legislate arbitrarily and completely. On the one hand, it is unbearable and unbearable, but, on the other, ambiguities and gaps, which need to be referred back to the experts of power. I would now like to look at the history of this legislative initiative, which certainly does not work out the fruits of a sound, fair and honest open dialogue with the social partners and the people. The bill has been in operation for over a year. From the beginning of February, leaks began and, as expected, they met the reaction and anger of both producers and small and medium-sized traders and consumers. Your first attempt has therefore been unsuccessful and so a new approach has emerged to enforce the arrangements you have planned. You followed his known tactic "divides and reigns". You have closed your eyes to professionals and with micro-services and false promises, you have sought to turn one category of people of the people against the other in order to create a breach, which, to some extent, may be temporary. Let us now move on to the indicative listing of unfortunate, distorting, unfair and even illegal provisions embodied in the draft law. Firstly, your commitment to strict restrictive measures and in many authoritarian measures imposed by harsh legislative provisions, in fact, to a threat of particularly burdensome administrative fines, proves to be a paramount one. Who can handle this? The small farmer and the small merchant? The definition of these, but also the regulation of the way the people's markets operate, is entrusted solely to administrative and executive bodies, which are neither shadowly involved by the representatives of the people, who are the ones who form the live cell of the people, nor, of course, by the users of the people's markets. The SYRIZA Government has established a innovative, substantial and effective way of organic producers by establishing and operating regional market management committees - producers of SAR, with five-member committees, composed of two producer representatives, a representative of cooperatives, municipalities and consumers. It is essentially a question of self-regulation by the participants, either as suppliers and consumers of the goods made available in the premises of that activity. Institution that has succeeded. So why didn't you want to incorporate those provisions of the operation that apply to biological? Do you believe that only strict administration and disciplinary coercive will cooperate in the smooth functioning of markets? The question, of course, is rhetorical, because you have already made your choices. Consider the producers and small businessmen immature for self-regulation of the folk. On the other hand, you are asking them to enter the Internet, the electronic portal - knowing who trades and who acts in the people - to declare quantities and prices of every kind willing of their products, regardless of their age, of knowledge, of a level of education that everyone has, at the same time as before they have drawn up, Mr. President, the sun loaded, traveled one or two hours and set up their benches. So these people, I don't think you're helping them do their work. The 50-50 equilibrium for producers and professionals was and operated smoothly and at a balance. Why did you want to disturb it? Do you know that consumer complaints are that they want and seek to obtain as many species as possible from the producers themselves who know them, trust them, because they have shopped and get cheap and fresh products? Thirdly, issuing licences at last, I think it is the lyric of our difference and our disagreement. All those who deserve it and who do not qualify for the post, whose acquisition is excessively burdened and, in fact, throws the small producer out, should continue to be provided on an equal footing. We talked about the CSI. You withdrew it. The criteria for authorizing professionals are granted 10 molecules to single parents. Why not in the licensed producers? Why don't you follow the same system? The 20 molecules of higher education graduates have become a badly-famous joke, which is heard in the villages and fields, unfortunately. The period laid down for the six months within which the transfer of the licence referred to in Article 19 must have taken place is very short is six months. At least one year is necessary. We are dealing with crops, most of which are single, either treey or arables. When will the successor be able to cultivate and make his decision? In accordance with Article 22, only first-degree relatives may replace the holder of a production licence. Why not for the second grades, for which the holder's presence on the basis of your plan is required? I think you will also know that it is common to obtain a licence for two joint employees, who have typically and essentially common crops, and one stays in the fields and harvests the products, and the other goes to the people. It is the example of the two brothers or grandparents and grandchildren. As you regulate that, however, it is not permissible. Finally, the provisions which are threatening to be suspended and, in fact, to be eliminated from the people are too harsh - all my fellow Members have said so - inappropriate and extermination. We're talking about poor people. In fact, they introduce a new regulation that is controlled for constitutionality, since no other business or marketing regulations are laid down. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you for the tolerance - I must refer to what I have just said. The area of the people's markets is a vital, essential feeder and a zoogen both for those who have their products and for us consumers, namely small and medium-sized ones. The New Democracy's secret pursuits for despair of the people and surrender to the Bulgarian interests of the major business interests, even if it is voted on by you, will not be implemented, as it will be cancelled in practice with the struggles of all affected traders producers and consumers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u212	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u213	Mr President, personal speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u214	Mr. Simopole, I'm sorry, you can't keep taking the floor on staff. Tell me what the reason is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u215	He showed me when he said, "We don't know" and said, "Listen, Mr. Comrade"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u216	Well, it's not a personal matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u217	And he said so, Mr. President, to a man who grew up...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u218	Please, anyone can claim it. If you wish, inform the Parliamentary representative. I'm the one who arranges the procedure. Before we go to our colleagues through Webex - because they are in Athens and so we always do - the reason is Mr Theophilos Letonaridis, Member of the New Democracy. Immediately after that, all the other colleagues are with Webex, and they are Mr von Wogau. Irene Agathopoulos, Zesis Gikalayas, Evangelos Apostolos and George. Loyadis. Mr. Lionides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u219	Ladies and gentlemen, historically the first people's market was set in Thessios Square in May 1929 and the presence of Prime Minister Eleftherios Venizelos with the basket in his hand of shopping products showed the determination of the government at the time to introduce this new measure. After all, the speculation of the middlemen had become scourge and the economic crisis was before the gates. Even the organizers of the institution might not have known the popularity that would have enjoyed and the way that would affect the daily lives of the citizens of this new project. Since then, the foundation of the people's markets in Greece has been established by achieving fully the purpose for which it was founded. What was that purpose? To provide consumers with quality and, above all, at a good price for agricultural products. also bring the producer, without the participation of intermediate steps, in direct contact with consumers. After all, today there are thousands of families throughout Greece who support their biopolitics in the people's markets. This draft law aims to modernise the institutional framework of rural trade in order to benefit by applying thousands of producers, millions of consumers, and to organise their operation in a fair manner. After an extensive consultation, where the Minister accepted many proposals from all the wings of the House, which show that the government hears and adopts constructive ideas from wherever they come from, improving the bill, the sterile political speech of counter-population, which we are accustomed to, is an applied tactic that no one believes. Furthermore, the Minister as a market man during the period when we had Lockdown supported the people's markets, safeguarding their uninterrupted functioning. In conclusion, the aim of the bill is to reform and modernise the popular markets, to become a point of attraction with more work for producers - exhibitors and to better serve citizens consumers. Many are the areas introduced with this in order to substantially upgrade their operation. One of them is the introduction of the integrated information system ‘INDENT MARKET’. To date, there has been no full recording and organisational control in this area. With this system the whole process of functioning the people's markets becomes electronic using modern technologies, facilitating citizens and the institutions of the state in their supervisory role. As the Minister and other colleagues have rightly pointed out, the people's markets were operating in a way, not so transparent - to put it stylishly - and now, with the introduction of the information system, they are ambitious of entering a class in this foggy landscape. This will make it possible for them to be supervised, which until now was impossible. A second very important section of the bill is that the positions of young people - and I stress it, young sellers - will now be proclaimed after it has been cleared how many of them are, where they are on the basis of objective and social criteria they will have the right to claim them. The procedure of the notice clearly concerns new authorisations. There will be molecules so that those who have no access or acquaintances can claim a place in the sun. Those who hold licences and do not hold positions will be given positions prior to the announcement of new ones. It is important for people's markets to function in terms of transparency, equal competition and fiscal consciousness. The notice on new licences will be issued twice a year and that is the minimum. I propose that it be done more often, three times a year, so that the producers concerned are not excluded from the public markets for a long time. With regard to penalties and, in particular, to those deprivation of a licence for non-issuance, it is necessary not to impose two proofs, as the Qualitative Opposition claimed incorrectly, but to attest infringements of different tax controls, i.e. three of two, which were initially different checks to establish infringements of non-issuance. I would also like to point out that the people's markets are not delivered to the organized major interests, as the opposition is wrongly demanded, nor of course the bill is directed against the producers. Also, to make it clear, people's markets are not privatised, and in no case is it allowed to operate in them. On the contrary, the popularity of the people's markets and small free professionals is being maintained. The third section introduced by this bill is the introduction of data transmission on the e-consumer platform daily with quantities, quality and price for starting products by producers and professionals to improve the information system for citizens on prices. Fourthly, very important point relating to legal certainty, in my opinion, is that the existing licences in no case lose the slightest privilege of what they have had up to now in terms of power and mode of transfer. The announcement of new posts will not compete with others who are interested in getting new licences. It is also very important that the vacancies, which will be opened, will be published first in the 'Guarantee', thus strengthening the transparency of the whole process. Fifth, in order to ensure that the public are active in the people, the main profession of which will be the people's market, is laid down as a necessary condition for the resale to them of at least 50% on the producer's statement, i.e. how much he will sell on the people's markets for the items mentioned in his licence and not in accordance with the OSCE declaration, which is being moved by ignorance. All these arrangements and many others, included in the bill, due to their innovative nature, require time to adapt and the Ministry gives them. The terminal is defined as the entry into force of 1 February 2022, so that there are no surprises and the parties concerned can be properly prepared. Finally, as far as Article 66 is concerned, there is a clarification of the duration of the licences for sellers in five years, so that there is no concern that we are putting them every year to do the renewal process. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law brings substantial areas to bear in the way the rural markets and especially the peoples are organized and operated. Its implementation will help to improve their operation without affecting their philosophical character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u220	And we thank Mr. Leonardis. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs. Irene Agathopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u221	Thank you very much, Mr President. You will allow me to begin by saying that today is a very bad day for my city, Kilkis. Northern Greece, in general, is in a very bad state of pandemic. At Kilkis we have had a very increased number of cases every day for two weeks and today we have also had two deaths of a coronary, which have shocked the local society, a fellow pharmacist and a very dear man, an active citizen, a dear personal friend and friend of all Kilkis, who will really miss us from our daily lives. We're both gonna miss them. While human lives are still being lost at a very fast pace, while health workers are falling down in front and behind cameras, the Government on others is cursing and how much it is interested in finally strengthening the ESS, no matter how much calls we have made. But let me come to the bill. Listening to the Minister's defence of it, I really felt that he either exists and lives in another society or me. It doesn't explain otherwise the visual gap between us. No matter how often it takes the word and how much it raises tons, it doesn't convince us about what it says. There is an inconvenience within the Chamber both from the Minister and from the majority rapporteur, who are constantly feeling the need to respond, but there is no need, because the world has now understood. It is obvious that Mr Georgiadis has never set foot on a popular market, he has no idea how popular markets work or how people are shopping on popular markets, so he thinks that if he integrates the sellers of popular markets into the e-consumer platform and forces them every morning to state the prices of their products electronically, he will press on with accuracy. I mean, before I go and every citizen on Saturday to the popular market either of Kilkis, or anywhere, I go to the platform to see the price of tomato and potato, and I do so. It is only funny to think about it and that is why we are all telling you that what you are doing today is inappropriate. The fight against accuracy, Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the government, does not go through the people's markets, but through proposals such as those tabled for a long time by SYRIZA and ignore him, such as increasing the minimum wage, reducing the excise duty on heating and driving, imposing strict controls on cartels on the market, and much more asked by our President and Chief of Staff to be discussed in the next few days on a day's agenda in Parliament, which we hope you will accept, since, as you say, you are also defenders of the fight against accuracy. I'm coming back to the bill. He said Mr. Georgiadis that all the bodies in the end are in favour of the bill. My information says, therefore, that in the confederacy, composed of nine sales unions, everyone is opposed and only one federation has been differentiated. Also, district rulers and mayors, who are on the order of the New Democracy and not ours, are opposed. For the truth, the Kilkis Municipal Council has taken a unanimous resolution against the bill and is drafted with the position of the Federation of Salesmen, as well as the Kilkissios traders and producers who participate in the people, are saying against their President and I have listened to other colleagues for their own regions. So someone's lying, Mr. Georgiadis. So who would that be? Other problematic points, the bill. Apart from exhaustive fines - there are no such fines in the rest of the market - it is also the fact that you leave important matters to be decided on by ministerial decisions, so that Parliament does not pass on. It is also the abolition of consumer markets, which you also voted on in the SYRIZA bill in 2017 for the people's markets, as you voted for the rest of the bill and you abolish it today without any justification. Apart from all this, then, you have come to defend something else, which sounds outrageous in the ears of producers and not just. I am referring to the criteria you are establishing for positions. I will not extend myself to changing permits to post, which affects the already licensed, because other colleagues have done so. You, however, set the criteria for the positions of sellers on the people's markets - among other things - the degree, saying the Minister: ‘How bad is it to set higher criteria and to apply a crop-related degree to producers and under-graduate and so on? Is that so awesome for you? Don't you want there to be an extra motive so that people can be shaped? Do you not want there to be an incentive for the provision of services on the people's markets too?' We ask ourselves: are you talking about this? The same who, by the mouth of a Prime Minister, you said that not all people can study, are now posing a degree as a criterion for a place on the people's market? If your legislation were not dangerous, then, ladies and gentlemen of the government, it would be funny. Unfortunately, however, it is dangerous, because at the same time, for example, you are also abolishing the moleculosis for small and medium-sized enterprises. That's absolute hypocrisy! Your legislation is dangerous, not only for sellers, producers and traders, but above all for citizens themselves, because the people's markets from their establishment have the role of being blocked in fact, being decent markets with quality products and promoting the primary sector indismediately, which rural areas, for example, are in need of, for example, my prefecture. So those are defending those who react to your bill today and there are many people, and you know that, so you have the stress to answer to every speech Member of the House. It's another bill you'll vote for all by yourself. What I said to you above is also in favour of us and we are already committed, by our President and our rapporteur today and yesterday in plenary, to changing the wrong texts of this bill immediately. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mrs Agathopoulos. Mr. Apostleo has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u223	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, only one reference to the history of the people's markets. They were enacted by a presidential decree of Paul Koudouriotis at the end of January 1929, a decree that even defined the days and places to be taken by the people in the neighborhoods of the municipalities. Their success was such that led to the need for a better organization of the institution, its protection, the preservation, the cleanliness of the operating area, and in 1932 the Fund of the People's Markets was established. These are the references to history. Of course, they spread rapidly throughout the country, although at times their abolition was discussed, especially those affected by their operation. However, it has succeeded in establishing the people's markets, because consumers enjoy lower prices, better quality and, above all, they develop the necessary social relations, which build confidence between the producer and the consumer. This is especially the nature of Sunday markets in small towns, in the province, despite the changes in time that have taken place, because other people have also been added to these peoples, residents in the regions, offering goods that were produced in the wider region and covering other needs of the inhabitants, as well as producers. Minister, we fear that your legislative initiative undermines the uninterrupted presence of producers on the people's markets on their own markets. That's exactly what we're interested in. Is it possible to lay down conditions and terms and, in fact, with molecular and competition procedures in the participation of these people, whose whole life is moving between the field and the people's markets? You are trying, Minister, to amend the institutional framework with a virtually useless legislative initiative, which does not exactly indicate what you want to bring, since everything, once again, is referred to ministerial decisions or to joint ministerial decisions. The question is therefore quite reasonable: why is a new law being passed? Do not try to compare it with other legislative initiatives, because your current intervention could be a simple amendment. The targeting for you is the thing. People's markets need another thing at this time when e-commerce has invaded all sectors of the economy. A serious management model. Unfortunately, I think that what is introduced by Article 56 of the integrated open market information system contains very unnecessary bureaucracy. Ladies and gentlemen, once again, the people's markets belong to producers, to small professionals, to consumers and have been established for only one purpose, so that the inhabitants of the regions that operate to obtain their products from their compatriots. This is... (It didn't sound because of a bad connection). But the bill does not seem to understand this and strengthens locality by Article 15 only with five molecules. Minister, I... (it was not heard because of a poor connection) and the modernisation of the regulatory framework is not your bill. Do you not know that local public market addresses cannot cope with the control of the system laid down in this draft law? Why do you not plan to establish legal persons in all regions for their proper functioning? Do you know what that means? That in practice there will be no one to do what is envisaged. You introduce data transmission every morning on a specific platform. Do you not realize that it is impossible for small producers who sell their products, particularly on the province's popular markets, to comply with all the import requirements? Nor do you know that these producers are the backbone of the country's vegetable and fruit production, a sector that is leading our export performance? What's the result? With the first control, most of them fired on the markets. Do you not see that the sanctions procedure is unfair and unequivocal, because it has no escalation, with the result, regardless of the size of the infringement, the producer and the trader, that the penalty is directly imposed for the removal of the position from the people's market? Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close my speech with one more point. When will the IACC's integrated aid management system finally become the instrument that responds to all the issues, from employment documentation to control production related to rural activity? It is not only a means of calculating and paying Community financial aid to producers, but it can also substantiate other parameters. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food has all the infrastructure and staff to carry out this mission. That is why he should have the responsibility of this activity. Thank you for listening.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u224	And we thank Mr. Apostle. I don't see Mr. Jekalaya being connected to Mr. Loyadis either. The list of speakers has therefore been completed. Parliamentary spokesman of the New Democracy, Christos Bukokouros, has the floor now. He will take the floor for the first time. All the other parliamentary representatives spoke. Then there will be a second phase of the rapporteurs, and the procedure will obviously be closed with the Minister's position. Mr. Buquoore, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u225	Mr President, thank you very much. This is one of the bills that went through really exhaustive dialogue. I sincerely wish to express my satisfaction as a Member of Parliament with the leadership of the Ministry of Development and, in particular, with the Minister, Mr Adoni Georgiadis, because this bill on substance we are discussing it four months ago. Because I was from the Members - together with our rapporteur Mr Simopoulos - who has been involved many times and strongly in this debate, I would like to say that today we are voting on a bill, which, on the one hand, does not cause problems for the participants, for the people's market operators and, secondly, for all of us, for the fifty-eight Members of the New Democracy, we are voting on it in full awareness that the aim is to put some order now, in the future, on the people's markets. Ladies and gentlemen, the institutions of the people's markets are indeed dominated by time. We believe that this bill will become even more established. What are the participants in the people's markets, particularly producers and, secondly, retailers? It is what we all want to say that we are advocating for change in the primary sector of entrepreneurship in the primary sector, micro-enterprises. It is the most widespread form of entrepreneurship, even if its size is small, in the primary sector. He is a small businessman, because he is the producer himself who grows, produces his agricultural products and sells them directly to the consumer. So this producer is absolutely not affected by the bill. No acquis rights are harmed. That's clear now. All the associations, all the federations of producers and sellers of popular markets to me, who know that I also participated in their full-scale general assembly and responded directly to more than thirty questions, have welcomed the improvements made to the bill. I say this because of what we have heard and the tons used by SYRIZA Members in the Chamber, it has been attempted to show that a dismantling of the people's markets is going to occur. The organisation and modernisation of the SYRIZA colleagues are being baptized. Such a distortion of reality! I discussed the people of the people's markets and their assembly and the people's markets, in my town, Volos and during the first post of the bill and during the exhaustive discussions that took place in committees, but also as long as the bill is being discussed in plenary. Where and where, then, is the institution of the people's markets being destroyed? Those who are present in the people's markets, whether producers - in fact, by extension, of the length of their licence - or citizens of merchants will not remain in the people's markets? They will remain on better terms and conditions. Does the bill prevent them, by introducing other tax rates or by introducing other heights and more severe administrative fines? None of this is true. Taxation and insurance - like all professionals and farmers - the present government, with previous laws and decisions, has facilitated them by reducing taxes and social security contributions, which the previous government had raised. As far as the administrative fines were concerned, I heard: "You are giving it to the great interests" and "you were chasing the small producer of the people's market for a proof that he is trying to get a dish of food to his home" and other such melodramatically into a desperate attempt to get a political audience. I'm sorry, are the administrative fines tightened or mildened by the bill? Because it is obvious that the previous legal framework provided for the removal of a licence after four tax violations, which is not provided for in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, because it provides for an infringement and not a proof. One infringement may involve ten, twenty and thirty evidence. Because we all live on the market, and we know what's going on. The control mechanism when he goes to his bench says 'My hit and a Z'. He doesn't say "the receipt fell out of the lady's bag. I'll cut you a fine." If the ‘Z’ is constantly hitting evidence from morning, can anyone seriously in this Chamber say that it will be fined for the one that the consumer has misled or left before the producer can hit the proof? Do you understand that? That's what's happening. That's the reality. Because they're looking at the whole picture. Can I tell you something else, Mr. Minister for Rural Development? The law clearly states that administrative measures are not taken in case of a second infringement in the same year. In case there is a third infringement, as Mr Georgiadis corrected in the same year. So, the four administrative infringements in the two years provided for in the previous law and provided for a licence to be withdrawn are fewer infringements than the three yearly one? Because I know that three a year makes us six in two years. Unless we've learned the practical arithmetic since the beginning. As a result, the licensing framework remains more stable and longer, five years. Administrative fines become milder. And a government is coming here today with this bill to define the regulatory framework for the future issue of permits. I will join your arguments, and I will say that the criteria for the regulatory framework may like them, they may not like them, they may not be right, they may not be right and they may not be right and there may be a debate on what criteria they will get for new authorisations that last years, aside from finding out and never agree. But are you questioning the government's ability, the government's obligation, if you like, to define the future regulatory framework and what will apply from now on, regardless of what has happened so far? So what do you want? Stay on the lairrave for the license and the positions on the people's markets? You don't want to anticipate? A lot of your remarks have been made on many elements, which are included in the molecule. A lot of things have been corrected. You stay on the exception, to the minimum, to the unlikely to create impressions. All these criteria will apply when demand for positions on the people's markets is higher than supply for positions. How, then, is your argument that we are dismantling the people's markets? If we dismantle them how will demand be greater than the available positions? Since we are destroying the producer and seller of the popular market there will be no problem of licensing in the future. We're kicking them out of the populace. Because that was your argument. That we're kicking them out of popular markets. How, then, will there be a problem of permits in the future? I am concerned about the inclusion of data on e-consumer. At some point, however, in a few days' time the Greek citizen will be able to issue his passport from home. It is doing four hundred administrative acts already with digital governance. By December 31st, the Department of Digital Governance has announced that ten more important certificates will be issued. So, you, the people who take the cut on the road and the sidewalk under difficult conditions, don't you have them capable of making such an adjustment? As micro-enterprises, do they not have the right to communicate their presumptionly competitive prices to a wide audience of three hundred thousand people who visit each day the e-consumer? Why wouldn't they have that right? Because I, as a right, see it. I would say to the Ministry of Development's leadership that we should also see the question of the integration of these very small businesses into some financial instruments, such as the NSRF, in order to modernise their benches, their equipment, they should be able to produce and better to expose their products, because we do want young people to get in to testify to and standardize their uncomplicated quality fresh products, which will put them on their bench and are standardized, which will write the producer's name, which will still write in the future and indications of health claims to collect goodwill, to attract another consumer to the people's markets. You tell us, in other words, that we have thousands of people who are trying on the people's markets and leaving them with the weakest part of the consumers. Do not try to modernise these people, offer better services, standard products, local products, which are usually better quality. That is to say, not attract another consumer with greater economic potential. You want them seated and afflicted to appeal to them as a political audience. We want to take real entrepreneurship steps. This is the ideological difference of our resignations. We seek social and economic mobility, giving better and rising opportunities, even to micro-enterprises. I'll close, Mr. President. It has been attempting lately by the Qualified Opposition, the government's effort and is studying to motivate mergers, to be interpreted as an attempt to hunt or eliminate small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This party, to which I have the honour of being a liberal, but at the same time also a popular party. It is a piece voted by the professional, the manabis, the butcher, the farmer, the freelance scientist, the doctor, the lawyer, the engineer and is not identified with great interests, ladies and gentlemen. Because if she were identified with great interests, she would simply not vote for 40% of the Greek people. It is not you who represent the interests of citizens better than the citizens themselves. That is why we will vote for the Development Ministry's bill with the footnote that we need more steps to make our people's markets for households, Europeans, offer fresh products, recognised products, if possible standardised products in small printing houses, so that our producers and sellers receive goodwill, in order to make progress and modernization in this area as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u226	Thank you to the Parliamentary Representative of the New Democracy Mr Christo Bukoro. He's trying to get Mr. Jekalayas in. We see him. We're losing him again. If he connects, we'll give him the floor. Let's start a secondary cycle. There will be a second word for each of the special speakers and rapporteurs of the order of seven minutes. I think it's a good time to fill in. Can Mr. Jekalayas hear us? The signal's gone again. It looks like Castoria has air! Well, let's go to Mr. Booba, I see here. To take the floor as a special speaker of the Greek Solution. You have the floor, Mr. Booba, for seven minutes. Because minutes are a lot, you can use the Step. Mr. Jekalaya, we will intrude him wherever he can connect.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u227	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, unequivocally, not in the bill on popular markets. We have expressed our concerns, our concerns, our arguments in committee and in plenary. It is a bill, which seemingly brings modernism, a digitisation of electronics in popular markets. But it also loses the essence, importance and value of the people's markets. It opens the ferry, the port of Halos, if you like, in order to eliminate the term 'producer'. Because that is the question, this is the quintuosity of the role of the people's market, to protect the producer and to keep the term 'producer' indelibly inexperienced, and not the term 'professional', which will enable large companies in the future to baptize their employees' 'professional sellers' and a profit-driven market that will be opened in the future to enter the people's markets and sell their own assets. So the role of the people's markets is lost, beyond the farmer, small and medium-sized, with the small lot. The Greek Solution from the beginning, in our multipage program, comprehensive and substantial, we say, in the primary sector, to help develop mainly in small flexible cooperatives and farmers. This is being lost and proved through the articles that we have analysed, but also by the concerns, ladies and gentlemen, expressed by those who are experiencing the problem. It is not important, as it should, with a legislative framework which safeguards the small cooperatives, that is, the power in the union, the association. It goes individually to a popular market digitised media and an electronic platform, where this modernization and digitisation in the world of our e-season will change the popular market into an outdoor commercial character, in a shopping mall. These were the fears from the beginning. We do not see the farmer being really protected and a small seller. Because the importance, the goal - you know very well, you have experienced it from children, from your family, from your parents and grandparents and grandparents, who expected when they would come on that day to fill the bags with fruit and vegetables from the folk or buy cheap clothes - the issue is to protect unhurried trade in the issue of folk. We give an example of the fact that the large supermarkets have had a concentration of commercial activities, in the case of manoeuvres, butchers, fishermen and sell other products, which are not related to the first-demand species for a family in the supermarkets. The character has been altered in the big supermarkets, and this is now being moved to the popular markets, in view of an audit. We're not against the controls. There is a need to strike out the illusion. On the other hand, as far as the products sold to the people in the primary sector are concerned, there is in no way a guarantee of their Greek identity, there are no control mechanisms. There is the right - I said it - that, through the GAP Treaty, we should have seamless imports of foreign land. This has caused the small producer to suffer and, above all, the young farmer, who is entering some programmes and is looking for a license in the people to sell his products. There has been no attempt all these years to develop, as we should, organic Greek products on the markets. There are problems with the identification and certification of organic products, which are a lot of costs for them to be identified. We have not given aid to those who say 'young farmers' up to forty years old, because they are designated as young farmers at age. With regard to some changes to seasonal species, this is partly positive. With the craftsmen, where I met with representatives of artists, they cannot be described as purely professional, because they will conserve financially. They have their creations and they want people to sell them on the street, because they cannot afford to pay for the multiple expenses of housing trade. So if we now oblige them to professionals, they will not be able to meet such obligations. Let's go to a moleculosis that the Minister said something with a degree in agriculture. This does not, however, specify any means, ladies and gentlemen. The job is not shameful, but we cannot give a scientist the lure, guarantee, and incentives to go with more molecules to a folk. In relation to what he has said, that if someone loses their molecules or has smaller molecules, it will go to an adjacent people's market, we must say that the small producer and, above all, a farmer and professional, has an interpersonal relationship with the client years in a popular market. He can't change a neighborhood. It can't change character and go to another area, because it's like starting from the beginning. As far as the e-consumer is concerned, we have said that it is a system that will fail in practice. You'll see. The agency will at least fail by sellers who are several years in folk and are of some age. There is no people in the European Union. There is no in Barcelona, there is no Paris, there is no Campania, which is considered the mother of the people's markets in Italy. There are over fifty people's markets in Italy. It shall not apply either to Vancouver or to Toronto, Canada. So here we are starting on an electronic platform, which, however, overturns data on the popular market, how to sell a agricultural product or a product of a craftsmanship. Therefore, we are against this bill, because, ladies and gentlemen, it is not just our opposition role in opposition. We're being disfellowshipped about what we're saying, arguing about it. There are arrows in the patronage and we prove them in terms of the Greek Solution, which we have been concerned about since February, by submitting to the Minister, Mr Georgiadis, this timely question, and from the federations themselves - many of them colleagues from the ideological cruising of the blue party of New Democracy. You say 'the federations agree'. Let me remind you that the federation's first announcement had the title of being a gravel tombstone for the people's markets this bill and it's a cold murder. It is no coincidence that the titles - which are not the Greek Solution - which we invoked at that time are not random. They're the same people who have been involved, experience, work the subject for years. They are family-like businesses that would be impossible for these people to throw them out. And finally, another very important part that history shows is 1931 - I also said in my amendment - that the People's Markets Fund was set up on the Eleftherios Venizelos, Panagiotis Vourloumi, with the Mayor of Athens Stavros Patsi, which was not random. Why did this legal person become public law? In order for producers who are experiencing the problem to have voices themselves, to have an opinion on the whole issue. It cannot be outside this institution and this institution has not been established. With regard to the region's agony, either what Mr Djijkostas or Mr Patulis, who the Minister has tried to justify, is not accidental. The regions, if they want responsibilities, to place, in order for there to be well-being, on the people's markets, but on the other hand they want real competence. However, it is wrong that the two metropolitan centres are separated, Athens - Thessaloniki, with the rest of Greece. People's markets are being created, please, two or even three speeds, and that means that the nature of the people's markets will be altered in the future. As far as the other bills and other amendments are concerned, it is very important that IEK and colleges are involved. A Priory cannot pass through and camouflage within the specific bill of the people's markets, as well as the essential role to be played by the chambers of commerce, which are created by the company's GEMO. They must have another essential role, funding, not just consultative and advisory bodies. To be able to be a real link between the business and the athenocent center model. There is a lot of discussion to see how the Chambers of Commerce and Industry should function in the future. We are voting against the bill, because we want to be close to the small- and medium-sized farmers, to be at the small landowner and the real small seller of non-hazardous trade. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u228	Mr. Jekalaya, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our Government with this regulatory legislation helps to reform the institutional framework for activities in rural trade. This is a reform that really helps the local economy. We facilitate all those who deal with these activities and upgrade them to activities of goodwill. The results of strengthening this entrepreneurship and healthy competitiveness, which they receive are the wider consumer society, stimulate the pulse of our country's economic life, for it is undoubtedly the capital of economic life that is most vital, as the disposal of products from the primary and secondary sectors triggers many of our citizens and is a potential pillar of economic development, but also a further contribution to strengthening social prosperity. The new rural trade legislative framework replaces the existing law of 2017 and constitutes a reform and at the same time abolishes the existing rural trade framework with its ambiguities and misinterpretations of the terms and conditions of the exercise of the outdoor trade by sellers in the organisation and operation of the outdoor markets, as well as the conduct of controls and sanctions. This legislative initiative attempts to differentiate and address the procedures required to ensure the interest of sellers and consumers. It promotes simplification or the elimination of bureaucratic obstacles with a view to supporting economic operators carrying out or wishing to carry out these economic activities. The bill provides for new criteria for the allocation of salesmen's seats on the people's markets. Our Government's intervention with incentives to young, unemployed and vulnerable groups once again demonstrates our social sensitivity. Our initiative contributes to economic activation, but also involves growth and, in particular, sustainable development, and is also equivalent to a dynamic reform that is promising and only beneficial in its implementation. New and graduates with more molecules are expected to claim a place of sale in the bazaars. This is a regulation seeking to stay at the places of residence of young graduates who have both agricultural holdings, but also a premium for homeless and children. More specifically, the conditions and conditions governing the exercise of outdoor commercial activities are laid down and modernises the organisation and operation of rural trade - a people's market, and also provides for arrangements regarding short-term markets, global trade, the markets for the manufacture and sale of ready-to-door food and drink, the well-known street food markets markets, canteens, fairs, etc., innovations. Changes to the moleculosis system, whereby licences are granted to producers and sellers on popular markets. Social and professional molecules are recognised to obtain a licence and a place of activity. In particular, they are molecules with thirty - five molecules that are under the age of thirty, with molecules being reduced and thirty for over forty - one years. It also takes into account for producers and sellers the number of children, thirty for multiples, twenty for threes, ten for those with two children, whether anyone was homeless, while on the criteria it is in the course of study. The holders of a university degree in subjects related to primary production are awarded a 20-mile premium, while the five-mile high school diploma. Therefore, qualifications, children's numbers, luxury, age, family status, possible disability, homelessness, pre-service in the people's market, etc., are taken into account in the system of mobilising the promoted regulation and in the licenses of professional sellers, sellers on the markets, craftsmen, artists, etc. The establishment of the so-called model people's markets is being introduced. The designation of a popular market as a model requires, to a minimum, uniformity on the bench, fixed infrastructure, sewerage and electricity, recycling bins and recreational spaces. It introduces the institution of the countryside, as I said before, the markets for the manufacture and sale of ready-to-eat food. Sellers may be either natural or legal persons. The management of rural trade by the competent authorities, municipalities and regions of the country and their own citizens shall be carried out through the integrated information system. The process of granting sellers' licences will be conducted exclusively through the integrated information system, in an effort to improve organisation and, in particular, greater transparency. The authorisation and the allocation of the post shall be granted following a tendering procedure, on the basis of the highest economic offer. Such management, through an electronic platform, will also take the relevant actions by supplementing and transferring authorisations, by registering open markets, and by setting controls and imposing fines. In the integrated open market information system, all information on popular markets and all outdoor organised markets will be recorded. A public profile of the position holders is thus established, necessary for the proper and effective management of the object of rural trade by the municipalities and regions of the country. In order for the consumer to have knowledge and picture of product prices and their formation by the end of the day, the introduction of the starting prices for basic goods on the ‘e-consumer’ platform is also envisaged. Thus, each seller is obliged to import, until 8.00 p.m., into the platform, the starting price of products on the popular market and the quantity available. The systematic recording and organisation of the object of rural trade in conjunction with the electronically managed management of its actions reveals benefits only. Through the use of the information system, the simplification and abbreviation of the procedures shall be achieved, transparency shall be strengthened by the operators of the operation and the operators concerned, ensuring the efficient management of the rural trade in each sector. Citizens' incomes are being strengthened. The provision of products and services to consumers is upgraded. The functionality of the bill is ensured by clarifying the duration of the producer-seller licences in five years so that there is no concern that they will be doing the same procedure every year. The vacancies in the people's markets will be made available twice a year and not as they have been. The percentage of the quantity to be allocated by a producer to popular markets will be calculated on the basis of the statement to the IACC. It is about the quantity that he intends to sell to the people and which he himself will say. It is therefore necessary to strengthen the fiscal consciousness. Easter markets will last thirty days and not only fifteen days. In short-term markets, natural and legal persons for industrial items up to six days a week will be able to operate from four anticipated. The Outdoor Trade Act will start from 1 February 2022 to have time for all the intermediaries to have the time to prepare appropriately to operate the bill properly. The moleculosis established relates to the case that in some people the available positions are less than the applications. Therefore, the one who will lose the molecules will not be left out of the people's markets. He will not be able to go to the particular people's market. But he can go to a side folk. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] At the end of the day, I would like to say that the competent authority grants licences to the relevant active positions, to the active trade of professionals and sellers to unemployed people first with a disability rate of 50% and at least 50%, or to parents and guardians of minors with at least 50% disability. The positions held by the beneficiaries may be taken by draw. The competent authority shall, when defining the positions, ensure that they are secured. Criteria for granting are, therefore, unemployment and disability due to the person for whom either the person concerned is employed or the indirect right to protection from invalidity. And finally, this bill attempts to simplify licensing to various economic activities, such as colleges, private institutes of Vocational Training, lifelong learning centres, schools and centres of foreign languages, as well as to recreational activities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u230	We will continue with the rapporteurs. First, however, Mr Haritsis has asked for the floor to make a small speech. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u231	Mr President, I have asked for intervention as a parliamentary representative. I'd like my dentistry time. I'll be very brief, though. I cannot, Mr President, because we have been living very critical days, not to raise the questions I raised yesterday and I am talking about the issues of pandemic. We are facing a national crisis. Yesterday we had five and a half thousand cases and even a Monday when we know that the cases are reduced. I am afraid - and this is the information we have - that the cases will be even higher today. So where is the government's emergency plan? Where is an attempt to create a climate of consensus within society so that we can face this unprecedented crisis? Unfortunately, the government insists on the logic of division and polarization, on the logic of social automation. I saw just now the statement by the Minister of Health, which said it was much greater the transmission of the coronary to the focus than to the churches. If that's possible! A number of specific social groups are being targeted again. The government must change the question, Mr President, because I fear that the national crisis is turning into a national disaster with the sole responsibility of the Mitsotakis Government. And, of course, it is very crucial that the conditions should finally be established so that we can convince our fellow citizens and those who have not been vaccinated to proceed with vaccination. But how can this be done when we have a government, which unfortunately has lost all credibility over society? Secondly, a very serious crisis, Mr President, raises the question of accuracy. See also the data, which are only published today, which speak of losses of up to EUR 166 per month for households to meet their basic needs. They are published today by the 'ECONOMIC TERRITORY'. I'm presenting it here for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Alexis Haritsis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The situation is unnecessarily different and it concerns households, small and medium-sized enterprises, the energy-intensive industry, the whole of the Greek economy. Today the President of SYRIZA and Chief of Officerial Response, Alexis Tsipras took the initiative to submit a request for a preliminary to the House for a debate on this very matter of accuracy. It's very critical, very important. It cannot be blinded by the government anymore to this very important problem, which is now facing the whole of Greek society and which undermines all the development prospects for the Greek economy. We hope that this debate will take place as soon as possible and, above all, that the government will now stop believing in these beliefs of self-regulation of the markets and take the necessary steps to deal with this very difficult situation. In relation to the bill, Mr President, I do not want to add anything other than what we have already said. I think we and the other anti-population forces have shown that we are talking here about a bill which turns producers' rights into a privilege for a few and abundance in accessing people's markets, makes it difficult for consumers to have access to cheap and quality products and even in conditions of unprecedented economic crisis and a wave of dishonesty. I would just like to say one last word about the amendments. I'm not actually going into the contents. What I am interested in at the moment is that we have another case here, unfortunately we are not surprised by the government in this case, where amendments are tabled which have not been made to any debate, no consultation has been held with the opposition parties. Services are being set up, redistributed powers are being allocated to the Ministry of Development and even topics which, because I want to be fair, we could see them in a positive way, but they should be discussed. It should have preceded serious consultation with both opposition and stakeholders, as well as with the amendment on the internal control of private companies where there are indeed issues that need to be regulated. But why is this so hasty without any previous debate? This really is incomprehensible, it is only unfortunately explained by the way in which this government systematically legislates. We have seen it recently and on very serious issues, such as the Recovery Fund, which the government has also attempted to sneak through Parliament. I think it is a process which insults the parliamentary procedures and does not facilitate the work of all the political parties, but above all the ability of the Greek society to monitor the way this House is legislating. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u232	We are now continuing with the special speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Synchronakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. The government obviously continues its anti-grass work in the midst of a pandemic. After dozens of anti-grass interventions at the target, it is now the operation of the people's markets and of rural trade. The legislative changes presented by the Minister are, in principle, the denial of what he has said so far that he has exhausted all the margins, that he has heard the federations and that he supports the people's markets. These legislative changes, although changing some provisions in a softer direction, do not, however, change their basic direction, which is obviously the transformation of people's markets into commercial ones. As a result, it does not change the JRC's position of voting at first and, as is our position on the articles and we will be voting shortly. The main thing is that it strengthens this bill and exacerbates competition, whose marble will first of all be called upon to pay professional producers and traders who are currently active in the public markets, and that will lead them to a generalised insecurity, to unemployment. It remains the stricter scope of the operating framework precisely to serve this objective, namely to discourage thousands of producers and professionals from leaving the public markets, such as obstacles to obtaining and renewing the licence, exterior penalties, the large daily fee by municipalities and regions, the strengthening of private economic criteria in the operation of the public markets and, in fact, the reduction of state funding and the allocation of public procurement powers to contractors, the change of criteria of activity by excluding vulnerable social groups, the non-insurance of Sunday holidays, the conversion of production licences to professionals, i.e. purely commercial ones. So, together, they are working together in this direction, namely to reduce it, to discourage thousands of professionals and producers by abandoning their profession. Will only the producers and the small traders pay for it? Of course not. The people's family will pay for it itself, the consumer from the people's family will pay for it. It is not only about the bill, therefore, of traders and producers, but also about prices for people's consumption. The aim is to eliminate the direct access of popular layers to food products at affordable prices without mediation of intermediate, wholesale traders so that, slowly, direct access will disappear. Access for workers and pensioners to essential foodstuffs and other goods at affordable prices, as has been done so far, will be reduced in the first instance and will in a future disappear. Who will benefit from this story? Apparently the big traders in the food sector. We are therefore calling on the professionals of the people's markets, the producers, all workers in vigilance. No one should fool these government manoeuvres. Organized struggle and collective struggle are a one-way road to avoid crossing the dissolution of popular markets. In relation to the amendments, we tabled an amendment on the permanentisation of five-year, fire-fighting. You said no talk, neither the government nor the opposition nor the issue is whether the opposition will say. The question is how it is fermented throughout the whole debate. So you've dealt with her completely deviously. You didn't even bother to take a seat. And it is good that you say to firefighters, to these heroic people, but for their work, wages and pensions you say nothing at all. We, as a JRC, have expressed our fundamental disagreement on the perpetuation of this unacceptable situation for years, with different industrial relations and the continuing shrinking of the Fire Corps. The results were seen from this year's period with the catastrophic fires in Evia, Attica, Elia and elsewhere. As far as the ministerial amendments are concerned, we are voting against them all. And here we have the known trick, the known trap that all governments make every time, not only today, but also the previous, zero. The same amendment incorporates articles on which we could vote differently. However, you are forcing Members to vote on the single amendments. For example, in Amendment No 1111 there are four articles. We would like to vote on'residences', for example, in Article 3, in relation to IORP administrative staff contracts for training periods 2021-2022. The JRC's position is of course known for the permanentisation of this staff, with the conversion into contracts of indefinite duration. You have put this provision, for example, in the same amendment as Article 1, which amends it, which abolishes the mere proportionalness to the electoral process of police officers. Of course, you withdrew it, but it is also Article 2 on the establishment of a linking position of the Ministry of National Defence to the Permanent Representation of Greece to the European Union on issues of development, capacity and programmes within the framework of the European Union's permanently established cooperation. In our view, it is a dangerous provision that does not serve Greece's sovereign rights. The same applies to Amendment No 1113. We could vote'residences' and even positively, for example, in housing the services of the General Secretariat of Research and Innovation. However, the regulation on sectoral and regional development programmes is a burden. Although it is the Greek people's money, these are not eligible for their own needs. That is to say, the people themselves are giving them, but they are not entitled to make use of them on the basis of their needs, but on the basis of the needs of strengthening the profitability and competitiveness of capital. With regard to Amendment No 1115, which relates to the Tier 2 grant for the resolution of their operations, this amendment is photographic, however much the Minister wants to say that it is not photographic, but it helps companies at the level of the regions. It actually photographs companies to take a role on behalf of business groups in the renewable energy sector, after redeeming these specific companies. This amendment, at the same time, is an incentive to the regions to become more active in the field of energy liberalisation, with the establishment of companies with 70% share capital, which, of course, can come down to 50%, 30% or zero tomorrow. One could say that the subsidy should be given directly, for example, by the government to businesses and not through the regions. Of course we, as a JRC, would still be in the same position. The reality is that you are interested in getting the regions into and diffusing them, closer to the people, both the responsibility for attracting private capital and the perception of the participation of local and regional authorities in the energy plans of the liberated monopolies and green development for saving the world's empires. And of course, then, the energy communities follow. Therefore, we cannot vote for the amendments. We are voting against them, and we are also voting against the bill at first, and we shall vote on the articles shortly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u234	The Minister of National Defence has the floor for two minutes to support the amendment of the Ministry of National Defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. I have come to support very briefly an amendment from the Ministry of National Defence. It is the one with a general number of 1111 and a special 87 in the draft law of this bill. This is about a provision on the establishment of a position in the Permanent Representation of Greece in the European Union - the Permanent Representation/EU. In other words, the development of potential and programmes within the framework of the permanent structured cooperation between the European Union and the PESCO. Why do we move on to this position? Because, as you know, PESCO aims to strengthen the European Union's security capacity and enables Member States involved to develop joint defence capabilities and their operational readiness, that is to say, it is an organisation that develops programmes with joint participation of countries - members of the European Union in the area of defence and security. It is of particular strategic importance. Greece has a strong participation in joint development with other countries - members of the European Union of such programmes. For example, in 2020 Greece participated in five proposals for such projects, under the auspices of PESCO, as the country's leader in the area of defence and security, which were also accepted for PESCO co-financing. In 2021, so far, we have two more approved. Therefore, as you can understand, the country rightly wants to strengthen its position in the European Union's permanent delegation to promote through this special representative, of course, from the defence area, from the Armed Forces, such programmes as the European Defence Agency and PESCO. Therefore, as you can see, the above-mentioned position is beneficial. In any case, it is also necessary for our country. The person to be placed by decision of the HRC will be identified in the course. It is called upon to have such experience. It will obviously be a member who has served in the Armed Forces, and with special experience in the contracts on armaments and defence, proven and thus constitutes the link between the Ministry of National Defence on the crucial issues of capacity development and programmes in the context of this cooperation. This makes it more effective to represent the Ministry of National Defence in the European Union. It will be able to run and support Greek proposals and companies from the domestic defence industry for PESCO co-financing, resulting in an increase in the country's defence capabilities. We have been studying this position for a long time. There were procedural issues. However, since we consider that by the end of the year the person who has already taken over must have moved to Brussels and already made the first round of contacts with the relevant European defence agencies, we are speeding up this amendment and I ask, in accordance with the above considerations, that this House approves it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u236	We are now moving on with Mr. Apostolos Pana from the Change Movement. Mr. Pana, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u237	Minister, ladies and gentlemen, you are already aware that our parliamentary group has also tabled a request for a roll-call vote on the principle of the Ministry of Development and Investment bill from yesterday, with the aim of highlighting the fundamental risks we identified in this bill. You also know our position at the first moment that this bill has come to our hands and that is clear. We therefore stand against the dissolution of an institution with a history of ninety-three years, an institution which, not only according to our own words, but also proven by a study by the Institute of Consumers, serves the least privileged, consumers who find unmediated cheap and fresh quality products. We stand against the effort, as you say, to urge small producers to become professionals. Minister, you referred yesterday to the Athens People's Markets and admitted yourself from the Stepma of the House that the North Helladic institutions that were at the hearing were the ones who had reacted. You know, Minister, the diversity in our country very well, as well as the local peculiarities and differences that are presented at every level. So you find it unfair to legislate with the same measures and weights for the people's markets in Athens and Halkidiki, for example? You also referred yesterday to the amendments you tabled. Five out of 22 October and one at 29. Changes to the conditions for construction in business parks, as well as to the extension of the possibility of ‘SGEIs’ to conclude project lease contracts. Ladies and gentlemen, no matter how hard we try not to see a photographic provision in this amendment, 1110. With regard to the next amendment, 1111, I should like to say something positive about the withdrawal of the first article. But we have waited for more cooperation on your part. The amendments as a whole change very little of what we have pointed out. The conversion of production licences into professional and purely commercial and with the main aim of declining them leads to thousands of professionals and producers being discouraged from leaving the profession. We are standing there, in the protection of producers and, by extension, in the protection of the small and medium-sized consumers, in the protection of people who are fighting for survival and for the cut-off. In conclusion, I should also like to mention that we were expecting the amendments to lead to a final more supportive draft bill for the citizens we support. We have waited for amendments which, even at the moment, would correct as much as possible the existing failures and improve the status of the bill. However, this did not happen. We do not find any substantial changes in the nature of the bill and we continue to see provisions that, not only do not solve basic problems, but create more. Ladies and gentlemen, we must not create any more difficulties for our citizens at that time. I hope that this will also be the case, and I hope it will not be worse, of the economic situation next year. Therefore, Minister, both the entry into force of this legislation and yesterday's reference to this law is considered inappropriate. Unless there's such a snug evidence that there's financially otherwise. To sum up, I should like to reiterate the fact that people in the people of the people's markets are against the large majority of the provisions and that should have been taken very seriously into account. In other words, we should not be in this very difficult economic situation and in the middle of a pandemic, as we talk about more than five thousand cases, creating further problems in the already responsible middle-class economics that is being perpetrated from everywhere. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, too. We will continue with Mr Arachovitis and the meeting will be closed with Mr Simopoulos. Mr Arachovite, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u239	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today, when we are discussing - and the debate is over - this bill shows that it is indeed the wrong bill at the wrong time. Just a moment ago it was announced that the cases reached six thousand seven hundred and fifty-nine new ones. So what we've been saying from the outset, that the tension it caused, the division and all that upsetting that this bill brought was at the wrong time and offered nothing at all. However, since the detailed and long debate that has taken place, we can draw the following conclusions. Conclusion one. A recent law, Law 4497/2017, without sufficient justification, has been abolished, a law that had the consent of the majority of the Parliamentary Delegation and even the Representation and without anyone entering reasoning fundamentally towards colleagues or to himself and saying what went wrong with the previous law and led to the necessity of abolishing this law. In fact, ELPE says that we should go back to the provisions of this law, a law which the confederation of producers says that improvements should have been made to it and not abolished from the bottom and the bottom. Conclusion two. Either way, the government and collapsing were tragically alone. We have seen it from the letters sent by the bodies which have not spoken up to now. We have a new letter from the Region of Crete separately, which I will also present in the Minutes. One can see the statements of all the participants in the consultation at the hearing, where one will see that those who were not vertically opposed had their reservations that were never withdrawn, never been beaten. And this is seen by the letters that continue to come so far. Conclusion third. We have issues of democracy in this country and that government. When you say that dialogue is taking place - and there has been a great dialogue - it is obviously a dialogue between deaf people, a dialogue between unheard of. When you say you're talking, who are you talking to? When these people until the last hour make announcements - today's announcement - that they are across the street, that they do not agree with the changes you have brought, who do you discuss and what do you say? There is, therefore, a question of democracy, as there is also a question of transparency. And we'll put that down. A request for transparency both in the provisions you bring and in the substance of the dialogue that is taking place. Why using a pragmatic dialogue just to say that 'I have the democratic legitimacy of accepting people, but I do not listen to them. It does not matter, however, that I accept them' is a question of democracy after all. Conclusion fourth. You did bring improvements, indeed, to a number of legal regulations, eighty-five, but, obviously, as all the Members who have spoken to you so far have not changed the core and substance of the legislation. They don't change philosophy. They do not change the dismantling of an institution of ninety-three years of age by changing its direction, changing the course, deterring producers' participation to the benefit of non-producers at the wrong time. At the time when you should legislate to tighten consumer-producer relations to the mutual benefit of both, you legislate the opposite. Apart from the fact that you are not actually entering, you are correcting mistakes that we have made to you from the very beginning. The bill has read it a word. You can't present the white for black. I will not say, as colleagues have said, that you have not read the bill, but in any case you are only confined to the surface of things and you do not actually get into it. We'll explain why. Also, the eighty - five legal interventions show the sloppiness with which the bill has been worked. In fact, in Amendment No 1113, almost everything changes. It shall be done ‘skin’. So is Article 71. This is also done by means of the amendments. But let us see two things on the substance of the matter, because time is pushing. So, instead of applying the framework of Law 4497, strengthen the position of producers, step up controls, find out the offenders and get them out of the way, you come here and cynically tell us that you did not control the seeming producers, you did not extinguish the people, but you are now trying to legitimise the illegality. These people, for whom we have been telling you since the first time that you have been photographically legislated, a colleague from the Coalition called them 'false producers'. Here this is the step taken by the colleague of the Co-Population who described them as 'false producers'. So what are you doing? Keep the privileges of the fictitious producers - I will not use the same expression as my colleague, I will tell them of the fictitious producers - and you are licensed a professional. Now you understand why they're all across the street. Real producers are across the street because you rinse off the fictitious producers. Professionals are again across the street because you legalize unfair competition since they maintain the privileges they have had as fictitious producers. The worst thing you can do with the state-of-the-art. What are you doing? You're only photographing it for Attica. You don't change 50-50, the balance of fifty producers - fifty professionals. Keep the basic core. And that's what we're telling you. What's the main core? It's all you've turned the license into a position. If the producer or professional doesn't have a seat, he's got nothing. And that's the basic thing. This is the big difference we had with Law 4497, which naturally provided for fines. Every law to apply provides for sanctions. The difference is that after you have connected the license to a position, depriving him of his permission for any misconduct, you actually take him out of procedure - remove his post, so he has nothing in his hands - until the next notice is made. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Here, then, you are destroying the principle of proportionality that does not exist in housing trade. Therefore, other measures and weights for outdoor trade, others for housing. And here is a point that will be insulted very soon by the law. Keep sanctions in UCLAF, e-consumer. He said so again a colleague from the Communism, and he acknowledged that SYRIZA is not an e-consumer. Every innovation is good. Our disagreement, we have told you from the outset, has been in sanctions. The sanctions have not changed, Mr. Colleague. We talked about it. Neither Article 56 nor Article 62, paragraph 4 and 5, has changed. For a 0.96% infractional amount, he loses his place. There is another question here, however, about legal certainty. The amendments that we have been telling you from the outset are not a quantitative issue. It's a matter of quality. When even the species that will be sold to the people are determined by a decision by the current or tomorrow's minister and change, this affects the heart of legal certainty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u240	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u241	I shall conclude, Mr President. I really wonder with colleagues who celebrate you taking the first unacceptable law, the first draft law, with which the market benches had risen. The fact that there are constant drawbacks and we end up with a bill that you will vote on to a little bit on your own as a parliamentary majority and that this version of it is less destructive than the original one, you consider it a great victory. But it shows, and where you want to go, what your course is. The philosophy, the torso doesn't change. In practice, of course, this bill will never be implemented. It has many points on which we too will be affected, the next progressive government that will not be long enough to come, this law will abolish it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u242	We're finishing up with Mr. Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u243	Thank you, Mr President. I remind you I have four minutes' liquor store from my prototype. I spoke eleven minutes instead of fifteen. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I will start with what I said and my staff intervention a little while ago. In psychiatry there is the concept of 'false environment'. What's a false environment? It's a situation that creates the subject, a person, ignoring the real environment. He has no picture of what happens next to him, but through his own performances that are often emotionally charged, he creates a different picture of what is happening. That's what happens with you guys, but I don't speak psychiatry. You created a pseudo-law, a bill, and you sit down and argue against a bill that exists only in your mind and has nothing to do with reality. I hear SYRIZA's dear rapporteur, and I really am glad that he really knows the bill, he has arguments. I disagree with the arguments. But most of you didn't know what they were saying, they hadn't read the bill. Many of you didn't understand his details. They were entrepreneurizing other issues. Many of you were in the bill six months ago. We're somewhere else. That was last year. You didn't even read the legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u244	Please, ladies and gentlemen. Just a minute to get in touch. He's talking to the rapporteur. I would like to say a few words about the Commission's proposals, and I would like to say a few words about them. Easy to finish the process. We were towards the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u245	I now come to who's backing the bill. You know there, too, you translate your supports or don't support them depending on how it suits you. You know, there are federations all over Greece. Our speaker, for example, said that they were not abducted and agreed with the bill by the Federation of Thessaly. There is the Association of Producers of Thessaly, Macedonia and Thrace which, through Mr Makridis of the President, has helped to have this bill and these legislative improvements have come. There's the Federation of Attica Professionals. It's a very big federation. There is the Federation of producers of Attica. I have discussed with colleagues from all over Greece who discuss with producers. Where did you see that all producers or professionals are against the bill? That's not true. In Athens, for example, head of the federation that reacted - I wish people from the productive classes participated in the parliamentary elections - who were also a candidate. I don't know when he reacts who's cloaking. He has the cloak of the candidate with the SYRIZA or the trade unionist. Without, of course, implying that he should not be a candidate for a man from productive classes. Also, some attendants in Thessaloniki react to a bill from which is completely different from what you have in mind. I now come to a third matter. Thank the Thessaloniki MPs of SYRIZA. They're my sponsors. Thank you for having such an opposition to my face will indeed improve my position in Thessaloniki. My main sponsor, however, is Mr. Famelos. There's nothing personal. Mr. Famellos, whom I have to invite to eat to give him a gift, tabled yesterday a form I gave to the Thessaloniki People's Markets six months ago. But it is precisely this form that proves how a Member of Parliament - because I would not personally speak at all at this level - can help to form a bill at the end. I was telling that form what the bill doesn't do. I said that it does not privatise popular markets and, of course, it does not enter private markets. Ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA are not coming in! I was thinking where I was disagreeing. I disagreed, firstly, with the possibility of producers becoming professionals. The original bill included it for all Greece and now only for Attica under twenty acres, and only for those who have their crops in Attica and not those who are active in Attica's people. Secondly, the original bill I had disagreed with was talking about the need for producers to bring 50% of their production under IACS. This was done on the basis of their statement. So that's changed. Thirdly and above all, I said that there is a problem with the e-consumer system. But the Minister himself said that the e-consumer system will be implemented, since there is training of the directly concerned. Three out of three, then! Of course, I wasn't alone in this. It was the entire New Democracy Parliamentary Group. Of course, we also had a minister and his colleagues who listened! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like some more time, Mr President. It is extremely important - the Minister who had open ears - that bills can be changed through the parliamentary group, through Parliament and have a different form, taking into account even the proposals of counter-population, because Mr Arachovitis has also taken part in some of the changes. Finally, the core of the bill refers to the contract notice. That's the core. That doesn't change. Through the contract is what the legislator seeks. The notice, in a transparent manner, since these positions come to the 'DENMARK', allows all producers, after a period of time, to have a position, without any problem for all producers who are now licensed and will take a position before this procedure. This is the core of the bill. Finally, when I refer to private-law legal persons, I say that it is a matter that can be dealt with by 1 February. But the regions must do all they can to incorporate the new system. To say that the new system is not easy to implement or is inapplicable gives no solution. The regions must also make every effort to implement a system which is diverse. Finally, I would like to thank my colleagues in the parliamentary group for having all succeeded, with the Minister of State and with open ears, to bring in a bill which, in fact, through the cooperation of both the producers and the professionals and the regions, will change the data on the people's markets and, above all, will stop producers from being hostages of an opaque system. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u246	As a result of a delay Mr. Kriton Arsenis has the floor, and the Minister will then speak. Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u247	Thank you, Mr President. We hear lately that everyone wants this bill in people. In fact, a walk to the people's, ladies and gentlemen's Members will convince you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u248	I went there the other day, and I was judged!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u249	You've been punished! In fact, from people who are involved...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u250	Calm down! Before you did it, and now the New Democracy does it. What can we do? They follow you sometimes. Please calm down and listen to Mr Arsenis and finish the procedure after the Minister speaks. Please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u251	I told you to go to the folk to see really what's going on. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill that drives the small producer away at the same time as the New Democracy and this government give everything to the big. You said a week ago that there would be no environmental controls, that large companies would pay their turnover. At the same time you are refreshing and very strict in the small ones, the small producer. With the slightest misconduct you exclude him from the populace, and you're putting huge fines on him. You want to throw him out at the same time that you have given with Article 67 all the powers to the Minister to do what he wants. The bill that he so critically criticised - and said, "But it wasn't mine. A committee has taken it off" - it can be implemented through Article 67 at any time. And I'm gonna close up with the amendment on the elections to the police. You withdrew it. But why did you bring this amendment? You brought her because, obviously, your government has set a target, to be able to use the police to suppress, to work on police violence, and that's why it patronizes the ears of certain police officers, those police officers who control the police. He wants to be able to mock the ears of certain trade union forces, at the same time as the police use violence unnecessarily, without ever having been provoked. You choose the political leadership of the Ministry of Civil Protection which has the right to take place and which is not, under political criteria. With the same police - and I shall end, Mr President - we had three feminine murders. All three women, i.e. the 40 - year - old and four - year - old in Ierapetra, the forty - seven - year - old in Rethymnon and the thirty - nine - year - old in Daphne had gone to the police and had made complaints. In other cases they had gone with relatives. Complaints have never been recorded. The police never acted. Instead of building these in the police, you went to abolish the simple analogue. Stop petting ears. It's an insult to all the cops who keep the letter of the law. You're sweating the ears of the illegal ones. Stop it! You put us on very dangerous paths.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u252	Here, Minister, you have the floor. Mr. Voridis, you're working on the Minister and he can't come to Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u253	Mr President, he explained to me his disagreement on the legal persons who have dealt with the meeting so much here. Thank you very much, Mr President, and thank you very much to all the colleagues who have spoken of this bill, which has finally caused a lively parliamentary debate both in committees and in plenary and I believe the good-faithful observers have reached their conclusions. I would like to say once again that it is a pity for the parliamentary dialogue to be exhausted in fantasy rather than in essence. You are losing your effort to criticise the Mitsotakis Government, what is happening in front of your eyes. I am saying an example of today's news. Today the country and the Greek economy have achieved another unprecedented international success. The capital increase achieved by the Public Power Corporation, PPC, was overwritten over all expectations in a few minutes, while it was planned to last four days. And the funds in the 1.35 billion that PPC raised today in order to be able to make investments necessary for its existence in the future, are multiples only today's that are now a small fraction of the total value from the value of the company as a whole that you delivered to us. I would remind you that PPC's capitalisation delivered by SYRIZA Government to the Mitsotakis Government was all of three hundred million and today for a fraction of about 17% if you count it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u254	Three hundred million capitalisation?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u255	Three hundred million capitalisation had the day we took it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] You have reached the share in one euro and now, from one euro, the share has increased to nine euros. Can you understand what this means to the real world, that real people with real money have put nine times the value you delivered us? Instead of sitting here thinking about what it was that was so useless for you to take the public electricity company to one euro and take it two years back to nine, and what do you say in this House? To say something about the topicality - anyway the meeting is closed - and I'll tell you right after the bill. We wake up in the morning and it's flooded on the internet - I don't know if you saw it, ladies and gentlemen, it's a little fun - a video by Mr. Papa with Mr. Giannoulis who have gone to a "TRAINOSE" train wagon and have filmed with their mobile phone a mushroom that has planted on the train. And they say that if possible the trains of the government of Mitsotakis and Karamanlis are so unusable that they have planted up to mushrooms. It comes out after two hours and tells them that this wagon has not been used for a long time, you have gone to a wagon in the warehouses, come with the regular wagons running. But do you really think with such opposition you'll ever get power back? It's opposition to the fairs! You're coming to the House for the People's Markets Bill. Very good. This debate on the people's markets started with a number of troubles and supposedly great reactions. I told you five times - a SYRIZA MEP did not comment on it, he did not have any argument - that since children are so bad that this bill is so bad and he destroys the people's markets, squeezes the people's markets, disappears the popular markets, sells them out to the large - I say various comic arguments that I have heard - when they proclaimed a three-time strike on the popular markets, why did not one of the people's markets shut down, nor one of them? The answer from a colleague was that they have raised black flags. When you said that, I was laughing. Do you know why? Because the day before yesterday in my office they were showing pictures of the Federation of Laika Markets Producers, Mr. Moschos is also a candidate for a SYRIZA MEP to remind me that in 2017 you voted your law was outside the House with black flags. Good, and because they had black flags in 2017, the people on the outside say it was a bad bill you voted on at the time? Is that the argument in Parliament? I'm telling you three times a strike was called and twice a gathering. The first time that the gathering of popular purchasers was announced and there the former Phillipakis friend in "Democracy" wrote in the "Democracy" that there would be a palal gathering against the bill of Georgiadis, it was summer, it was very hot, and they gathered some fortys, I went down, I bought them and orangeade would not get sunshine. The second time I went down and talked to them myself. It was about a hundred centimeters. That was the palal gathering against the bill. And now we are going to do it on the basis of the substance. What were the main objections raised by this bill to some? I always accept the good-faithful understanding between people. Let's go look at them in turn and understand what we've done, ladies and gentlemen. And I would particularly like to thank all my fellow Members of the New Democracy. The debate that took place in this bill with pride I can say that in my opinion it is a parliamentary model. Because a Minister brought in a law proposal. This proposal for a law entered into the thorough parliamentary debate and the Minister received dozens of Members' comments so that we could put together a bill on the people's markets that is now completely shared. Today there is not a single federation that speaks against the bill. What did you bring in an argument? You said as last argument that the two regions, the Region of Central Macedonia and the Region of Attica sent me a letter that the bill is inappropriate. That was your last argument. Yes, sir. Why are the two regions saying that it is inappropriate? Are they talking about the bill in general? Oh, no. They say it's inappropriate because we didn't agree to be able to establish separate legal persons. Question: Was it possible in the SYRIZA bill to establish separate legal persons? No, it's the answer. If you SYRIZA assess this objection as so important - if you assume that you are telling the truth and are convinced that the bill is bad, why is what the Patoulis and Djijikostas are saying true, that it cannot function without a development company - you why did you not predict that they could establish development companies and judge in 2017 that they do not need development companies? I'm saying this to understand that with such arguments you can't go away. So let's go. What did we do? Basic changes from basic objections originally existing in the bill. First objection by producers that there was a difference in the time range of the authorisation between traders and producers. Five years were traders and one producer, and this created a distinction between them. We did it five years for both of us. Discrimination's dropping. Second fear of producers that it could have been possible with 70% in the IACC that we had put in the original version of the bill too many producers could not manage to catch this goal not by their own fault but because there might have been weather phenomena, there might have been a number of uncertain factors that would have led them to lose their ability to be in people's markets without being blamed. And we were opposed to putting 50% of their own statement on what they themselves estimate they will sell on the people's markets. We did it as they wanted. That goes too. What else bothered them? That the original fines were very strict. We did so a lot more modestly in the encouragement of colleagues in the New Democracy. The fines we have today - I say this about the criticism that has been heard by the Opposition that they are disastrous - are weaker than the current law. Penalties and fines are lower than SYRIZA law. SYRIZA comes in and accuses us of having a dragon law with high fines and its own are higher! Get out of the way. What else was he worried about? They were concerned that, when permits were issued once a year, there would be a possibility that there would be empty positions and that many popular markets could not have. We did the call twice a year. And if we see it's not enough, we'll increase it. But we're going to fly to see how it works. What other objection was raised? That if the law is good, but it's hard from one day to the next to adapt the operators to the functions so quickly to build the platforms and proclaim the positions. We moved the date of implementation of the bill on 1 February so that the bodies can regulate their platforms and have no concern. There goes this objection to them, too. And a number of other arrangements - not to repeat all the debate we have had - which shows that out of all the real objections raised to this bill during our parliamentary debate or in the previous public consultation and which really caused some producers of concern - because on the part of the traders there was absolutely consensus and absolute support for the bill - that they would have a problem, we have healed them. Even in the major demand made by all the articles of the bill, that is, our intention to potentially give some of the producers the opportunity to declare traders if they wanted to change their licence, and this was shaped in the way we saw in our parliamentary debate in the Attica region and only up to twenty acres to catch the small lots where we have the real problem in relation to the way they operate on the people's markets. And this article caused so much trouble. This has also been adapted during our parliamentary debate. And finally we reach a bill that today is the only last loose end and the only issue those who are reacting are that we do not allow the establishment of the two legal persons in the Region of Attica and Thessaloniki. And I told you the Ministry of Interior has a good argument about that. We will see how the bill works, and if what they say is true, that is, if the people's markets can't work on it, we are here to fix it. We think it will work. Do not forget the question of e-consumer, which raised the big question of whether or not grandmas, people in the province, etc. apply this measure. We have said that we will provide in the ministerial decision the terms and conditions where we will allow those people who are unable to adapt directly and we will give them more time, and we will make the necessary exceptions so that some people who have an objective problem do not find themselves in a difficult position. No one wants to harm nor anyone wants to be embarrassed. We want to build people's markets, but they will operate in conditions of the 21st century and they will be able to make use of ESDP money, they will be able to use high technology, they will be able to operate legally and they will be able to operate in order. That's what this bill does. I believe, ladies and gentlemen, that this bill really is in this direction. Finally, and now, at the end, the rapporteur, Mr Arsenis, said the same thing, that by Article 67 you are giving the Minister overpower, and that is the article, as Mr Arsenis said yesterday, 'the draft elephant Adoni Georgiadis'. I return: Article 67 indeed regulates and gives the legal authority of the Minister for Development and his fellow minister to regulate matters of regulation by ministerial decision-making. Why is that? Is it my invention to get a superpower because I dream of having superpower in popular markets? Oh, no. Because in accordance with the rules of good law, proposed by the committee that we have set up in this House, the regulatory acts must be regulated by ministerial decisions and not by law, for that reason. And that is now a typical example of legislating on all the bills that come to Parliament because the regulatory acts, I repeat, go through ministerial decisions and not by law. You also found here a great supposed conspiracy. And the culmination, which I sincerely consider to be outrageous, has been, Mr Haritsis, regrettably, in your parliamentary group, who have spoken out against the articles on simplifying the issues of education in the bill on private schools and free study centres, etc. I explained to them - I hoped you had done so, but you did not - that these articles have entered into this bill only to fulfil the SYRIZA Memorandum and the SYRIZA Law of 2016. I would remind Members who may not have followed the debate that, when SYRIZA was a government in 2016, SYRIZA voted for a general simplification law and the memorandum signed and the enhanced surveillance mechanism that signed it set some time limits that the next governments should regulate the faster licensing of various economic activities. Under this law, SYRIZA and the SYRIZA Memorandum we have voted - and I say "we" not only of the New Democracy, but also SYRIZA in the House, here - two of my simplification bills that, because they came to implementation of the SYRIZA Memorandum and are the agreement with the institutions, as the troika in the post-SYRIZA era is called, voted for as well. In the second bill education was not included. I told you at the time that it was all the provision of your memorandum outside education because the Ministry of Education had not completed the negotiation with the institutions in order to give us the articles of the law in good time to put them in the bill you were voting on. And the agreement with the institutions was that the first next bill of the Ministry of Development will also include these two articles that we did not have time to put in the previous law that you voted on. This law that you voted on the two articles that you did not have time to vote on why we did not put them in this bill. And these articles now, which are your law, you raise one - one in the House and you devour them. Get the fuck out of here! No man can figure out with you. You come to the House just to tell your stories without having read the bill, without knowing what these articles are. Because one who has read understands that you cannot be a MP SYRIZA, have voted for the two previous simplifications laws, have passed a central simplification law and blame the current government for bringing articles on simplifications. Uh, that's what you understand. It's above rivers. It simply shows that, unfortunately, the level of the Officerial Response is not what is appropriate in our country. The country needs better Dedicated Opposition and a better parliamentary debate is needed. Today you will be defeated. And I say defeat because you applied for a roll-call vote, thinking that some New Democracy Members will not vote for the article, but you will find that all the articles will be passed by all the Members. After bringing together the bill with the honourable Members of the New Democracy what to vote against? Their own law? So you will suffer in a few minutes and a parliamentary defeat, as you have also suffered out in a society of defeat on the people's markets. I told you in six months we're going with a camera together whoever you want from SYRIZA to walk to a popular market and see what you're going to be dragged into. So instead of trying to get together like civilized people, well-being and giving people a decent future, you come here and say "do away the people's markets" "go against Eleftherios Venizelos", "give the people the supermarkets", do one thing, do the other, which is only in your imagination. I would like to close by mentioning in the Minutes the number of amendments we are accepting, so that no misunderstanding can be made. The general number 1109 and expert 85 shall be accepted. The general number 1111 and specialist 87 shall be accepted. The general number 1115 and specialist 90 shall be accepted. The general figure of 1113 and a specialist 89 shall be accepted. The overall number of 1112 and a special 88 shall be accepted. Only here can I say for the record that the original amendment tabled on how to elect the trade unions of the Greek Police has been withdrawn. She's deleted. It is not in the case of amendments that we are going to vote in favour. I say this because I have also asked a number of colleagues whether or not there is this amendment and I want it to be in the Minutes that this amendment is not voted on today, there is no one in the body of this bill. In conclusion, I would like to thank each and every Member of the New Democracy personally, who I believe in this bill really helped the Ministry of Development's political leadership to formulate the final draft in such a way that it eliminates all the concerns of both producers and traders of the people's markets. I'm not going to name anyone because I might forget someone. But you all know that I have accepted most of the changes that have been made in our parliamentary debate, both in the committees and in the in-depth debates that we have had in the context of our parliamentary group. And I want you to know that this is the nice way to legislate, all together to configure bills that echo the concept of society on particularly serious people's issues. Because whatever SYRIZA and the Left in Greece say, we do not grant the Left nor our popular character, nor the representation of the middle class, nor the representation of the farmers. We are the people's side of the country, and that is what we are proving today. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u256	Minister, has there been a mistake? Did you say in Amendment No 1111 you have taken Article 1? Isn't the whole amendment meant?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u257	Article 1 has been deleted. The whole other one stays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u258	And for the majority rapporteur, won't you say anything?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u259	Mr. Mayor is right. I should like to congratulate Mr Simopoulos. I think we have had a very nice parliamentary debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u260	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment is adjourned: 'Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organization and operation of rural trade, arrangements for the exercise of entertainment activities and for the simplification of activities in education, improvements to company law, other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment and other urgent provisions'. We move on to vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the whole draft law, and they will be voted on separately. The principle of the draft law has been applied for a roll-call vote by Members of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u261	Also, at the outset of the draft law, Members of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement have applied for a roll-call vote, the text of which is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u262	Finally, in principle and in accordance with Article 67 of the draft law, a request has been made for a roll-call vote by the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece and the Members of his party whose text is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u263	I will not read out the list of signatories, because due to the special circumstances, we believe there is the number required by the Rules of Procedure for their submission. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that the three votes should be taken together in one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u264	The House agreed. We are therefore adjourned for ten (10') minutes in accordance with the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u265	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. There will be a roll-call vote on the principle and Article 67 of the draft law. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u266	Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that letters or faxes have been sent to the Bureau by colleagues, pursuant to Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure, in which they give their vote. These votes will be taken into account in the count which will be followed. [[The letters or faxes referred to above are lodged for the minutes and are located in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] [[CHANGING PAGE]] I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u267	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the roll-call vote. At first, 297 Members voted. In favour of the principle, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against the background of the 'OH' principle, 139 Members voted. The draft law was therefore accepted by a majority in principle. Under Rule 67, 297 Members voted. In favour of Rule 67, i.e. 'NAH', 158 Members voted. Against Rule 67, i.e. 'NOV', they voted 139 Members. Article 67 was therefore accepted by a majority. Members' positions, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u268	At the end of the roll-call vote, we proceed to vote on the remaining articles, amendments, the nominee article and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organization and operation of the countryside, arrangements for the exercise of entertainment activities and for the simplification of activities in education, improvements to company law, other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment and other urgent provisions’.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u269	The rapporteurs and the special speakers are requested to submit to the Bureau documents with their votes in order to be included in the official minutes of the House.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u270	Following the conclusion of the vote, the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Reforming and modernising the regulatory framework for the organisation and operation of rural trade, arrangements for the exercise of leisure activities and simplifying the framework of activities in education, improvements to the chamber legislation, other provisions of the Ministry of Development and Investment and other urgent provisions’, was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the principle of Articles and of the whole, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u271	I would ask the House to empower the Bureau for its ratification of the Minutes in its entirety.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u272	Authorization has been provided. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-02-S1-commons.u273	With the consent of the House at 19.32' the meeting is closed for Wednesday 3 November 2021 and 9.00' on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate and b) legislative work, only discussion and vote on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport: "Driving safely: Modernising a framework for the training and examination of candidates for driving licences, provisions on the driving of disabled persons, arrangements for the classification and movement of vehicles of historical interest, and other provisions of responsibility of the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport".
