ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u2	Mr Couridi, you said the 'previous'. Mr. Courides, I also appreciate you as a professor of international law. Is it possible to go up to the Step and say such stories to the Greek people? Honestly, I'm sorry! I don't understand! If you did not understand what the honourable Member and a doctor, Mr Athanasios, said and described it as - and like all the Greek Solution - with this name - take it back now, please, too, because otherwise you will be considered a propagandaist and even a cheap propagandaist - if you do not understand what we are saying here, then I am sorry! How are you a professor? And when you talk about the budget, let go of what the Greek Solution, SYRIZA, and so on. You'll talk about the budget. Say something about education. That's where you belong. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u3	Mr President, please speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Courides, you have the floor. Very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u5	I understand, Mr President, and I do not want to blame the next speaker and the debate that is taking place. I didn't make any personal references. From there on, if you want to talk about fairy tales and various other beliefs and where they are being expelled, I think you will find yourself in a difficult position, Mr Mylonakis, with all due respect. However, let us not go into this debate, because I think we will not finish quickly and easily. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u6	Good. Let's make an effort, I'm very interested in time. I am a two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two-two. Please keep the time. Mrs. Kafantaris has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u7	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I wanted to start my position differently, but I cannot comment on some things from the position of the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Cairides, who preceded it. We cannot talk about funny things in this area, Parliament - by perimeter, I would say - when we had 30 dead yesterday. Nor can we talk about the great successes of this government. We cannot admonish ourselves, say that we have done well, yet say that we are going toward the end and to the pandemic - we have heard this many times, this 'last mile' by Mr Mitsotakis - and that we have this situation, which we have today. Nor can we - let me, Mr President - use the vulgar argument'monoclonal' and 'embolic' in order to develop a specific viewpoint. At the moment, the public health system needs active support, with staff, the creation of new IFs and wherever they exist, to have staff to operate them. Because we know well that there are IDs, as far as equipment is concerned, which cannot function and of course there is also a need for courageous reinforcement of primary health levels. What would the situation today, ladies and gentlemen, if SYRIZA had not ensured that our two more million uninsured fellow citizens have access to health? Why are you coming in isotopeically and compare the era of SYRIZA, a period of memorials, pressures and specifics. You come now and within the pandemic, ladies and gentlemen, New Democracy removes the possibility of prescribing uninsured doctors to private doctors. They should go to hospitals too. The primary grade has been very degraded. On the other hand, the insurers will also go to hospitals. In fact, take responsibility. The pandemic is here, it's present, and it's dangerous. In closing this parenthesis, before I said what I had decided on in the budget - what I have to say, Mr President - Mr Catherides said that we are waiting for twice as much growth. Let the New Democracy commit itself, as Mr Mitsotakis, to double the wage rise while growth rises. Wages, no talk of EUR 800 less wages, which we are proposing - and it is realistic - to give stimulus to the economy as it moves. So you come now and bring a budget away from society, a budget out of place and time, out of reality. One budget aims, as the Deputy Minister of Development said this morning, at a new development model, a growth model, which is for you - it says - investments and exports. Only the New Democracy Government, two and a half years now, has proved to be friendly to investors and not to investment. And the evidence shows that. You spoke of 'practical' budgeting - of course, we do not see it - and of course we do not see it - needs, needs and all that. However, a budget must respond to the needs of society and meet what is required. Does this budget respond to pandemic? Answering the truth? In the pandemic, of course, and it doesn't answer, because once again, as I said before, you think it's over. We'll see about that. I wish! However, unless measures are taken in the public health system in our country and government policy on health does not change, I fear that again here we will be one of the last. Why are you taking the lead and that we will be first in 1923 in investments - the Deputy Minister referred to, etc. - but we are, unfortunately, first in deaths per million. Of course, it does not respond to the huge wave of accuracy, which Mr Georgiadis, Minister for Development, does not see. Thus, it says that only energy went up, not up the goods, when GFCM itself says that 7.4% of workers' purchasing power decreased for October and about 10% in November. He said, of course, that the accuracy was due to the relaunch of the economy. It is, of course, not because of your energy policy! It is not because we are champions in wholesale trade in Europe. It is not because PPC has been privatised and will not play the dominant role - a guide to electricity prices yet, while RAE is seeing that it does not interfere with too much. But with 130 dead people we must be more serious and no one can rejoice. You create an optimistic climate with your basic assumption, as I mentioned before, that pandemic is over. Health expenditure reduced by about 1.7 billion. Today at the Atticon Hospital in the West Athens District of Athens, seventy ranjas - auxiliary beds, of course, you call them - and only one ICU bed available. This situation is reflected in the whole of Greece. COVID's here. On the other hand, after the huge ecological, economic and social destruction of the summer with your handling of fires where 1.4 million acres have been burned, you have created a new Ministry, which is essentially an empty shell, the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, without an organisational plan, without a specific legislative framework, because the new Minister has not committed itself and has not said whether to change the existing N.4662 that is inactive and where it has been used, because the results of this have failed, and of course you are talking about large purchases of equipment, land programmes and all of this. In the budget, however, of the 595 million planned, we will also have 50 of the Resistance Fund and 11 of the Public Investment Programme. In fact, for the purchase of goods and services in the General Secretariat of Civil Protection 522 million, while for the training of the Fire Corps only 531 000 are budgetd. You want growth without society. You underestimate the consequences of pandemic and accuracy, as I said before. You're talking about 6% growth. Is there going to be revenue? How? With fixed wages and pensions? Will we have growth by exacerbating inequalities even more? This development is not about society. Even local government, what development will it have without resources? Take a look at the letter the CEDEFOP sent to the Prime Minister and the issues he raises even for local government. In conclusion, I would say that we believe that the budget should of course be different and that is why we will vote against it. We have another concept of society, of the organisation of the state, of public support for the public sector, of common goods, of support for society, of vulnerable citizens. We want a model of a new society and a living and a existence for the needs of many, with citizens free, creative, with young and new dreams that can be realised, given opportunities, not the system to push them into authoritarianism, fear, individualism - and this is the big issue - on proprietaryity, on quick profit at the expense of everyone's lives and on the environment. These are just another democratic progressive government, and it will soon come. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mrs. Kafantaris. Mr. Vlasis from New Democracy is called at Step and on the basis of the list Mr. Kegeroglu follows from the Change Movement. Here, Mr. Vlassi, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, if I should have described the 2022 budget as three words, then I would just say that this is a budget governed by consistency, continuity and realism, and that is because, on the one hand, we are implementing a series of commitments from us to support society and the citizens, while, on the other, we continue to lay even stronger foundations to make the Greek economy even more resilient, making the most of our country's development potential. All this is to be approached with a realistic programme that takes into account the particular circumstances we are experiencing as a result of the continuation of the pandemic and of inflationary trends worldwide. I have heard some colleagues from Anti-Population condemn the increase in tax revenues, questioning the social amount of this year's budget. Obviously, they did not bother or want to investigate where this increase is coming from. Of course, the revenues of a country in which unemployment will decline to 15.9% in 2021 and 14.1% in 2022 will be increased. Of course we will receive greater revenue, since there is a marked increase of 21.9% in investment, while cumulative growth for the years 2021 and 2022 is of the order of 11.7%, making our country a pioneer in the Eurozone. Believe me, like all the members of the New Democracy, I listen carefully to the positions of the Vice-Presidents. This is also the essence of parliamentary dialogue. You will, however, allow us to disagree and not embrace your view that it wants the country to go with an economic policy of subsidisation and opportunity. We, when we took over the governance of the place, committed to bringing Greece back to normality and putting it into a development path and that is what we are doing. We choose not to give pocket money with temporary micropolitical benefit, but to take measures, the effect of which will be taken by all Greeks over time in their pockets and daily lives. This does not mean that we do not support citizens, households, business. Let us not forget that the total value of pandemic interventions amounts to EUR 43.3 billion over the period 2020-2022. This is the third largest package of support measures as a percentage of GDP in the Eurozone and the fourth world, according to a recent report by the European Stability Mechanism. Let us not forget that in the already existing package of measures for which we have committed and implemented, such as the reduction of HPAI, the reduction of the tax rate on natural persons, the reduction of corporate income tax and the reduction of insurance contributions, additional arrangements are added such as the exemption from the special levy on the solidarity of private sector workers, the reduction of the fee for mobile telephony subscribers and the abolition of young people up to 29 years of age, the reduced VAT rates on transfers, coffee and non-alcoholic beverages and other activities until June 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures and indicators may be extremely useful for the debate we are having here today on the course of the Greek economy, but the truth is that the vast majority of our fellow citizens draw their conclusions in a much simpler way, looking at their pockets and developments around them. How can you convince my compatriots in Arcadia, for example, that things are not going well when they see their place moving forward and being done for the first time after a time when they see the construction of the natural gas network finally beginning when they see our Government having prepared an integrated plan for the liberation and fair growth and transition of Megalopolis? Greece, ladies and gentlemen, is changing. Our country is turning a page and effectively leaves behind the dawn of economic instability and instability. The exterior good testimony for our country that arrived to be described as a model of economic policy by the new German Minister for Finance is accompanied by the response of markets and investors who now see Greece as an attractive, investment destination. When Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis made our government's programming statements in July 2019, he said we would follow the policy of measure, logic and outcome and how to make Greece a pleasant surprise for the Eurozone. Today, almost two and a half years later, his words find full application. And some of you may not recognise what we have achieved, but the Greek people recognize it, and our partners and the international community recognize it, and that is a right to our work and guarantee for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u10	Mr Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement, followed by Mr Zebbles from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget, as is well known, beyond a tool for the functioning of the State with revenue and expenditure, also reflects the content of the policies pursued by the government in question. The analysis of the figures in this year's budget reveals that he lacks a developmental, regional but, above all, a social dimension. In contravening George Papandreou's saying "the numbers are prospering, but people are unhappy" I say that the well-being of the budget figures is only about the few and it is a burden on the many. Growth rates are growing, but the level of life of each family's people is deteriorating. The government is talking about a return to normality which, on the one hand, costs expensive and, on the other, is unfair. In order to tackle the pandemic, 44 billion euros have been spent which, as a percentage of GDP, is one of Europe's largest. The recession at the same time, however, was higher than the European Union's average, and this testifies to the fact that they did not get this money. The big ones got more of their needs and made deposits that increased in 2020 by EUR 14 billion. Small and medium-sized enterprises took much less and had no access to banking liquidity either. Social inequalities have widened and this enlargement continues. The weaker people are now experiencing the margin range. Regularity is based on the distorted production model of the past, on the investment gap, on reduced exports, on oligopolistic structures and on accuracy, on the excessive indirect taxes and charges charged by the Greeks, on non-performing loans and credit contraction. We have a situation where there is no attempt to change with reforms and changes. The Government advertises the national recovery plan 'Greece 2.0', which is neither a 'national' nor a 'project'. These are lists of projects and expenditure fields that are not included in integrated planning. There was no dialogue with Parliament, nor with society and producer organisations. No synergies were foreseen at project and reform level between the resources of the Recovery Fund, the ESDP and the resources of the Common Agricultural Policy. It has a strong conservative political mark on employment and social issues, while demographic policy is missing. It does not overall form a new development and productive model that the country needs and will lead to sustainable development with social justice. The regional dimension and the distinctive role of local government which is valuable for regional sustainable development is lacking. Crete, which has all the prerequisites for its development plan, should it be given access to these sources of financing, can take the lead in the same way as the entire Greek region. There is the hope that there will be a new development that will face regional inequalities and social inequalities. We have, however, had and are constantly doing large-scale communications on the Lefkanopedio. He's gathered 50% of the population in the Lefkapedio. What do you want? Gather 70 percent, 80%? Politicians want each region. We want policies for both the cities and the villages, the countryside and the semi-urban centres of Greece. Only then will there be a new development that will exploit the productive, creative forces of our country and the comparative advantages that Greece has in each region. The energy is produced by the air, the sun belonging to everyone, but the wealth produced goes to the few, to the investors. And a lot of what are they doing? They pay double and triple energy bills. It is a typical example of the absence of a minimum social justice framework. The issues of green development, as we introduced them many years ago, have now been overcome. Today we are talking about 'energy democracy'. You're not listening. Ten years later you might understand that. But it'll be late. There are no initiatives and synergies for the defence and shipbuilding industry. While - as I will say below - we are moving on to the necessary armaments programmes, there is no synergy, added value, to stay at our place, to businesses and to workers. The social budget hides serious deficits. No expenditure is provided for the reduction of outstanding pensions, but neither are the expenditure necessary for the reimbursement of supplementary pension and gift reductions from June 2015 to May 2016, which is around EUR 2 to 2,5 billion, in accordance with the decisions of the Council of State. Reduced expenditure for the OAED is provided for in the OAED. Unemployment benefits are reduced by 200 million and OPEKA's preferential benefits by 86 million. They are indicative of the government's perception. The Prime Minister treats the country's retired people with a worse than a subsidised spirit, as New Democracy's former colleague said. Instead of an institutional reinstatement of the ESS with a new system that will strengthen the low pensioners and the weak, they announce just before the festivals of EUR 200, 250, so, in the form of charity, as if the state were a private donor that helps weak people in need. Finally! You were committed to abolishing the Katrugalu law and reintroducing the ESS. Not only did you not, but you come to argue that this can no longer be done. For the Ministry of Defence's budget, I draw attention to two issues. It is not enough to increase the appropriations in the ordinary budget to the major category of fixed assets markets to cover armaments programmes of the Armed Forces, or those which have been announced or already approved by Parliament. The second is that the required appropriations have not been provided for the major category of employee benefits and no problems have been resolved, as the political leadership has committed itself. We'll have to see the human resources. It's not just the equipment programs. It's for the human potential of the Department of National Defence of the Armed Forces. There should be special attention. I stress, ladies and gentlemen, the fact that once again it seems to be a great opportunity to use the many available resources with transparency and priorities and to pursue sustainable development and social justice policies aimed at a strong Greece in a country where its society will be brought to prosperity. This, however, is not just a question of the budget figures but, above all, of the policies on which the budget figures are decided. The Change Movement is here with its social-democratic progressive identity and with an integrated proposal for home and society and reliably demands citizens' confidence in promoting new change. We are voting against the budget. We are voting on the expenditure for the National Defence and the Presidency of the Republic. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u12	After Mr Zebilis, who has already announced himself, the next five colleagues are Mrs Malama, Mr Andrianos, Mr Syntrakis, Mr Vartzopoulos and Mr Giolas. Mr. Zebble, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, sometimes the game of governance can be so unpredictable that it can even overhear Harold McMillan's historic phrase for the ruler's awkwardness in the face of the extraordinary events. So no one could imagine today, twenty-two months after the first case was recorded in the country, that the pandemic crisis would still give rise to anxiety and uncertainty. No one could even think that at the same time we would have a storm of events and crises of great intensity in fields such as geopolitical, energy, but also climate crisis. Especially since, for Greece, this multi-level trial has been a crisis in the crisis since 2010, and then our country has been in fiscal adjustment programmes. However, the Greek Government has made available the third largest support package to deal with the effects of the pandemic as a percentage of GDP in the Eurozone and the fourth worldwide according to the recent report by the European Stability Mechanism. In particular, over the period 2020-2022 more than EUR 43.3 billion has been allocated to support measures for society and citizens. This in itself demonstrates the correctness and effectiveness of the economic policy applied. A policy of courageous reforms that emphasised tax reliefs, reductions in contributions, investment incentives, privatizations, restructuring of public bodies and non-performing loans and which resulted in the strengthening and growth of our national economy. This fact is also demonstrated by the provisional information provided by ELSTAT on the progress of the Greek economy in the third quarter of 2021. It is evidence that the growth rate of the economy in the nine months of 2021 is now up to 9.3%, which is the second best performance in the Eurozone according to EUROSTAT. But also international houses such as DBRS, updating their forecasts for the Greek economy, see growth lasting and further decline in the unemployment rate. As well as for the overall management of the pandemic, Greece was assessed as one of the most successful states according to the recent report by the trustworthy Bertelsman Foundation. In action fields such as welfare resilience during the pandemic, the functioning of democratic institutions and the organisation of crisis management in Greece has achieved superior positions in the relevant evaluation scales. In particular, as regards the welfare state, the report points out that the country's health system was underfinanced and unprepared before the crisis, but the government managed to strengthen it decisively by doubling the number of IM beds. We therefore see that during this critical period the government has been tested where the most resilient metals are melting. She was tested in the elevation of the extreme crises and was not bent, she did not back up, she did not even suspend her modernistic work any day. On the contrary, the events have unfolded its will and stubbornness. And he did a lot. It has achieved a great deal in the state, society, the economy, international relations. It achieved a lot because it forged a relationship of truth and trust with society. And that's our big difference because the question was raised before with SYRIZA. Or isn't it? Tomorrow, at the benches of the Athens Chamber of Commerce, Trimela is sitting for the fifth time, I think, Panagiotis Lafazanis. What for? Because this pure ideologist who left the ministerial headquarters believed and defended SYRIZA's ideologies and slogans to the end. And you loaded the man apart from the peculiar offence and half the criminal code. In reality, however, the person who has been condemned and even irrevocably condemned to the crisis of the Greek people is the populism and demagogy which have made their appearance today in this Chamber and, indeed, in a pandemic, serving exclusively small-party interests. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget brings the country back to development and perspective with arms competitiveness and investment, focusing on e-government, green and balanced regional development by relaunching major infrastructure projects, by implementing the four road projects including the work of bypassing Chalkidiki-Savena, a project of flagship and importance, as the regional budget of EUR 100 million will improve the road safety and quality of life of the inhabitants by creating new growth prospects. Also, in an update and maturation phase, the necessary road works on the bypasses of Vassilikos, Amarynthos and Alive, the launch of which is a precondition for Evia coming out of this special road segregation. In particular, however, we should attach great importance to projects with modern standards and resistant to the climate crisis of plumbing works, such as the flood protection of Lelada, but also to critical rural and water infrastructures such as the Horses and Manicides dams. After all, the tragic effects of the climate crisis have also been addressed by the great ecological disaster in northern Evia. It is very important that the Prime Minister in the consultation of the city of Istia made a commitment yesterday to the Chalkida Strofilia road, a total of fifty-six km long, which will shorten the length of the journey by forty minutes by providing safety and comfort to the road users. We are proud of the fact that with these large projects and the rehabilitation programme we will keep the inhabitants in their place. We will keep them standing and proud with their heads high to lead themselves in trying to regain Northern Evia a place of beautiful, fertile and productive, a place with a much stronger development footprint that will be a model and model of restoration from natural disasters. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u14	Mrs Malama will also speak and then the Deputy Minister, Mr Tsakiris, will speak and we will continue with the four colleagues I have announced. Here, Mrs Malama, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the figures of the state budget for 2022 are relentless and show the truth that the government is trying to hide. The economy has returned to the times of twin deficits and the energy and inflation crisis has nullified every prospect of improving the purchasing power and quality of life of the citizen. The government remembered the renowned creative accounting to present a virtual, rather illusion of the reality of the Greek economy. However, the official figures for the state budget leave no room for optimism. And we're explaining: The state budget provides for a primary deficit of 14,000,000 euros, a deficit of 10,000,000 euros in the current account balance, i.e. imports and an increase in public debt by another 5,000,000 euros. These sizes, combined with the inflation that runs with 5%, do you know what it means? National poverty, expensive fuel, exclusion of a huge proportion of citizens from energy, a cold house, that is - to say things understandably - in winter for people. You say we have a high rate of growth. But you read the indicators of recovery in a misleading way. You claim that this year the growth of the economy runs at 6% and you triumph, but reality is quite different. Last year we had a recession in the economy by eleven percentage points. The country's GDP went down by 11%. Since last year, then, the economy has been saying that it will only cover half. In simple terms, for every 10 euros lost last year, only 6 euros are returned this year. So we are talking about nothing - absolutely no explosive development. Of course, what really concerns us is what has been left in the citizen's pocket. The figures here tell the truth: For every 2 euros lost from each citizen's wallet this year, only 1 euro will return this year. In other words, the restrictive measures of the pandemic, the Lockdown, the redundancies, the padlocks, unemployment, have cost half the citizen's purchasing power from 2019 until today. In English simply, in 2019, we lived twice as well as we will live in 2022. These and in response to where we handed you the economy and where you're taking it. You say you support the real economy. You're lying. For 2022 you prepare 3,500,000 euros of new taxes, money to be deducted from the market and from the payroll and the pensioner's wallet. At the same time, you have excluded any new measures to support the economy and the citizens. There is no support measure for businesses, but there is no support measure - otherwise, since you will have them return the advances you have given them - to the workers and the unemployed. You are reducing all benefits and at the same time making fun of the citizens with the allowances you are announcing, but you are not giving them. People are still waiting for their heating allowance. Why are you late to pay for it? Explain to us. You advertised the child’s birth allowance and told us new parents that it has been frozen for two months. What are you waiting for to give it up? You have imposed an informal payment stop to get the numbers out. But get out and say it. You've got SYRIZA's social dividend. This year, however, the world will be spending another year without money. And that's what you call growth? Do you know what it is? Creative accountability of numbers in a real economy that boasts and a quality of life that worsens for citizens. And, of course, the pot is no more than a reduction in the health budget by EUR 820,000,000. Officials have been out and they are trying to hide the truth of the numbers. But there is also the truth of the daily life of the narrow hospitals. There is also the truth of the citizens who, because of this situation in public health, resort - those who have money - to private health structures for their needs. So to them, you can answer, not to us, to see what they have to say to you. In conclusion, I should also like to refer to my area of competence, the area of Macedonia - Thrace of the Ministry of Interior. What does his budget show? Significant increase in the budget relating to the Office of the Secretary-General and to his posters and a corresponding reduction in the regular salary line, with a reduction in permanent staff in the sector due to the non-retirement. What does that mean? You are creating year after year a cosmopolitan state, with inflated ministers offices and at the same time reducing the true ability of the state to manage public policies. If we would like to remember something of your old slogan, we would say that you are bringing back the notorious're-establishment of the state', of blue appointments, that is, of the costly ministerial offices. In particular, as far as the Macedonian-Thracian sector is concerned, however, you are aware of it as a customary structure, which will serve only to take up a position in the first series of rituals, parades, crowns, etc. At the same time, you are fervently reducing the human resources and responsibilities of the sector in essential and critical areas, such as the evaluation of private investment projects, for example. This is the truth of the budget for the Macedonia - Thrace sector as much as you are trying to hide it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, can I have the floor for a minute, please?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u17	Here, Minister, you have the floor for a minute. Of course, not every time you hear something to ask for the floor. I don't give you time as you're disciplined. You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u18	I have kept notes from various colleagues, but I am taking the floor for the last colleague. Madam colleague, you said about creative accounting, you said that the loss of wealth is eleven units in 2020 and the six will be replaced. I inform you that the loss is nine units in 2020 and at least seven will be replaced. So what you said is utopian, unrealistic and unrealistic a year ago is being implemented. It's just the statements of your officers. Secondly, you said that the country is poor this year. The available income for citizens, the money in households' pockets only in the second quarter of 2021 is EUR 33 000 000, while in the second quarter of 2019 - where you ruled - it was EUR 32 000 000. So the overall wealth in citizens' wallets is higher in the second quarter of 2021. And finally, you said about the heating allowance. The heating allowance has been paid, not ‘it will be paid’. It's paid...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u19	An advance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u20	EUR 55.5 million was granted to three hundred and eighty-five thousand of one beneficiary. The next dose is on December 30th and I can remind you that this is all an advance. For your days, you did not give an advance, but you did at the end of the period next year. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u21	Here, Mr. Chakiri, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the state budget for the financial year 2022 is being discussed here today in plenary session of the Greek Parliament, a budget which is being discussed in the wake of a global health, economic and social crisis, which, like her, has to live all of mankind since the last World War, and we all wish that it will be the last time that the budget is being discussed under such circumstances. Uncertainty, however, has begun to give the dogma to optimism, since we have a super gun in our patron, this kind of vaccination. And while we see exit from the pandemic, other parameters - such as energy costs - are trying, without being very successful, to blur this hopeful image, since Greece is at a better level than the other European countries. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is being tabled much more favourable than last year's budget. Despite the difficulties, 2021 has been a year of unprecedented recovery and recovery of the economy at spectacular growth rates. In this debate, we are called on to vote on a budget which marks not only the next day of a huge health crisis that we have experienced for two consecutive years, but which will record the transition of the economy from the strong 2021 recovery that passes, to the highest and sustainable growth in 2022, through a more extroverted, competitive, innovative, fair, smart, green and digital production model. Our country in 2022 can also have a strong and stable economy, leading at European but also global level. As the Minister of Finance said - and I repeat just his words, because they are important - "This year's budget creates a sense of realistic optimism for the prospects of the Greek economy, and this is because it records the positive performance of the Greek economy, confirming the effectiveness of our policy, highlights the country's important development potential, responds with adequacy to the new challenges and incorporates policies that combine economic efficiency with social justice". In the Ministry of Development and Investment - and as far as my powers are concerned - we have managed to approve our country first of all from all the other European countries for the new Regional Development Partnership, the new ESDP, for the 2021-2027 programming period, which also marks the beginning of the implementation of an ambitious regional development strategy, as you can see. The new ESDP has five main pillars: innovative and smart economic transformation, energy transition, green and blue investment, transport infrastructure, human resources and spatial investment, as well as two specific objectives that are a fair transition, demining, as well as technical assistance. However, the bet for our country is not only to be able to absorb European funds - one of which we have proved that we can achieve it, since a few days ago, and after hard work, our country first went across the European Union to absorb the existing NSRF at a rate close to 80% - but our bet now is to make proper use of it, in line with the needs created during the pandemic. Let me remind you that in the past European Union funds for combined transport, port infrastructure, have been poorly exploited, contrary to other countries, which today support their further development on the basis set at the time, highlighting and competitive advantages. The efficient use of the co-financed resources of the ESRB was one of the main public funding instruments of the Greek economy throughout the past year and the pandemic. In the conditions of the unprecedented crisis caused by the pandemic, we responded with a serious strategy and planning to the dual objective that was entrusted to us, namely, the rational use of the resources of the NRP and their effective use in tackling the effects of the pandemic on the economy. We have worked with coordinated moves, which were aimed at improving the institutional framework of the co-financed programmes, simplifying the procedures for the inclusion and monitoring of investments, continuing to monitor progress at project level through specific action plans, mobilising and energising co-ordinated ministries and regions, the smooth financing of projects through the Public Investment Programme, which has been overtaken over the past two years, and the targeted revision of the operational programmes of the ESDP last June and November. The high rates of absorption have also been reflected in increased requests for payment to the European Commission. A total of EUR 12.8 billion has been requested so far and has been invaded by state funds. More of these, together with national funding, have been to the market, obviously. But also flagship projects of over EUR 200 million were integrated in 2021 and show the development, upgrading and the social face of our country and I could mention a number of things. In conclusion, I would like to say that a significant contribution in 2021 - which will continue to exist through European programmes and in 2022 - is the strengthening and access to financing for small and medium-sized enterprises through financial instruments and, for example, the fact that, in the middle of a pandemic with the financial instruments only in 2021, the Guarantee Fund and the TFSF gave more than EUR 3 billion to more than thirty thousand companies. Ladies and gentlemen, I call on you all to vote in favour of the 2022 budget, which, in my opinion, lays the foundations for our country's return to normality, while relaunching the economy with stronger and more stable prospects. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u23	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, can I just ask the Minister one question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u25	No, Mr. Femmelle. If Parliamentary representatives start asking many questions to the ministers on Friday, 50 Members will not speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u26	I would only like the floor for 20 seconds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u27	Here, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, since you're here, and there's beside you and the Minister of Finance, there's a question all over the market, construction and small and medium-sized enterprises. There is a delay in payments of at least 1 billion to the NSRP, which has to do with all the small and medium-sized ones who have actually joined into legislation on pandemic measures, but also with all construction projects, very long delays, which have deprived the market in the face of Christmas. At least, the rumours say that this comes because there is a lack of payments from the Ministry of Finance. However, the point is that whoever is responsible has raised a big issue today: are the problems in terms of the implementation of the ESDP serious? That's our question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u29	Mr. Tsakiris, you have the floor to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u30	Thank you for the question. First of all, I would also read that there has been one billion lost from the NSRP. There's not a 1 billion missing from the NRP, obviously. As you know, we have very accelerated the execution of the ESDP and, therefore, payments. Especially with the pandemic, I should like to tell you that we have had five hundred thousand integrations of small and medium-sized enterprises and various other actions, which must go into a difficult payment mechanism so far - which we have simplified too much - and these people are paid as the actions go on. We have reduced the payment time of the ESRB in two to three months, unlike previous periods, which took over twelve months. Nevertheless, the system is overloaded, payments are made at a very fast pace, but the demand that exists cannot be met by this mechanism. I say it publicly. It's only a matter of days that some people have been paid, not paid yet. There's no payment stop. There is a huge demand for payments and a mechanism, which is simplified, even though we have built it well, cannot respond because of the great demands. I repeat that the payment times of the ESRB - you know very well how difficult it is - have fallen by far. So everyone's gonna be paid very soon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u31	Mr Ioannis Andrianos, Member of the New Republic of the Argolidos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u32	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget debate, like the previous budget debate, is under the ongoing range of pandemic and its consequences in society and the economy. This is why, and on this occasion, we must recognise once again the huge struggle that every day, all these months, people of the front line are paying for the fight against pandemic, doctors, nursing staff, administrative staff in hospitals, teachers and, of course, all the workers who keep the economy alive and ensure that the necessary products and services are provided. We also have this opportunity to send our fellow citizens a message of compliance with safety measures and, above all, of vaccination for those who are still hesitant to date. The year that passed us was a difficult year, too. It was marked by the need to manage the emergency needs of the pandemic, both in terms of the National Health System and in support of those who felt heavier about the impact on their staff and family income. In this difficult environment Greece not only stood up but also started a dynamic growth path, with growth closing to 7% in 2021. Based on the conservative estimates, we will not only have covered the losses involved in 2022, as the Minister said before, but we will also have come forward. And this, despite the fact that the consequences of the pandemic continue this year. Once again Greek women and Greeks see, judge and compare. And regardless of their ideological achievements, they are well aware that it is a good thing that in this difficult and unprecedented adventure today's generations, in these ignorant waters, which require seriousness, efficiency, responsibility and the possibility of continuous adjustments and enrichment of the policies applied, the government of New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis is at the wheel of the country. It is characteristic in terms of the macroeconomic dimension of the crisis that the package taken by the Greek Government for the support of households and businesses, which exceeds for the period 2020 to 2022, EUR 43 billion on a cash basis, was the third largest in terms of GDP and the fourth in the world. We have already taken measures in over seventy categories and are constantly being enriched. After all, the effective and successful negotiation of the government within the European Union has given rise to the additional, valuable and necessary resources of the Recovery and Resilience Plan, but also recently to the guarantee of EUR 19.3 billion from the new CFP, i.e. to the avoidance of reductions, despite the fact that the total amount available to European countries has been considerably reduced and in many countries there has been a 10% and 15% reduction. In this extremely difficult environment, the government is implementing a policy mix which allows for effective response to the needs of the pandemic and for effective assistance to those in need, such as the small pensioners, the disabled, the beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, on the one hand, without derailing public finances and without making further burdens on the real economy with new and more taxes. I particularly want to focus on critical areas of health and primary production. As far as health is concerned, over the last two years the ESS has been strengthened with 12 thousand, nursing and other ancillary staff, with two thousand permanent and two thousand subsidiary doctors, while the ISS beds have more than doubled the five hundred seventy-five in 2019 today in the thousand two hundred seventy-seven. This is the reality that keeps in this exacerbation of cases in need of hospitality alive. And, of course, we continue to strengthen the ESS, because no one says that there are no needs. As far as the agricultural sector is concerned, I would like to highlight the EUR 63 million for direct support for farmers in 2021, the EUR 225 million through repayable advances, the reduction of the GSP in animal feed from 13% to 6%, the favourable provisions of the Stage Installations Act, the necessary arrangements for land workers, the immediate response of the ELGA to the sadly more and more frequent, extreme weather phenomena, which cause significant damage to production. I would also like to highlight the measures that the government is taking to tackle the second major crisis, the energy crisis, which created exogenous factors, as we all know, such as a great increase in gas. These are measures which significantly relieve households and must, of course, be extended as far as the agricultural current is concerned, as the needs of producers are increased, both for the irrigation during the summer season, which has been extended, as well as for the winter season, especially for Argolida, when windmills are used to protect against ice. Of course, they use agricultural power and our livestock farmers in their machines or in icecakes. Ladies and gentlemen, in an extremely difficult environment the government is not only facing, with daily battle, data that are constantly changing, with new mutations, the consequences of the pandemic crisis, but also preparing decisively the next day with a new sustainable, extroverted and competitive model, which will deliver positive results, with jobs and substantial opportunities for creating and preparing for society as a whole, especially for the least privileged. After all, the growth leap taken by our economy this year is not only a result of the expansionist monetary policy of the European Union, but primarily a proof of efficiency, seriousness and confidence in the real potential of Greece and the Greeks. The Government of the New Democracy and Kyriakos Mitsotakis in the most unfavourable circumstances each day proves that he has the will and the opportunity to ensure that this development process will continue after the end of the pandemic. Day after day we lay the foundations for a strong and productive economy, for an economy of prosperity and solidarity. This year's budget of 2022 is also on the table, and I therefore urge colleagues to vote in favour of it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, too. Mr Emmanouil Synthrakis is called in Stepma by the Communist Party of Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. The 2022 budget marks a greater intensity of the anti-population attack, and of the government and capital, confirming that, whether in growth or in crisis, the people will continue to bleed in order to get the profits of business groups in the name of capitalist growth. It confirms that development, whether green or sustainable or fair, whatever colour and form of management is, is no longer capitalist. Despite the insurmountable tragedy and the dramatic situation experienced by the inhabitants of many regions of the country by the catastrophic fires, floods and earthquakes, the 2022 budget after 2021 again predicts crumbling in the face of the disaster range and the need to arm the country. There are still dozens of homeless people from the earthquakes in Crete and those living in houses do not have electricity and winter is heavy. They have not been compensated for 100% of dwellings, infrastructure, professional agricultural equipment destroyed. EUR 1 has not been given to farmers, oil producers, who have suffered enormous damage to plant and livestock, and you have recently cut the aid to farmers. Determined by permanent staff and equipment are the public structures and civil protection services, the Fire Corps, forest services, natural disaster control and recording services, the technical and town planning services of the municipalities and regions. And instead of the government taking into account the urgent and increased needs of the people for flooding, anti-military and anti-nuclear protection of human life, in order not to mourn more victims - such as in Matty, Mandra and elsewhere - it presents non-business projects and reconstruction plans for flooding, fire-fighting and earthquake-fighting areas, seeking to turn destruction into an opportunity for the interests of large business groups, to turn destruction from the destruction of northern Euboea, Arkalochori in Crete and other areas, into profitable opportunities for large business groups. That's what the new government plans for. That's why the Prime Minister and other government officials and members of the Reconstruction Commission went to Isaiah to dilute the new business plans to throw ashes in the eyes of the people of the region. They did the same before in Arkalochori, moving the Prime Minister's finger to the earthquakes, pointing them the responsibility for equalisation from the catastrophic earthquake, trying to make the people accountable for their own crime, for abandonment crime as a follow-up to all previous governments - SYRIZA, PASOK, formerly in New Democracy - but also to get their consent to the new business plans of "TERNA", in the area that builds up the new private airport. The big words about the holistic reconstruction plan in northern Evia and the reconstruction plan in Arkalochori are aimed at hiding that truth and covering its classic, anti-grassy character. But the people don't bite. He built their own commissions to fight claim. He judges you strictly, on the basis of his own interests and needs, and he will not stop until his demands are fully met. On the substance, your plans fall on the burnt earth and the ruins, which you use as an opportunity to promote the interests of big capital that seeks new profit fields. In northern Evia to promote green business with investors to be designated as contractors of the burnt areas for the installation of new wind farms, and in Arkalochori you convert the area – with the support of SYRIZA and PASOK, on an infinite track, extension of the new airport, the "blue business" of the "TERNA" consortium and the Indian group. Such development you all serve, so you specialize in regional planning in the new data created by fires and earthquakes, in order to promote the major business interests in tourism, energy, agri-food and construction. All urban and spatial planning studies, the creation of a new forestry area management body, the new models of settlement in earthquake-stricken areas and the thoughts of setting up an earthquake management body for the rebuilding of floating areas confirm that the main orientation is not how the affected will be relieved, how workers, unemployed professionals and farmers in those areas will be supported. Your aim, in order to promote these projects, is to gradually privatise state responsibilities for spatial planning and fire protection, initially transfer responsibility to municipalities and regions, and then to develop new financial instruments and PPP programmes for the creation of fire safety infrastructures and general civil protection. Of course, in an environment that is investment-friendly and the profitability of entrepreneurs, municipalities and regions cannot stay outside to serve capitalist development - through suffocating and continuous underfunding - for private projects, such as the northern road axis in Crete, to serve capitalist development on the island as well. This is a project where construction and maintenance costs will be paid by the people in the form of tolls, as you say, flexible so that there are no popular reactions. And that's not just New Democracy, it's a hand in hand with SYRIZA and PASOK. And development agencies, public limited companies in municipalities and regions, take the role of mediation of local and regional administrations, with business green and digital projects through PPPs, so as to run the business projects. They will be used for the carving of the people in the well-known logic of rewarding "pay to have", but also as a vehicle for further overthrows of labour relations. All institutional reforms so far - 'KARIKRIATIS', 'KALIKRATIS', 'KLITHENIS' - have led to the conversion of the municipalities into part of the state mechanism, to regulate the competition rules of business groups that are bleaking the works and services to the municipalities. More than two hundred powers have passed on to municipalities in recent years, but without funding and without the required human resources. Mayors, municipal councils, are used as an amortizer to dismantle the popular reactions and dismiss the responsibilities of the central authority, or as carmen of business interests, or even as self-hosts for problems presented in their municipalities. For 2022, central self-resources are planned to be EUR 2.656.000, while so-called 'own revenue', i.e. fees and taxes, will exceed state funding and will amount to EUR 2,722,000. The proportion of State funding and own revenues over time changes for own revenue and demonstrates the tax mechanism at the local level as well. State funding for municipalities compared to 2009, starting from the crisis, has decreased by more than 62%. This reduction and the vertical increase in own revenues are a proof that decentralisation of responsibilities is aimed at bleeding out people's households. In any case, the assessment of the JRC is verified that the local administration has a mission to enhance the competitiveness of capital through the promotion of privatisation of social structures, children's stations, CIDAP, CIDAP MEDA and services, such as the collection and management of waste, the commercialisation of the land of free spaces, the refurbishment, the penetration of business groups in sectors such as tourism, energy, renewable sources, transport, agri-food sector, the stimulation of the social economy, the further commercialisation and culture and sport. The essence is one, that today there are all the possibilities, the necessary materials, knowledge, the labour and scientific potential, to design the economy of the country and the wealth produced to return to the people themselves, from the people with labour power. Only then can there be an organised anti-nuclear, anti-military, anti-military plan, so that the people can live in their place, with permanent work and decent income, with upgraded infrastructure and services fully staffed, road network safe, without tolls, only public free health, education, culture, sport, with secure cheap housing, high-quality life. So no one's going to give it to the people. Capital never grants. It ends up with the wealth produced by the working people. These will be conquered with struggles, because only the people can save the people, a prerequisite for living better and with dignity. We are voting against the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u35	Thank you. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Varzopoulos Dimitrios, from Thessaloniki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u36	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, it is the third budget to be implemented under the rule of an insurmountable natural tragedy. 2022 will be a key year for reasons and health and economic, inextricably intertwined. Ladies and gentlemen, the age of deficits has gone back. In 2023, we must again achieve primary surpluses, of course, seeking to be smaller than those decided. In order to do so, however, we must guarantee our credibility both with regard to our partners and with regard to the markets. The European Central Bank's exceptional pandemic programme for the acquisition of assets ends and despite any success of the reinvestment programme, it is absolutely clear and existential that we should have an investment grade as soon as possible. In addition, budgetary discipline, in particular with regard to the expenditure side, is not without a reduction in the objectives of the Stability Pact. This means that the scope for further aid to households and businesses, in addition to those envisaged, is sadly slick. This also means that we must avoid measures to tackle the pandemic which will have an impact on the economy and cause a reduction in consumer movement. This means, ladies and gentlemen, that, in order to fortify our economy, we must control the pandemic, namely not only the officials who are circulating but also the others who wanted it to be produced and come to us from the big tanks of the billions of uninvasive African and Indian peninsula. This means that patenters should cooperate with producers producing billions of the required doses. This requires more than political will and time. The only way, therefore, in the intervening period, we can build an immunity wall in the rest of the world is the mandatory vaccination that will certainly come in the next few months with the inspiration of Europe. We, therefore, in order to fortify our economy, should continue our brave initiative and extend these compulsory vaccinations to professional groups of the population which serve the general public, such as, for example, retailers - something like this is happening in New York - workers in focus, tourism and, of course, following Italy's example of expanding compulsory vaccination throughout the Greek public, to all workers in the general government. Ladies and gentlemen, despite all these uncertainties, what is absolutely safe is the radical reform currently taking place in the way the state is run and running. Look, the first of all the advice given by the Commission at the time of the memorandum in our country by the TFGR of Horst Reichenbach was to adopt the final way in which the French Government operates. We did this by creating the General Secretariat for the Coordination of Government Work in 2013. The final way in which the Mitsotakis Government successfully follows the single draft government policy, which is divided into policy areas and specific annual programmes. All this is reflected in the performance budget that we have introduced in the budget last year, and this year it is presented in full, in line with the international classification of government functions proposed by the OECD. This creates a new reality in the way the Greek State operates. It enables us to assess both the service and the political administrations on the basis of the famous KPIs, the key performance indicators. This enables us now to choose heads with quantitative criteria, which we will be discussing in the next few weeks in the redesign of the EBRD, and to set performance criteria and also negligence incentives. This should, of course, be extended everywhere to the towns, investment authorisations and licenses, project and procurement contests, to the evaluation of the educational results of the PISA, to the pace and speed of judiciary decisions, to the assessment of administrations and medical addresses at the ESS on the basis of the economic and healing results of their units, everywhere in the public sector. Ladies and gentlemen, this possibility, of changing the way the public operates, together with the health certainty that compulsory vaccination will give us, finally enables us, using the last year of the first four years of Mitsotakis, to start all those social reforms which, unfortunately, have not been allowed to date. That is to say: to build a single social service which will transform the minimum guaranteed income into a personalised, European standards-based basket of guaranteed and decent living services. To create a national welfare system by meeting the needs of all people with mental and physical disability. To modernise the ESS. We must finally create a primary health system that meets all needs with absolute compensation from the insurance fund and with a free choice of doctors among the enslaved individuals. To create an educational reform that will enable the production of technical staff, namely vocational and technical education, to meet the needs of our economy. To change the productive model by using the Development Fund's funds by upgrading our caretakers and enabling individual, very small, small and medium-sized enterprises to become part of the modernisation and economies of scale. In other words, ladies and gentlemen, we must finally build a social state that we owe ourselves for two hundred years. That is why they deserve congratulations to the financial staff responsible for this budget the first major step. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u37	Thank you. Mr Ioannis Giolas will now be given the floor from SYRIZA. Mr. Yoyakas will be followed by New Democracy and the second cycle will be completed with Mr. Bubas from the Greek Solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. The 2022 budget, although it was drawn up under a worrying uncertainty regime due to the global health crisis, is, however, inspired by unexplained over-optimism. On the other hand, it is anti-social because it limits social spending and increases the amounts of direct and indirect taxation by affecting the vast majority of the people. Why are we criticising you for excessive and unfounded oversimplification? Because the evolving health crisis has far exceeded your previously predictions of the course of the epidemic. From the November and the first fortnight of December, the cases, deaths and intangibles are clearly worse than the corresponding last year and the financial consequences of the restrictive measures have already been announced and those which may follow. Your good forecasts based on the rate of growth estimated for 6.9% in 2021 are therefore not safe at all, as are many other factors, in addition to poor health, are also expected to negatively affect the country's economy. As a particularly unstable and worrying factor, the not-so-transient phenomenon of accuracy and of rising inflation appears. This 4.8% of the rise for the month of November, a record rate of ten years, negatively affects the daily lives of citizens and restricts the consumption of key primary species. We automatically have a record of the sales of supermarkets where 10% drops in turnover per month. The 45.2% increase in heating oil, the lower increases for diesel and petrol, the outrageous increases in electricity, as well as the fall in gas prices by 180%. Who refuses? Who can question it? The non-linking of these wages to the evolution of inflation and the high profitability of large business groups and supranational business groups is expected to hit first of all the lower income layers by eliminating the minimal and embarrassing increase of 2% for the minimum wage decided for the coming year, and already three years have passed without any adjustment or more appropriate increase. When US Federal Bank President Powell estimated just a few days ago that there is a risk of high inflation and, respectively, the IMF head, Mr. Christine Lagard, correcting her previous assessment, said that inflation would not be temporary, but may last longer, forecasts for our country's economy could not be so prosperous. And the growth forecast for 2022 of 4.5% will probably turn out to be risky and over-optimistic, since it is certain that it will be undermined by the above-mentioned uncertainties. The undeniable, however, is that the merciful increases in wages by 2% - what we are talking about now - will lead to a reduction in the purchasing power of the weak already low-income income, and will now indicate the need for automatic indexation. Yes, we must at some point discuss this and put the matter on the table so that workers' wages can rise and ensure that the economic needs of the people's classes and the small and medium-sized ones are minimized. As for the tip of the EUR 250 that you have decided, gentlemen, to give few families in a so-called replacement of the minimum guaranteed income, all that shows is your social analgesia and your maximum hypocrisy to suffice to be merciful to our impossible and vulnerable fellow citizens instead of the tenth permanent pension with the cap set by us, but it had been passed and decided definitively, we have also hypocritically adopted it. Since then, you have been buying a field. Your Government, by recording the corresponding funds in government revenues, is making tax raid on the shoulders and far above the majority of taxpayer households and business. It is indicative that VAT revenues are rising by 9.6% and incomes by 9.32%, in such a vicious and over-estimating proportions that even exceed the expected GDP growth that you estimate from 6.9% this year to 4.5% of the year. However, increases in taxes, incomes, VAT at 10% are almost twice as high. Your prediction of increasing investment by 21.9%, bearing in mind the economic data and all the adverse effects that I have already mentioned, plus an increase in transport, raw materials and oil in 1921 to 11.7%. So how do you overhear it and take it to 21.9%? It is also the downward trend that they have written and exports from 22.5% that you have budgetd to well less than 14.1%. And that's where you fell out. Finally, the public investment programme presents a worrying decline in the expenditure side compared to 2020, but also in '21' in the current year, it amounts to 7.8 billion a year, while 2020 was 10.6 billion and 8.3 billion more in '21' and the figure you anticipate is similar to that in the difficult period of '15-19. These are unprecedented and unjustified cost reductions, which, unfortunately, clearly characterises social costs, as these amounts are "transferable" payments for grants and returns to TAs, social security agencies, hospitals and primary health units. The Ministry of Health, with the significant reduction in its costs of EUR 820 million in the middle of a pandemic, shows that it will bear a heavy burden on your choice, namely the reduction of social costs. So you finally reward the superhuman efforts of health. The applause and hypocrisy went off. The greater fall in expenditure will be borne by the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, which will record a fall in transfers of about 3.5 billion, where there are also a decrease in social benefits of 1.7 billion and a reduction in funds even for the unemployed by 150 million. I do not want to appear as a Sibylla - the master, you will know - but it is very likely that the derailment of your budget will be on the side of your unfounded and over-estimating forecasts, since the issue of quantitative relaxation on the part of the European Central Bank will not be raised again when the pandemic - and when - is extinct, coupled with the extermination of the 37 billion reserve that we have covered in the public funds. Unfortunately, the fear of disastrous economic consequences and contagious dangers of a new conglomerate for the Greek people is gloomy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u39	Mr Vassiliou Yoyakas from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u40	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this year's government budget of 2022 is on the table for economic policy this year. It is therefore important to see what happened in 2021 and why we can be optimistic about the economy in the year it comes. In the last few days, we have had a very good news. Estimates for growth of the economy in 2021 have been revised upwards. Following ELSTAT's communication on increasing GDP for the third quarter by 13.4% per annum, Greek banks and international financial houses provide for a growth rate of 7.9% to 8.9% compared with a conservative projection of 6.9% in the budget for 2021. This initial expectation of economic growth, ladies and gentlemen, came as a result of the gradual lifting of the restrictive measures which in turn led to the reinvigoration of economic activity. Tourism has significantly recovered private consumption as a result of increased savings and improved employment. Investments also moved upwards. Near it comes as good news and the decline in unemployment from 16.5% in September 2020 to 13% in September 2021. Without celebrating, it is worth saying that the number of unemployed is lower than in April 2010, while that of those in employment the highest since June 2011. However, ladies and gentlemen, these performances have been made possible mainly thanks to an unprecedented grid of measures to support households, professionals, businesses, measures which in 2021 amounted to around EUR 17 billion and totalling EUR 40 billion in 2020 - 2021. Seventy categories of measures, ladies and gentlemen, to support income, employment, liquidity with direct and indirect financial aid, suspension of payment obligations and lending. That was and is the basis for the dynamic relaunch of the economy. And I'm saying it's because some of them will continue in 2022. The extension of the "GEYRA" programme to grant household loans, the reduction of the amount reimbursed to all repayable advances, the extension of the exemption from the special solidarity levy, the extension of the reduced VAT rates to a number of services and products, the extension of the "CONTRIBU" programme to cover salaries and contributions, as well as the addition of fifty thousand new posts to the programme and a hundred thousand new jobs is something that has detonated our economy. But it is not only the pandemic we are faced with, it is also the imported energy crisis. We want to support the available income, which is tested by the price rises in oil, gas and electricity with a subsidy for all electricity accounts in the low trend for the first 300 kilowatts, with the opening of income and assets criteria, for the heating allowance to cover over one million households and with increased amounts, from 36% for households without a child, up to 68% for third families, with the suspension of network charges, for all domestic consumers of natural gas and the suspension of charges for services of general interest in agricultural and industrial tariffs for five months. At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, we are taking care, with exceptional financial support, of those who are most tested, of households with very low incomes, of the low pensioners, of people with disabilities and of restoring years' injustices, providing, for the first time, for a decent, minimum allowance for uninsured over-ages, for our relatives from Northern Epirus, who have been deprived of them until now. But that is not all - let me say - fire-fighting and relief measures. There are various interventions which create more opportunities for the new generation, incentives for businesses, to become more productive and more competitive, to invest and to create more jobs to protect the income of households and farmers. It is the 'First Union' programme to tackle youth unemployment of up to twenty-nine years. It is the abolition of the tax, for parental benefits and donations up to 800,000 euros, for relatives first grade. It is the deduction from the taxable income of natural persons, 30% of costs incurred electronically, through payment, for amounts of up to EUR 5,000 per year. Furthermore, the refund of excise duty on diesel, to young farmers and farmers - members of cooperatives, as well as the reduction of VAT from 13% to 6% in feed for animal production. There is still a reduction in taxation on legal persons as well, and incentives are being provided to combine medium, small and micro-enterprises, which are essential, to take up the opportunities of the next day. These interventions add their share to the upward trend in our economy in 2022. This will make a decisive contribution to the implementation of actions with resources from the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which alone, without the leverage of bank funding, will strengthen GDP by around 3%. It will also contribute to the even more dynamic recovery of tourism and the smoother functioning of the market. In short, ladies and gentlemen, 2022 is the year in which our economy is finally surpassing the great test of the last two years. We are optimistic, but we are not triumphant, because we are aware of how things can affect possible developments on the faces of pandemic, inflationary pressures, migration, climate change. The data we have in our hands, however, give us many reasons to hope that the difficult things are now behind us. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u41	Good! And the second cycle with Mr. Booba is completed by the Greek Solution. We begin the third cycle with the following colleagues: Mrs Olga Kefefaliannis, Mr Dionyssi Kalamatianos, Mr Dimitris Kouvella, Mr Georgios Fragidis and Mr Ioannis Antoniadis, the first five, i.e. Here, Mr. Booba, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u42	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the time has come again to see the budget for what is coming. According to economists, it is the budget that designs, depending on cash resources, to see what will be the next day. But in business too, there is a budget. What is considered the most successful business? It is the one that, based on cash assets, how she will manage them, how she will distribute them and how she will exploit them, does not forget her staff. In other words, it does not forget the use of human resources. If a private company does this to its members - there were also companies that gave extra bonuses financially, when they had a positive mark on the budget - it will be a business where its executives will love it and be an integral part of the puzzle. So the same thing must be done by a state. A state must invest in a budget which will have a fair share of vulnerable groups. If it does not support vulnerable social groups, it will not be a fair budget. It will be what we say 'the law and nothing else'. So it should not be the legitimate interest of the mighty, but it must be the impossible. So if one, who belongs to vulnerable social groups, see a budget, which is to his advantage, will be a state academic cell that will love the state in general. So now I want to refer to the rural part. Investments are being made in this, notorious, 'Green Deal' or 'Farm To Fork', as Europe says, to invest in agriculture, to invest in the agri-food sector. Should we not, then, create a special code for young farmers? They are the ones who will enter the smart, digitalised ones, we would say, agriculture, to meet the demands of the future. The programme that will run until 2027 concerns agri-food. So the European Union will invest in the primary sector. It is good what the Ministry of Rural Development says, that it will make use of EUR 19.6 billion, as far as - please - agri-food is concerned. Sounds good! From there on, however, you must create a base with the budget to invest in agriculture, because - we also have a doctor in the House - 'prevent' is always better than 'treatment'. We cannot today, gentlemen, have a special code for agricultural oil. It is also Mrs Arabatzi, who is here, who is well aware of agricultural issues and in an interview, that you said, Mrs Arabatzi, that "Tripoli will be the old Samarina for the development of the livestock sector". That is correct, but you cannot say today that I will give the EUR 50 million to two hundred thousand young farmers, which the Ministry of Finance says, but only to the members of the cooperatives or to the already twenty-five thousand young farmers. So we have a population, according to statistics, consisting of five hundred seventy-eight thousand farmers. The rest of the non-cooperative members won't get a farm oil subsidy? But, furthermore, a special code had to be created for agricultural oil. It was also necessary, on the basis of budgetary data, to avoid organic farming paying for the ISO certification of a product, to have a specific code for organic livestock. Because what does the European Union say? What dawns in the primary sector will invest in soil, air management. So, in climate change, we will have to create quality products. So we need to bring 'know how' and new technologies. We must, however, help the young farmer, with a special code, organic livestock and agricultural oil. Special codes. The farmer will not wait every year to get a subsidy for agricultural oil when red duty-free oil in the ports - we will open another conversation - somewhere else goes. I would like to say, therefore, that it must have the foundations of a budget, which - and above all the three kinds of budget - cannot be financial, it must be an operating budget or a deficit. There has to be balance at first, to see if it can be surplus. So let's go now there are inflationary tendencies. You say that unemployment will fall from 15.3% to 14.8%, with the ultimate aim, after two years, of going to 13.7%. But be careful. As we say in the Greek Solution - and the economist, Mr. Villardos and the President, Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos - this is related to the employment rate, namely, there is so-called skin unemployment. Who's that? It is considered as a worker today, gentlemen, a person working four hours 'part time', an elastic hour per week. This reduces the unemployment rate. Let us see, however, what real market unemployment is and what the real working hours are and what the real wages of the workers are. All this, therefore, needs to be considered, because society sends out its own messages. In a short time, in order to speak the language of truth, we have to have a special debate to see what the adjustment clause is today on PPC tariffs that are coming and on the farmers, and it is a great deal of money, to tell them that the adjustment clause is calculated on the basis of the electricity generation mix. It has replaced this carbon dioxide charisma, with an ultimate aim and a message 'polluter pays'. Yeah, but where does that move? Look at politics around the current, tell the truth in the world, because soon the world and especially the farmer will not say "how much current I have come", but it will say "how much clause has come to me". We're talking about a great deal of money. PPC therefore launches a programme as a public former national provider to give a firm policy for a two-year adjustment clause to avoid moving to the consumer. But come on, when private providers arrived at RAE and could not do so with contracts after December 2nd. It cannot, of course, help the average consumer, because - be careful now where injustice is - those companies that are highly inclined, i.e. the so-called heavy industry, will have a 2% discount. Who's gonna pay her? Households and small and medium-sized enterprises with a low voltage of up to 3%. What's going on now? The electricity transmission network in cooperation with RAE has increased electricity tariffs. That is where we want the state through a budget, because this subsidy you are evangelizing, the 3 minutes for the first 300 kilowatts, is not enough. In essence, it is EUR 9 to help with a power consumption. I mean something, well, because history shows us the way. Because we're in pandemic history too, I'll say that in 1928 we had the laceration fever. The House is closed. Eleftherios Venizelos, who was hospitalized in “Evangelism”, calls then Minister of Doxiadis and Sabbathian and what does he do? Gives 10 million drachmas to local government, 200,000 drachmas to nursing staff - which the government has not done, now puts it in the budget by half - and 15 million more where it gives them? It gives it to the socially vulnerable groups so that we don't have a social explosion, because since H1N1 of 18 we were fired from smokers. It is not possible today, gentlemen, to speak of vulnerable groups, to have filled Greece with structures and not to have a true record of how many homeless Greeks there are in Greece. At one time PASOK had launched a Youth Fund according to Norwegian standards. Why do you not create a Youth Fund to give guarantees and incentives?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Booba, look at the watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u44	I shall conclude, Mr President. Because we are talking about Brain Drain and all these Anglo-Saxon, I will say what the Acquisition said, a stoic philosopher: "The direct one is not given, so neither the law nor the law." That's what he says. The straight line doesn't need to be caravan, just as justice does not need. We want a budget of law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u45	Mrs Olga Kefaliannis, Member of the National Council of the Republic of Athens, is called in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u46	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is the second budget drawn up and discussed in the middle of a pandemic, in an environment of instability and uncertainty, in conditions of global and multiple challenges, such as current inflationary pressures. On this unprecedented and difficult path that we are going through, the growth rate for 2021 is significantly revised upwards, which in practice means that this year the economy has covered most of the losses from the recession that preceded the pandemic. These positive performances of the Greek economy are, as it is reasonable, reflected in the budget for the financial year 2022, where the country's position on the European Economic Charter is redefined, of course, if the official figures of the European Union and ELSTAT are also taken into account. Above all, however, the effectiveness of government policy is being confirmed. This year's budget marks the effort to return the economy to normal conditions, but also its transition to a model of competitive, extroversion and 'green'. Ladies and gentlemen, the growth rate for 2021 is estimated at about 7% and for 2022 at 4.5%, while the European Commission this year has the third highest growth in the Eurozone. The Greek economy will present cumulative growth of 11.7% for the years 2021 and 2022 and this is of particular value, especially in view of the fact that Greek tourism did not bring about the pandemic of what we would expect under normal conditions. Nevertheless, in 2022 we will be able to fully recover the losses of 2020 and even exceed the domestic product of 2019 by almost 2 percentage points. At the same time, there was a fall in unemployment from ELSTAT by 3.5 percentage points. When? From September 2020 to September 2021, that is to say, in the midst of the serious consequences of the pandemic, they have found a place on the labour market for over a hundred thousand fellow citizens, while further employment growth is expected in 2022. Under no circumstances can we, of course, celebrate. The difficulties are many and some wounds are still open, but the state has certainly stood by businesses and households with support measures of over EUR 43 billion. It should continue efforts, in particular to promote liquidity support policies and potential borrowers. The same must, of course, be done by financial institutions to make a greater contribution to the implementation of investment projects and to the real economy. Of course, we can be optimistic about realistic data and yet we are entitled to continue to believe and apply the policy of results, this policy that is expected to bring about a 3.3% increase in private consumption in 2021 and an additional 3% increase in 2022, an increase in real investment in 2021 and 21.9% in 2022, an increase in exports, a large proportion of tourism revenues and a reduction in GDP debt. Ladies and gentlemen, this policy of results is the response to the unadulterated opposition of SYRIZA, which awkwardly lies in saying that we are reducing health expenditure in the budget of 2022, when it is deliberately practicing its calculations that EUR 5 billion of the EUR 257 million have also been provided for in order to be disbursed according to the health course of the pandemic. There's no other way left, ladies and gentlemen of Officer Opposition, than falsification of truth, because your devastation has never been confirmed. You were talking about falling growth and there was a spectacular increase. You were talking about new tax measures and instead of them in 2022 it brings an increase in the minimum wage, additional tax reliefs and a reduction in HISPIA, and all of this combined with the funds to be used by the Recovery and Stability Fund, as well as by the Greek NSRP 2021-2027, which is the first approved by the Commission and which is why they deserve congratulations to the State Secretary responsible, Mr Giannis Tsakiris. The Greek Government has already submitted in October sectoral programmes with the priority of the support programme for small and medium-sized enterprises, competitiveness and innovation, and are expected to be activated in the first few months of the new year. These are extremely important resources that will have multiplier benefits in the real economy in the coming years. So in this opposition that sustains populism and as a government it imposed twenty-nine new taxes, twenty reductions in pensions and increases in contributions, we will continue to respond seriously and to work for the benefit of the many. Ladies and gentlemen, with the expectations of course to overcome the pandemic, with the continuation of the vaccination programme in order to limit its impact, sustainable growth and economic competitiveness can become a reality, a reality which certainly gives rise to new challenges for the Greek Government, which in 2019 was elected by a clear command, to lead the country on the path of development, to a sustainable, modern, socially rewarding economy, a growth that will bring wealth in favour of many, improved public goods, better health, better education, better welfare. This is the bet from now on to justify the expectations of all those who trusted us in the summer of 2019 and of all Greek citizens. I therefore urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the budget for the financial year 2022. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u47	Mr Dionysios Kalamatianos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u48	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is the third budget tabled by your Government and you really do not stop astonishing us negatively. This is a budget that widens inequalities and a budget that denies reality, a budget that denies that, in 2022, pandemic will be present, a budget which denies that the accuracy of tyranny millions of Greeks. We really find that he's out of place and time. When the country records one sad record after another - we lamented hundred and thirty fellow people who lost their lives yesterday - when the country is at the top of the deaths per million people in Western Europe, when your forecasts for the end of the pandemic are constantly disproved, what are you doing? You're filing a budget like there's no pandemic. The announcement from Mr. Lytra, the epidemiologist, what did he say to us yesterday? That, as early as May, he has informed a higher level that there is a study that demonstrates that death outside intensive care units is too high, at 87%, and indeed that a 38% of these deaths could have been avoided if the public health system had been strengthened. He came here to this Step, the Prime Minister, fourteen days ago, and said that there is no study, it is not in any way proving that death outside the ICM is increasing. You're obviously mocking the Greek people. But you also submit a budget that refuses to be accurate. Precision in raw materials, energy, feed, farmland, services, that there is no accuracy that crushes Greek society, which crushes households, crushes small and medium-sized enterprises, focusing and retailing. One would expect that in these circumstances you would do the self-evident thing, you would substantially strengthen the public health system. Oh, no. What did you do? You say that there will be no pandemic of time and you will reduce by EUR 600 million the costs for the pandemic and reduce the costs for public hospitals by EUR 220 million, a total of EUR 820 million. But - and we wonder - is it possible, in these circumstances, to make such provision, to deposit such a budget? So if there wasn't a pandemic, what would you do? Would you zero the costs of public hospitals? Maybe that's your target too, that's your dream. For the situation of hospitals, I invite you to come to my home country, my place, to Elia. There - one clue I'll tell you - they've left within a year and a half sixteen doctors and no one has come. Tragic situation. Healthy, doctors, nurses are trying with superhuman efforts to keep the system up, but you've left them alone. And that's not all. With the budget you choose to hit the welfare state, EUR 1.7 billion less spending on the welfare state and support for the unemployed. In such difficult circumstances, then, in the context of these difficult conditions that the financial consequences of pandemic leave their tentacles everywhere, you dare to avoid state welfare. We are now going to support the real economy. What do we see there? Withdraw the billions, the inadequate measures you had the previous year to support the market. And what do you say? That the market is functioning properly. But well, have you taken a walk to the market, a walk to the business, a walk to a shop, go to a shop and ask the professional if he's got a client in here today to shop and if he's got a payday? And consider what has to be done when you ask back the repayable advances and when the suspensions are lifted to obligations and debts. Do you really think that time doesn't need support, too, small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to be able to survive? And while accuracy is hilarious, wages stay on their feet. Aren't you really the ones who have been election-on-electioning that the increase in the minimum wage will be twice as high as the growth of GDP? Now what? 2% increase? 50 minutes a day? Do you think that this really strengthens the income of workers? But you're lying too. You argued that there is no improvement in the economic conditions for workers in any country. It appears that in almost all European Union countries there has been an increase in wages. And why are they doing this? For the self-evident reason, to strengthen the income of workers, to be able to cope. You deny it. When reality does not suit you, you are trying to create another picture to reverse the situation. And while you do all this, you show special care for extra tax revenues, EUR 3.5 billion extra revenues. What taxes? From the indirect taxes, which mainly affect workers and small and medium-sized incomes. And the question is specific: Can the purified social majority cope with such taxation within such a wave of precision? Can it cope with reducing the income available? Can it cope with the debts that knock the door? Can he handle the padlocks that are before the gates if they haven't already come? The truth is, we didn't expect anything better than you. We did not expect anything better than a government that has failed to effectively support small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. We expected nothing better than a government that refuses to regulate pandemic debt. We have waited for nothing better than a government that refuses the fair redirection of the Recovery Fund, which denies the substantial increase in the minimum wage, which refuses to reduce excise duty on fuel. We were expecting nothing better than a government that undermined the eighth and collective agreements, which brought unpaid and cheap overtime, which abolished the thirteenth pension - the permanent thirteenth pension which you, too, had voted for and which substantially converts the insured to investors by privatising subsidiary insurance - which also introduced the new bankruptcy law, which actually takes all the property of the debtors, even the first residence and depriving the residence of small and medium-sized incomes and households. Of course, this is not the case for the offices of the Ministers. That is where we see there is an increase in the funds for the offices of the Ministers and for the posters, as is the case with the budget of the Ministry of Civil Protection. In conclusion, this is a budget which has nothing to do with reality. It is an upbringing budget that brings a virtual reality. At the same time, it is against the interests of the large social majority. But the Greek people have understood what you are pursuing, they understand who you are, and they will answer you soon. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u49	Mr Dimitrios Kouvelas, MP of Thessaloniki, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u50	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, the year that leaves strong marks in no doubt. It affected us all. The unprecedented health crisis has hit our economy and society. It is true that there is uncertainty as to the end of the pandemic and as an MEP, I am telling you that hospitals in our city are currently on the verge but are on the verge of it. I would like to take this opportunity to thank publicly once again all the health staff of the city for the difficult struggle it gives. We owe them a lot, and I'm sure at the end we'll all win. So we have reached the top perhaps parliamentary procedure within the year of the state budget debate, where good news arises. The 2022 budget has three basic features. It is a budget of substance in terms of numbers, optimism in the future and pragmatism at the moment. Mostly, however, it seals a mix of different policy for the country, with fewer charges and more investments, less taxes and more good jobs, less uncertainty and more development perspective. A mixture which started to apply two and a half years ago and continues to end up as the compass for Greece of 2030. Besides, a budget other than figures and forecasts is above all planning. A real road map, which at this stage marks structural changes in the post-COVID era. We are indeed discussing the third budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, but under two new, undeniable circumstances. Firstly, we are in the middle of the greatest economic and health crisis that Europe has experienced since the Second World War and, secondly, of making use of funds of EUR 32 billion from the Recovery Fund, which our country has secured since the negotiation and success of the Prime Minister at the Summits. The government on the first day of the pandemic has made difficult decisions with two objectives: on the one hand, to safeguard public health and, on the other, to support and rescue our economy. At a time when other economies went down to the recession, other advanced health systems collapsed, Greece comes out in the clearing by recovering its powers. Today's debate is taking place in the context of two more difficult equations, which we have to resolve as a matter of urgency. It's the inflation, which makes its appearance, and the accuracy, showing her teeth. But the government in time has diagnosed the problem and has taken targeted measures to relieve households, which are provided for in the budget that we are discussing. This is how we increase the State subsidy in electricity consumption and gas supply accounts by EUR 30 per megawatt by a sum that will ultimately exceed EUR 150 million. We are strengthening the heating allowance by extending the income criteria. We continue the brave and stable reduction of taxes on households and businesses. Unlike some others - I think we all understand who - will remain the government of twenty reductions in pensions, twenty-nine new taxes and the increase in the contributions of the free professionals, who have broken the middle class and the most dynamic and active part of the Greek economy. Fortunately Greek taxpayers are well aware of the days of SYRIZA government and are able to compare clearing notes and clearing notes of ENVIA. As the definition of denial and misery, you will stay, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, constantly talking about reducing growth, while we have a spectacular increase in new tax measures, and the government's new brave tax policy with continuous reductions in taxes is described every day. You were talking about increasing unemployment, but we've got a lot of divergence. The three years 2020 - 2022 is characterised by the cost of our interventions that have reached the amount of mammoth, a record of the history of the Greek economy of 43 billion euros, through sixty-two categories of measures to support businesses, professionals, households and the unemployed as a whole. Thessaloniki has already been supported with soundness and planning by hundreds of catering, tourism, hotel businesses, as well as free professionals, merchants and workers. We have succeeded in not losing a single job so far. In September 2019, unemployment in our country was 17%. The forecast for 2022 gives us 12.2%. In other words, we will have an improvement of five units within three and a half years of New Democracy. I put the next year in my report. However, the government does not celebrate. For us, even one unemployed person to stay in the country must do anything to find a job. Moreover, the four most important indicators have improved that shape the dynamics of our economy. Private consumption, how much they spend, that is, businesses and households. The actual investments, which are also projected to increase by 22 points in 2022. Third indicator, public consumption. There is also provision for an increased 3 points for 2022. Fourthly, and equally importantly, exports. An area in which our country did not have a significant record in previous years was less than it was, but we have an increase of 28% for 2021 and an additional 21% for 2022 is anticipated. Moreover, deposits increased by 28 billion euros, not only by businesses, but also by households. Let us not forget that the economy is always our government's priority, but since March 2020, conscious and unnegotiable choice of Prime Minister and Government was to promote the protection of the lives and health of citizens. I would ask for a minute's tolerance, Mr President. So for health we had 4 billion in 2019. There are more than five and a half billion for 2022 in the ordinary budget. Here one wonders how much longer you will continue to lie or, in any case, insist that you do not read the budget correctly. The Prime Minister has already announced a large amount, close to 90 million, which will be allocated these days to a hundred thousand health and personnel of the EPC. I call on the relevant ministers to exhaust all margins and to give this aid, this aid to even a thousand nurses from the welfare centres throughout the country and eight hundred workers in the health regions who had received this benefit in the previous period and are doing a similar duty to their colleagues in hospitals. At the same time, the budget makes no discounts on the non-negotiable choice of the Mitsotakis Government for social solidarity and support for our vulnerable fellow citizens. We are making our Greece again strong and secure. With the important agreements that we have anticipated and achieved, we will have increased costs of EUR 800 million in national defence. In particular, we call on you to vote in favour of this budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u51	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u52	I'm hanging up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u53	Please, with a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u54	The 4th new generation technology park “Thess INTEC” goes on in Thessaloniki. The ‘CISCO’ and ‘PFIZER’ colosses have already installed high-tech and innovation operational centres. "DELOITTE" offered more than five hundred new posts well paid to young scientists. And we're going on. The vote on the budget of 2022 shall have the form of a vote of confidence in the government. This will take place on Saturday in the House. The most important thing, however, is the vote of confidence which the great majority of Greek citizens give to the government and Mr Mitsotakis every day. I urge you all to join in by voting in favour of the 2022 budget. Thank you very much for your tolerance, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u55	Ladies and gentlemen, I understand that you all want to conclude a speech you have written or something you want to say, but because there have been two hundred three, and - as Mr Athanasios said this morning - if you add both the Ministers and the Parliamentary Representatives and the others, there are too many speakers, so it is important that we keep time together, grosso modo. I won't interrupt anyone if he's been over seven minutes. Now Mr Frangidis has the floor and Mr Antoniadis follows from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are making every day more of the fact that we are living in a time of multiple crises and multiple challenges. The multiannual economic crisis was followed by the health crisis, with the coronary pandemic, which, however, again fed the economy. We are experiencing intense climate change with dramatic consequences throughout the planet, lack of water and desertification of areas, food and migration crisis. The 2022 budget has to face threats that may work as slow-track bombs on its foundation, first with pandemic. The pandemic is a chapter that remains open. The emergence of the new "Omicon" mutation undermines the recovery that occurred in the previous period in the economy and demonstrates the unstable environment. Epidemiological data is burdened and experts are talking about Christmas with high numbers - as we have unfortunately seen yesterday - in tuberculosis and deaths. Unfortunately, the vaccination programme, with the responsibility of the government, is considerably less than that of other European countries. The health system is under pressure, especially in regional hospitals. The Kilkis Hospital, for example, lifts a disproportionate weight, being a hospital with clinical COVID, without having an intensive treatment unit. And I have to say it's the only hospital in the 4th U.S. that doesn't have an IF. A lot of promises have been made over the last two years, but a result of zero. For inflation: EUROSTAT recently announced that the annual euro area inflation amounted to 4.9% in November, with a record of 4.1% as early as last month. To a large extent this was the result of the huge increase in energy costs. The values of oil, electricity and natural gas shall continue to erase an upward orbit and shall not be visible in the horizon signs of stabilisation. Only a few hours after the German Foreign Minister's statement on Monday, 13 December that the Russian pipeline "NORD STREAM 2" cannot be allowed in its existing form because it is not in line with European Union law, European natural gas contracts increased 10%. The increase in energy costs is conducive to the prices of food and other commodities, affecting households, who see their purchasing power shrinking, while the standard of living of employees, and especially lower paid, is dramatically degraded. The monthly cost of living of the citizen from summer to today has increased by 18% to 20%, which means that every citizen needs 50 euros a month more to live. Unfortunately, VAT on primary products remains at 13% and at 24% and we are not exampled by the Scandinavian countries, France, Spain, who have lowered VAT to 5% on basic products. The accuracy is great, but the government remains inert. It merely gives rise to international developments and does not take measures to reduce the impact, such as lowering VAT on basic goods and reducing excise duties. It does not, of course, take any steps to control the shameful gain. Improving the economic sizes described in the draft budget has no impact on the citizens, who see their purchasing power falling. I would even say that it is one of the times that the numbers prosper, but not the people, or, more or less, the right ones, prosper very few people. Ministers, at the committee meeting you said that in contrast to last year's budget, which focused on the effective management of pandemic - how true this is - this year's budget marks overcoming the health crisis and records the transition from the strong recovery of 2021 to the high and sustainable growth of 2022. I will tell you that the economy may not be closed again because of pandemic - and that is something positive - but your budget can be overturned by the threats I have mentioned and again become management. GDP is expected to increase by 4.5%, i.e. at the end of next year it will be 1.7 higher than that of 2019. Tourism is expected to cover 80% with 85% of 2019 revenues, with revenues reaching 15,000,000 to 16,000,000 euros, playing an important role in economic development. The course of pandemic, however, is naturally affecting tourist mobility. The new mutation, the uncertainty surrounding travel rules and the stricter regulation of measures and restrictions has reintroduced a change in attitude of consumers, making them more conservative and more sceptical on travel. In Britain, which is a basic tourist market for us, only 24% of travellers plan to book holidays abroad in the next 12 months, while 85% of the respondents said they would not travel off the border on Christmas. Tourism has to deal with both the plating of precision in energy and goods. Even if tourism is increasing, this does not imply profitability for businesses, as tourist operators are pushing for low prices, while increasing energy costs raise business operating costs. Businesses therefore need support, since 2021 is characterised as a survival year for many of them who resort to lending to continue their operation. Many 12-month hotels, not operating, have recorded dramatic losses for eighteen months. In 2022, therefore, it is necessary to change the tourist model, to focus on sustainable tourism, the digital transition, to carry out infrastructure projects, such as the renovation of facilities at border stations, ports, the road network. Have you, uh, drawn up a plan for all this? In conclusion, I would like to stress that the Greek province needs support. My region, Kilkis, particularly in rural areas, is facing serious issues such as the increase in oil prices and the retrospective increase in electricity prices. I will give you an example: a farmer has taken an account of EUR 1.223 on the current, of a consumption of EUR 344, but a adjustment clause of EUR 941. Soya pays it 510 euros tone, corn 0,30 euros, clover 0,25 euros, but milk sells it 0,40 euros. How will he cope with these needs? We've got a triple of fertilisers. Failed management by the government of grazing matters has led farmers and farmers to despair. For all this, what is your answer and your plan to deal with, Ministers? In conclusion, I would like to say that we are voting against the budget. But we are voting for that of the Ministry of Defence and the Presidency. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u57	Mr Antoniadis has the floor from New Democracy and then he will make a three-minute intervention by Mr. Mylonakis from the Greek Solution. Here, Mr. Antoniadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr President. You are doing well and highlighting the issue of the time economy, because democracy is respect for the time of the next speakers, and if we do not respect it, then who? First of all, I wish many years to all the commemorators, Freedom and Freedom. We are talking today, ladies and gentlemen, in plenary, about the 2022 budget. This is a leading moment in parliamentary life, since the budget is the mirror of declarations, commitments and not just. It is the third budget of the New Democracy and the second budget that has been under the regime not only economic but also more general uncertainty because of the pandemic that has affected the whole planet for almost two years. Despite the unfavourable international economic climate, the Greek economy not only shows to stand, but also shows significant signs of recovery. All data confirm that it has entered a dynamic orbit that is expected to continue over the next few years, as all internationally valid organisations confirm. For example, they say that our country is estimated to have a two-digit increase in investment in 2021 and 2022, the second highest in Europe. It is expected to show the highest rate of increase in exports in 2021, 2022 and 2023 pan-Europeanly. With the economic policy of the New Democracy, the cumulative growth of the years 2021 and 2022 will not only bring the Gross Domestic Product to the levels before the pandemic, but will further upgrade it. The Cassandras are disproved and will be disproved once again. I would also like to stress that in the new year there is to be a further reduction in unemployment, and there is a commitment by the Prime Minister to a second double increase within 2022 of the minimum wage. All of these positive elements for our economy result in early next year for Greece to go on early repayment and the last loans we had received from the International Monetary Fund in the years of the memorandum. This is of great importance, because then the International Monetary Fund will have no say in the decisions on our economy, which will be taken for our country at European Union level. In March 2022, our country is also going to pay off some of the bilateral loans from the first memorandum to countries of the European Union in advance. The new budget also provides: The reduction in the tax on legal persons from 24% to 22%. Reimbursement of excise duty on diesel to young farmers and farmers – members of cooperative and cooperative schemes for 2022. The deduction from taxable income of natural persons of 30% of the costs incurred by electronic means of payment to specific professional sectors. The first sign concerning young people from eighteen to twenty-nine years of age, without previous work experience, will be recruited within 2022. The extension from the academic year 2021-2022 of the housing allowance and to the students of the IEK. There is also a significant increase in exports and, as the European Commission appreciates, it will be the highest pan-European for both this year and the next two years. There is already a significant increase in investment, and the European Commission estimates that for both 2021 and 2022 it will be the second highest in Europe. There is a significant reduction in unemployment. In September 2021 it was at 13% - from 16.5% in September 2020 - and it is expected to continue to deviate. The available income of Greek households in the first half of 2021 increased, according to recent data from the European Central Bank, by 7.2%. I would also like to remind you that, so far, we have made further tax and insurance reductions. We've reduced HISBIA by 22%. We have reduced the tax rate on natural persons from 22% to 9% for income of up to EUR 10,000. We have reduced the corporate tax rate from 28% to 24% and made a further reduction to 22%, which will apply from 1-1-2022. We reduced the withholding tax rate for dividends from 10% to 5%. The tax advance on natural persons engaged in business from 100% to 55% and for legal persons from 100% to 80% has been reduced. We have reduced the insurance contributions by one unit for all employees and by an additional three units for private sector employees for 2021 and 2022. We abolished the special solidarity levy for the years 2021 and 2022 in the private sector and abolished the parental benefits and donations tax for every type of asset up to EUR 800,000. Ladies and gentlemen, in the last few years, in the last bills, with the culmination of the budget, we have been observing a tension and anguish in the Qualifications. He's trying to find a push to hold and exercise a real opposition and he can't find it. He tries to proclaim anything positive, but the government is always one step ahead. Falsely, of course, it moves to proclaim everywhere that we are infallible. And we make mistakes and omissions and we apologize and we apologize and we try to correct them. But it is certain that they are mistakes of those who work very hard, of those who produce work, of reforms and of course they will also make mistakes. The people know it, they trust it, and that is why they support the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and New Democracy and now 2023 and 2027. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is a budget for growth, prosperity and progress. It gives new impetus to our economy, stabilises the confidence of international markets and European partners and is the main lever of the development of our economy for the future. It's a budget for every Greek and every Greek, and that's why I'm calling on you to support him. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr Antoniadis. After Mr. Mylonakis of the Greek Solution, who will speak for three minutes, Mrs. Augeris will be followed by SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I am not going to speak in three minutes with the intervention we are going to make for the budget. But we have to make this intervention as a Greek Solution after an event, which was recorded and recorded as a very serious event. A few days ago the Prime Minister from the Step of the House in a speech on the pandemic said: "There is no indication that the intact patients who are outside the ICM have greater mortality than those who are intensified." It is a fact that is not in dispute, it has been recorded. Today, since this morning, I think that each and every one of us have understood that the Prime Minister has lied. We do not call the Prime Minister 'false', but it is a fact which cannot be called into question. It is today's study that surfaced, but since May, ladies and gentlemen. And the Prime Minister knew, unless his advisers wouldn't let him know. It is the Tsiodra - Lytra study for COVIDs and mortality, data on tubed out of intensity. I'm serious about it. Rarely, you know, I'm going to Step to say something. However, we have discussed the parliamentary group and the President. This pandemic of the lies of the New Democracy has collapsed and, indeed, it has been stumbled. This publication of the study by Mr. Tsiodra - Theodoros Lytra recommends an absolute vindication of the Greek Solution, unfortunately. Yesterday we had a 'black' day, a 'black' Tuesday. And I'm very afraid that if we keep going at these paces and don't take steps now, even late, we'll have more than a hundred thirty, as we had yesterday, our dead compatriots. In our calls here in Parliament, first of all we and other parties, of course, talked about the need for immediate support of the ESS and the staffing of the ERM with staff, especially staff, and the related materials, of course, in order to save the lives of Greeks, and the government responded with slander and immoral characterisations. Today it has been shown that thousands of our fellow citizens and our compatriots have lost their lives because of these shortcomings, which we had occasionally denounced. The worst part of all is that the government and the Prime Minister were aware of the elements of this investigation, which I will present in the Minutes, since last May, which did not prevent them from cheating on the Greek people and on us here in Parliament, mentioning even unincreased mortality outside the ICM, while the study, ladies and gentlemen, substantiates that 87% of our deadly compatriots were out of the ICM, waiting to enter a normal ICM, permeated, however. IM ‘monitor’, i.e. without such medical personnel. And I want to say something to SYRIZA's gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u61	Not to say it, not because you tell SYRIZA's gentlemen, but because we took a lot of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u62	I shall conclude, Mr President. As for the post-Christian prophets of Officer Representation and Mr. Tsipras personally, we remind them that, when we talked about strengthening the ITH, about monoclonals, about prescribing reliable diagnostic checks, they acted as a government junk in New Democracy's repressive choices. After that, we call on the Greek Prime Minister to take full responsibility. Considering that the evil has to be stopped here and now. The Greek Solution simply tells him: If his Government cannot continue to work for the good of Greek citizens, it can go to elections.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u63	Mrs Augeris from SYRIZA has the floor for seven minutes, and then the Deputy Minister of Interior Mr Kalafatis will follow. Here you go, Mrs. Aegir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, after the speech and placement of the Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, I would like to begin my speech a little differently than I had planned, although I intended to include this very serious issue of the unveiling investigation of Mr Lytras and Mr Chiodras. From this step of the House, too many times, both the Chief of Staff and President of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Alexis Tsipras and the Parliamentary Group have asked the question and the question of intertwined patients outside the SYRIZA, the mortality of these people who are imprisoned outside the ICU, and we have urgently asked for answers to us. In fact, this has also been asked by a recent parliamentary question, but also by a timely question from the relevant Health Commissioner, Mr Xanthos. From this step by the Chief of Officer's Representation, Mr. Tsipras, asked the Prime Minister to answer what was happening with the intubations and the mortality. And from this moment on, the Prime Minister replied that it was the same thing to insulate a man outside the ICU and the same within the ICU. And he even said that there are no investigations that prove the opposite. This tragic cynical report by the Prime Minister, which he did not even correct, was very disturbed to the Greek people and the public. Yesterday, a survey carried out from September 2020 until May 2021, a survey by Mr. Lytras and Mr. Chiodra, which says what? That the mortality of non-AT is 87% and that this mortality could have been avoided, if government care had been given, that it is precisely because of these government omissions and choices. There may be two pounds here. Or Mr Mitsotakis is an uninformed Prime Minister, who ignores a very important investigation, scientists who are also members of the Scientific Committee for the Management of the Pandemic, or is a prime minister of liar and dangerous. Let the majority party choose and decide what her leader is. However, the Greek people, the majority of Greek society, cannot tolerate a false Prime Minister, who is now becoming very dangerous and therefore Mr Mitsotakis is now accountable to the Greek people, who I imagine very soon will be asked to give this verdict. I, too, address myself to the attention of Mr Mitsotakis, to this research, which is in English, as well as the relevant publications, which state this. It is Mr Lytra's comment, one of the professors who did this research, which reads: "The data show that the ESS fails to respond to the load with more than four hundred seams", notable every day we have about seven hundred impounded people and more than a hundred per day imprisoned outside the ICM. "We are losing patients who are expected to live if they were treated under other conditions." In other words, whether you survive the intubation seems to depend on where you live and in what period, what a load on the ERC happened to get sick. If this is acceptable, let each citizen judge and take any conclusions. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Lytras says these in his comment yesterday on social media. I now enter the budget debate. I imagine that under these revelations we have new data, and now we expect the Prime Minister to see what explanations he will give and, of course, how these will be presented by the press. With this in mind, the 2022 budget proves to be based on glass feet. It is based on the artificial ending image of the pandemic, as if it were finished. And we see on what terms some people want to show that it is over and as if the accuracy of it is something temporary and too temporary. This attempt of your Government, the Mitsotakis Government, to build its own reality is particularly reflected - and I described it at the beginning of my speech - in the disastrous management of the pandemic. We are still wondering now, at the expense of these revelations, if you see in the government the tens of thousands of our five hundred fellow citizens who have lost their lives so far by COVID-19 if you see human lives and not just numbers that are announced and raised every afternoon. Our country yesterday had a hundred thirty deaths from a coronary, recording its second worst day since the beginning of the pandemic. Only within the first fourteen days of December has it come to count a thousand three hundred eighteen dead. Based on the ECDC's official mortality curve, in the last seven-day index per million population, Greece appears a long way to the worst position, not only throughout Europe, but also among most of the world's countries. Sweden, which the Greek Government had at the beginning of the pandemic as an example to avoid, has announced in total the last three days three thousand hundred and sixty new cases, while deaths in the last seven days do not exceed three to four every 24 hours, while in Italy, with a population of sixty million, 12 thousand seven hundred and eighteen deaths were announced on 13 December. Unfortunately, however, in Greece for the government of Mr.Mitsotakis, your Government, it was just Tuesday and hundreds of daily deaths are normal. And it's normal, because Mr. Mitsotakis has whistled the end of the pandemic, while he whistles indifferently about the criticism and despair of society, of counterpopulation, even in the criticism he is being made by government officials. I would like to ask you, Mr President, for a moment. I will carry the following: Thirty-three deaths from a coronary to a 24-hour. Each policy is judged on the basis of the result. The conclusion? Clearly. This is not a comment from a SYRIZA or Opposition strain. This is one more, it is yesterday, the last, most recent, critical comment of the MEPs of the New Democracy, Mr Kyursu. When we talk to you about this constant crime, you avoid answering us, deceiving us and dragging us. What do you say to your MEP, ladies and gentlemen of the government? It is obvious, unfortunately, that the revelations are something very important and promote democracy, even in a post-democracy phrase, which Mr Mitsotakis introduces, these are to come before the Greek people through Parliament;' that SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance is voting against the budget and calls on the country's progressive world to go into the fight, against this dystopia and the post-democracy that Mr Mitsotakis is trying to shape, so that the 2022 budget is the last for your Government and 2023 is what he wants and the social majority can support, in order to return to the path of hope. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u65	Mr. Kalafatis, wait a minute, because Mrs. Arabatzis had asked for the floor, and then Mr. Skoplakis. Excuse me, Mr. Kalafati, but I imagine it's going to be a circle. Here, Mrs. Arabaji, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. In reply to the honourable Member, Mrs Auger, I would remind you of what your friend, Mr Philes, said, that opposition to death is not meant. You do again and again what Mr Paulakis is unfortunately doing, opposition to death and death. You will allow me, in relation to what has been inaccurately said and that the Prime Minister is, as you said, either dangerous and liar or ignorant, not to dedicate parliamentary dialogue, Mrs Ager.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u67	Chiodra said it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u68	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u69	Please, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u70	You will not tell me what I will say, Mrs Auger, neither will you nor the other democratics of SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u71	Mrs. Arabatzis, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u72	The cylindrical dilemma itself is inappropriate to me. And I mentioned it. You'll allow me to do all that inaccurate...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u73	I'm sorry, Mrs. Arabaji. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, who will take him immediately after the Minister, has asked for the floor. It makes no sense now to replace him. Mrs. Arabatzis, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u74	Mr President, I listened with great patience as I must and we all owe Mrs Augires to formulate what she said in plenary, which was, of course, totally inconsistent with the budget debate, but that does not matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u75	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u76	Please don't interrupt. So I'm coming back. I would like to make a quick reference to the relevant statement by the parliamentary representative. It is not surprising, therefore, that a political helmet, such as Mr Tsipras, is trying to bring a scientific study into his own measure, with lies, as usual, and a fragmentary invoicing of the evidence and in a vulgar and naive manner. You have not talked about the fact that the ITHs over the days of our Government and in the midst of the pandemic have doubled. You haven't spoken about the fact that thousands of sanitaries have been added to the system. And you will obviously not have a word about the fact that during your period of 2015 - 2019, when all miracles occurred - including twenty-nine taxes and twenty-nine pension reductions - we did not have a pandemic and we had ninety anticipation for IF. But that is not of interest to you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u77	(It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u78	The best weapon to deal with the pandemic is vaccination, which must find us on a stiff front. Of course, your typical SYRIZA routes throughout this period were sound-bending: On 1 December Mr. Tsipras voted against compulsory vaccination over 60 years. On December 8, he voted against the strict penalties against uninvasive parents who do not send their children to school. It's the message you send for the pandemic. On 7 September Mr Tsipras voted against the strict fines for fake vaccination certificates. On 22 July Mr Tsipras voted against the obligability of health vaccination. For all this time, with Mr. Polakis and the tolerance you display, you deliberately close your eyes and the anti-invaders and grow, as always, and sail in two boats. With regard to - and I close, Mr President - the increased mortality outside the ICM, the study you refer to and the same paragraph states that: (a) it was about a few, about 5% of the tubes, the rest were inside ICM, and (b) it may be about sorting the most severely ill patients, so it must be carefully interpreted. Mr Tsipras, of course, and you always hide the elements that do not suit the interpretation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u79	Now we understand why you're not a minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u80	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u81	Mr. Dogfish, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr President. It is particularly unpleasant when this Chamber is opposed on the basis of the evidence of the deaths of our fellow citizens or those who are in the tragic position to be intact. It would be an issue where we would ideally have a much better chance of dealing with pandemic, if we were more united as a society and as a political system. In particular now on the issue of vaccination, which is crucial to the survival of people, because when one reaches the ICM the chances are anyway - that is what the study says - it is very difficult. Some of our fellow citizens do it and many others don't make it. When the system is pressed - that's what the study says - mortality rises, and when the system is pressed and has too many insulated some stay out of the IF and some people may be more heavy and then doctors make the very difficult choice to decide who to put in the IF, depending on the age and what may happen on medical protocols, and who not. In practice, with regard to the other melancholic element, the number of deaths, Greece from the beginning of the pandemic - because this is what we measure and to look for measuring on which country is at the top of a wave is obviously unreasonable, what matters is how it has dealt with the pandemic as a whole - Greece, on the basis of the latest data, is better than Italy and Spain. Unfortunately, we have this wave of deaths and a very dangerous mutation, the Delta, and we have seven hundred fellow humans invaded. The key to the intubation is the lack of vaccination. If there was sufficient vaccination, intubated people would not be 1/3 or 1/4 of those who are now, because there would be no corresponding contagion and thousands of lives would have been saved. This lack of vaccination is due to a significant extent to the fact that there was no post-mortem unity. On the other hand, even yesterday in the House I heard a representative from the Representation speaking about the people who are calling for compulsory vaccination. I have heard the word 'grass', which we use when there is a hostile state which is pushing some unjustly and taking their money. I can assure you that we have not put anything in the budget from this 'grass'. I do not want to take a single euro from this 'grass'. I want people to be vaccinated. Do you really want it, too? If you want it, why do you always close their eyes? Why? Not everyone, but a sufficient number of you. You close your eyes in that...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u83	It's SYRIZA's fault again!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u84	I'm not saying it's the fault. I didn't even report to a party, Mrs. Pleasant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u85	You referred to Mr Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u86	I am trying to explain that the issue of vaccination is not a matter of micro-party and micro-political confrontation. The subject of pandemic wants much greater responsibility. No one infallible in this huge economic and health disaster the planet suffers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u87	Take responsibility!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u88	That is not the case, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u89	Excuse me, excuse me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u90	This is an indication of the way of confrontation. You are unfortunately much more concerned about political confrontation than about what is happening in people's real lives.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u92	He didn't say anything to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u93	Yes, but I would like the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u94	If Mr Paulakis were here, he could ask for a personal request, but you did not. Sit down, anyone who asks for staff doesn't mean he gets the floor. I think he didn't say anything. You said about an investigation. Mrs Arabaji did not question the fact that there is an investigation and that she says what you are saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u95	Mr President, let me explain for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u96	There's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u97	Here, tell us, although I think we've badly started this fabulous thing. Say, if you want, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u98	I disagree with you, but you probably didn't hear my name. I will not go into what the previous Minister said. She tried to justify the unjustified ones anyway. Mr. Spokesman, you referred to my name and made an appeal several times. Obviously you did, because I understand the difficult position you are in, to justify the unjustified, but neither by you nor by the Minister of New Democracy have we finally heard: did the Prime Minister know or did he not know of the existence of this investigation? That's the question. That's what you're calling on. And I don't mind you invoking my name several times. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u99	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u100	I just want to tell you, Mrs. Aeger, that what you said isn't personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u101	I will now see what the parliamentary representative will answer, because this is a parliamentary representative's answer. Mr. Chaakalot, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, I will invoke my long term service at the university, not to prove that I know more than you or us about health, but to share my experience. For example, students who don't know how to answer the question asked. So a student who asks him what the effect of inflation on the incomes of the poor is and will answer that we need to have liberalisation on the energy market, will not get too high. From country to country, we give them two or three points to ten. In Britain, they get zero. The question was very specific, and I understood, Mrs. Arabatzi and Mr. Dogaki, that you haven't discussed with the Prime Minister yet and you haven't taken a line. That's what I get. Because the question was very specific. The Prime Minister, whom we have all heard, said that he has not seen any study that proves that there is evidence that there is a difference in how dangerous a person is being exposed in ICUs and outside ICUs. That's what he said. You've all heard him and we've all heard him. And now the study that says that outside ICU is increasing by 87% the possibility of dying and that is an average, it says this study, because in some hospitals the rate can be much higher. This study could have been carried out by the Prime Minister since May. That was the question you had to answer. And you answered everything other than that. Didn't he know? He didn't read it? To say: "I'm sorry, it was my fault that I didn't know and I said that. I take it back.’ Did he know and he's making fun of us? That is what the Parliamentary spokesman of the Greek Solution asked you and Mrs Augeris and you answered anything other than that. You said we were playing with death. The Eye, do you remember? Do you remember when the Prime Minister said that Mr. Blondos resigned because there were forty deaths for the common flu when in France at that time there were two thousand? Leave that, 'cause I'll be out of the question too. But can you contact your Prime Minister and find out what the answer to this very simple question is? We're not playing with death. We never did and we will not do it now, but when a professor of pneumology, Mr. Lykoudis, tells us that we have more mortality than other countries, that is, in relation to the cases of how many people die, we all have to ask ourselves why and see how we deal with it. That's not what you're playing with deaths, it's that you show a anxiety about where we are and how we can deal with the problem together. Mr. Dogfish, you know what I said, what Mr. Tsipras has said, what the vaccination party has officially said. It is not your interest to continue with this, not why you do not understand. You are not interested in the work itself, which the work itself is to deal with this crisis. The micropolitical that "you are not with vaccinations and we are" very few points gives you and very much damage in our joint effort. I say both in the budget and in the issues that arise you are better prepared and know what the answer is to the question that has been asked and not to the question you want to answer. I conclude with this, Mr President: at 12 noon "In Red" Thessaloniki there is a show by Mr. Sichletides, who "travels" all and always starts with the "in absolute deadlock and panic of Koumoundourou". That's how it starts. But I think that fits you, because you don't even have the instinct to find a convincing answer and you think that in answering other questions you can cover it. I think you're in panic and absolutely deadlock. You could have a simple apology to solve it, but as Mr Stagioras says, you are more consistent, you are more honest, you are more insightful, but I am sorry you do not have it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u103	Mr. Skylakakis has the floor, and then Mr. Mylonakis immediately...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u104	All together, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u105	Leave it, because the whole story started...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u106	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u107	So Mr. Mylonakis will close it. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u108	I will read to you a news: "Three people on the island waited long for a bed in the ICU. In the end, the two didn't make it, even though one of them was transferred to ID at the last minute. In the hospital of the island there is intensified with five beds, but which do not work due to a lack of staff.’ Do you know this news when it is? It's from 19-1-2019. The complainant is Mr. Michalis Giannakos, if you've heard of him, the one who made the last...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u109	Is that what the Prime Minister told you to say? Is that the answer to the question we asked you? Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u110	Let go, Mr. Chakalote. Let's just say the truth. I understand you're disturbed by the answer. As you know, Mr. Chakalote, it's not like a dragon's teeth, throwing them and growing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u111	Here's what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u112	ICUs are preparing, Mr. Chakalote. Can't you just stop? Can you let me finish? Does the truth bother you? You're deeply disturbed by the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u113	You can complete it, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u114	The truth deeply disturbs the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u115	There is a ready area, Minister! Look at it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u116	We received five hundred sixty-six ICs somewhere there, under six hundred. We've multiplyed them. Today there are seven hundred for COVID plus the others.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u117	Another question. Will you answer the question? That's not what we're asking you. This is another conversation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u118	I will answer as I wish, Mr Chakatte. So the answer is very simple. When there is a shortage of ICUs, mortality increases. That's what this story says. When there is a large number intubated into the existing ICMs, mortality is increased. The causal relationship - to answer the student's question too - arises when the person left out - a small number left out and I hope that there will not be one left - if his case is heavier than the one who came in. If it is a heavier case, science says Mr Chiodras - no-one - we cannot put the causal link in. It's very simple. If someone is ninety-five years old and unfortunately they have chosen doctors to put a thirty-eight - because these are the real human dramas that our doctors have to deal with today - the ninety-five years old has much more chance of dying. That's what the study says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u119	That's not what he's saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u120	That's what he says. Maybe it's something else. I can't let that be anything else. I'm not fanatical in any way. But the reality is, we're looking to find anesthetics, because ICUs without anesthetics can't be done and we're putting special motives...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u121	He's on parole seven and a half thousand!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u122	There's personal. Check for COVID incidents, not non COVID!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u123	Let me finish, ma'am.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u124	Let's all calm down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u125	You can't do that. I want to say a phrase and it interrupts me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u126	Minister, please finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u127	Is it possible while I'm being interrupted? You can't do that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u128	Is that a process now?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u129	The Minister must conclude, the other Minister must not indicate the procedure. There is a Bureau. Please. I'd like to be underneath now, but that's another matter. The Minister will finish, Mr. Mylonakis will say a word, so that we can continue. We've got Mr. Kalafatis waiting patiently. Go on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u130	The anaesthetics we're looking for have left the country, most of them. We all know for what reasons. We don't have enough.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u131	SYRIZA kicked them out! It's been two years!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u132	You can't train an anaesthetic from one day to the next. It's been a year since specialization. These are real problems and, instead of shouting, let us discuss how to solve the real problems. That's what's of interest to the citizens right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u133	Mr. Mylonakis, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u134	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, Mrs Arabatzis, the Greek Solution in a serious, sober and reasonable way presented this statement, which for the Greek people is a capital. We are particularly careful, Mrs Arabatzis, and we did not call the Prime Minister a liar, but we said that she was lying before the Greek people and the Greek Parliament. What we have stressed on several occasions is that the Minister, whom I respect and appreciate, and Mr Skakakis knows well, has spoken about some people who have lost their lives. Minister, and a man to lose his life from our responsibility is a great fact and the government's responsibility has proved to be. You talked about seven hundred I.T.S.s, tubed up. They're not the ICUs and the seven hundred regular ICUs. How can we say that? That is why we have tabled a first study here by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Pneumonologist. It is not possible to believe and talk about a monkey, without specialist doctors, without medical staff, but about a campaign bed. This is all about governmental manipulation. The state, Minister, - and I am not telling you this, because you are the finances, but the Ministry of Health or the Prime Minister, who was obviously aware of the study in May, cannot have all the weapons to protect the Greek people. The vaccine, as Professor Fuchi said, is the last weapon, because that's why you keep talking. And because, Minister, you continue and do not ask for a single apology from those who have lost their lives and from the Greek people, the Greek Solution here and now calling for elections!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u135	Mr Stavros Kalafatis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u136	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, I would like to say that the misguided attacks and insulting designations on the Prime Minister's face mainly characterise those who make these designations and, of course, show the level of political controversy chosen by some of the colleagues. Also, from today's process there was really a revelation. It now seems quite clear what we have been claiming in the New Democracy for a long time, that the opposition and many MPs of the Opposition and Officerial Response are playing a double game, Mr Tsakalotos. Yes, you're sending blunt messages, Mr. Chakaloto, to your resignation. Close the eye, Mr. Chakaloto. Mr Tsipras expresses another reason for viewing it, and in fact he is meant by your esteem, such as the former Minister, Mr Paulakis. That's the reality. And if we call the last weapon the vaccine, we also close the eye on the vaccines, because the vaccine should be our first priority. Let us now come to the budget. Ladies and gentlemen, the finding is now common. Our economy has been liberated, devastated the Cassandras and is ejected like a compressed spring. This is because our country has regained the confidence of international markets, borrowed at historically low interest rates and becomes an attractive destination for new investments, because we have moved forward and continued the reforms that reduce taxes and improve the investment environment, because the state has jumped to the digital age, and it is being more bureaucratic and it is close to the citizen, because we have launched built green and digital transition policies that go through our country since tomorrow, because the government has made EUR 43 billion available to support businesses, workers and unemployed people, because we have at our disposal for the next seven years EU funds of over 70 billion euros. In the time that passed, despite the uncertainties of the pandemic, red loans were reduced and deposits of households and businesses increased and still improved the economic climate, exports increased and new investments are coming, new businesses are being developed, which are already surpassing what we had before the health crisis, new and better paid jobs are being created, the household income available is growing and all this is being certified at the growth rate, which this year is expected to exceed 7% of GDP. Ladies and gentlemen, at the same time Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government are developing targeted actions to tackle chronic problems and exploit the comparative advantages of Thessaloniki, Macedonia and Thrace. We unlock works on paper and drawers, and we promote dozens of others, which enhance the image and attractiveness of the whole region. We are developing actions that ensure a new, optimistic perspective, reposition Macedonia and Thrace on the map of Southeast Europe. Amongst the many others, a fair development plan from lignite to a new development model was drawn up for western Macedonia, with investments exceeding EUR 7 billion. At the same time, a Special Transitional Programme has already been drawn up, covering the immediate needs of the lignite regions and providing for the creation of thousands of new jobs. It was encapsulated and progressed in the construction of the northern part of E65, which will bring western Macedonia out of isolation and strengthen its course in the future. Water supply infrastructure is upgraded in western Macedonia and is moving on to Halkidiki. Significant road infrastructure projects are being carried out and a plan is being launched to upgrade land gates into the country. The rail link between Alexandroupolis and Ormene is powered. The studies were approved for Alexandroupolis' Regional Region, which will connect the port to the Egnatia Odos sector. Upgrade of the rail network to the Xanthi Axes was carried out. The region of eastern Macedonia - Thrace is moving towards the construction of a natural gas network, a liquefied gas storage station, as well as an interconnection pipeline with the national distribution system. Procedures for building judges in Kilkis and Serres through PPP were launched. Ladies and gentlemen, Thessaloniki, Macedonia and Thrace acquire infrastructure and welcome actions that bring new investments and new jobs. World Colossians such as PFIZER and CISCO are already in Thessaloniki and send a clear message from the future. At the same time, major projects were launched and progressed. The first part of the street of Thessaloniki - Polygyros was already completed. It has already built 80% of the metro line and, as we committed, the wagons will run on their tracks at the end of 2023. At the same time, important extensions are being prepared to the west of Thessaloniki and, of course, to the airport. It was strengthened and reached out of the two hundred fifty in the four hundred fifty buses, the OSH fleet, and the international competition for the market for new ones is moving forward. Gets a temporary contractor at the beginning of the time for Flyover. Improving projects in the 6th Problem and connecting the port with PATHE and Egnatia. The railway connection to the port and suburban of Western Thessaloniki was announced. The competition for the road connection of the Phiros Paediatric Hospital comes in the next few days. Bulldozers came in for the rejuvenation of the former camp "Pavlou Mela" in the Metropolitan Park of Culture and Recreation. The problem was solved by four hundred families in the area of Meteoron, Thessaloniki. It is established with coordination of the Macedonia - Thrace task force to promote the integration of the maritime coastal front. The procedures for building PAOK's field and moving Mars to new sports facilities, as well as the problem of areas belonging to the Gymnastic Association “HRAKLIS”, are progressing. Procedures for the renewal of the area of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, with a modern exhibition and conference centre and green space, and the extension of the suburban railway to the west and the construction of a Paediatric Hospital in Filio and the creation of a Holocaust Museum, with a solution given to the chronic urban problem. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Thessalonians, the Macedonians and Thraces say yes to the continuation of projects that change the image of the country, yes to the continuation of the policy that brings new investments, new businesses and new jobs, yes to policies that lead to individual propensity and collective progress, yes to the progressive policies promoted by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the government, yes to the 2022 budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u137	Thank you, Mr. Kalafatis. Good evening to you and me. Happy birthday to those who celebrate today. Mr Claus Gregoriadis, Parliamentary Representative of Mera25.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, Mr President, for the reason you give me. Thank you very much to the gentleman who cleaned up the place so that I wouldn't be offended by COVID-19. I thank all of you for making me the honour of having the patience to listen to me. So, our economy has gone upright. And since you did, it was ejected like a compressed spring, as the previous colleague said, a spring, which was ejected so badly and it was so compressed, we couldn't find it anywhere! I'm going to ask you a question, so we can finish, so that we don't play - it's a favorite phrase of my father and I like to repeat - 'the besties' in here. Since you have achieved so many brilliant results in the development of the economy, which runs like an insanity because, he's galloping, since the spiral has been launched so badly, we can't find it anymore, do you have any response handy, why do you not in any area increase government spending on next year's budget? What are you gonna do with the money? Since you made so much money for all of us, what are you gonna do with it? Why, indeed, do not increase state spending in any area at all and nobody is wondering. Every time I say that the economy sucks, it is much worse than the last fifteen years, it is my word against the speech of the previous Member or Mr. And one hears from TV and says "Okay, I'm very happy, Gregoriadis says his own," he says. Do you know what's wrong with you and we don't? The real, real life out there. Whoever's out there lives every day what you're trying to hide. And if I'm trying to uncover it, and you're trying to hide it, and if Mera25 wants to tell the truth, and you want to say another, virtual, true, then, believe me, you have an opponent and we have a science ally: the truth! And the truth is not a vague concept. It's in people's faces. People in a few words, dear and dear Members of the Complex, who are cold every night - and it is more than a million - have a sense of which the memory of those who had the luck and the honor of having it, I fear you have lost it long ago. I'm afraid you can't even feel what it's like to get cold. And they colden a million people. And I don't plunder. I'm telling you a feeling that, probably now, it's such a distant memory or not to be fed up and never, that you've deported it from your subconscious once in a while. This feeling, along with the sense of the six hundred thousand permanent unemployed, who have closed six or seven years unemployed, together with the feeling of the other one million unemployed, who are not chronic unemployed, along with the feeling of all those who do not have to pay their bills, the repayable advances, which have been returned to them in summary, 50%, other people - the previous ones - all these people who cannot make the month are my allies. They're allies of truth. They're living a truth. In any case, they know the truth of everyday friction with their lives. And their lives have been intolerable and their lives have been, for years, inhumane. You're not the only ones responsible. Their lives have been inhuman since 2009, when Greece has been on the plaster. It's the second gypsum after the porcelain gypsum, to remind me. And the link to this bill, with the budget we are discussing today, is that only on plaster is a country that cannot budget anything, because it will ultimately do what its'masters' order it, what its lenders order it. Do you know why your dear Minister - and to me dear, I love him from compassion anymore, with what has happened to him - denies that he is unable to perform his elementary role, to say: the guarantees of 23 billion for the accursed loans, for the accursed plan 'HRAKLIS', which he supposedly would face, will be registered or not registered in our public debt? Do you know why he can't answer, for three months now, asked by the Chief of the Parliamentary Group, Mr. Varoufakis? It cannot respond and at the same time prove what I am going to say, because we simply have an absolute loss of our national sovereignty. Because the Minister, as himself confided, is unable to know if they will be registered. Why? Why does not Brussels decide for itself? So we are sitting here, like the kubaras, and we are discussing a budget, between cheese and pears, which will not, as the previous one did, have not, as the previous one did, have not, as no budget has ever been in force in these downfalls, for some, memorandum years, in those years when our country's dominance has been absolved, in those years when the impoverishment and inhumanity, in the daily lives of the citizens, raises the point every day. At first it was leaping, and now we're going to do it a little bit. Is it another budget, your budget, ladies and gentlemen, Mr Mitsotakis - an anonymous company - which reveals what else? That we have a state that retires me. Do you remember the great idea of withdrawing a car that is a rotten car, and you have a reduction of between 1,000 and 2,000 euros to get the new car? This is therefore a budget for a state that is being withdrawn. And you know what I mean? I'll explain it to you right now. Do you know why they'd succeeded? Because the withdrawals had worked. PASOK brought them, and I think it's a second time. They had worked for a reason. Because capitalist sales are always an effective measure of withdrawal. It is always a good way to make fun of the consumer, to say, "I give you 200 euros, give me the 16,000 which makes a new car." But when a state is systematically withdrawing, as much as it is gradually doing, in a way, from its public obligations - which are what they are, I will tell you: it is public education, public health, it is provision for the weak, from the crew it represents, it is the HEIs, our disabled fellow people - when a state is withdrawn from all these provisions, then unfortunately we have a state, ladies and gentlemen, which is not systematically playing its part. What role is the state, Minister? Why did we make the states? We'd stay in the jungle, fight with the same powers. I have a bigger hand, a better punch, and I beat you. I jump higher, I grab a branch, and I beat you. So the states have created them, ladies and gentlemen, to protect us, to have laws and to have values and principles that are respected and to be protected and not to withdraw their protection, thus turning us into citizens who are not citizens, but are clients of parasitic oligarchs, friends and partners. If it were like this, as I told you, we were fine in the primitive situation, in which you are systematically struggling with each other, to get us back to the jungle. With fifteen years of memos, we're too close to the jungle. That is why, in the daily paper, it is observed that each of us is eating each other. All these murders, all of this violence, have social causes, have cause and misery of poverty and hope for never, namely, that no one expects, ever, ever, ever, the Monday Presence, to find work or return his child. Six hundred thousand children are in Germany or Scandinavia or I don't know where else. You have deregulationed the labour market - your budget does not say that - by turning it into iloquiums, namely slaves, workers, and those who do not know these difficult words, such as 'people'. You have tried, in vain luck, to privatize education, with a monoconon, in the recent revision of the Constitution, with Article 16. It didn't pass on to you and you started Mrs. Keramea's bills. You took homes from our indebted fellow people and you give them to 4% of their value in the predators funds. That's not what your budget says! At the same time, the Banking Code assists the business with the predators' funds, for which - I am here in passing - the Secretary-General, the Secretary-General - with forgiveness, a habit of the past - of MERA25 has been publicly rescinding the Mitsotakis family for a year and a half, saying, "You have relatives in the share composition of head funds", who are stealing the houses of the Greeks and there is no answer, no lawsuit, no attempt to remove his immunity or my immunity. So since you give 4% of the value of the Greeks' houses, which received a loan before your memorials - and he exposed them and made them mispaid, only your policy and nothing from their standpoint - so after you took them, what did you do? You did something amazing. You brought him along great - to rejoice and rejoice - your new bankruptcy code. Do you know what this code says? Tell me I'm lying. Tell me he doesn't say it. It says that it can take this house to 4% of its value, which is cheaper and the next house, I am passing away, which is a guarantee on healthy loans and, since you are cheaper at 4% of its value, you also do contaminated these loans, you destroy the banks and the banking system with this tactic. So, what does your bankruptcy code say about this wonderful house, which you get from the poor man? He says he can get it a predator fund, in which he can have relatives of Mr. Mitsotakis in his share composition. He says that I may take it, he says you may take it, Minister, he says you can take it, Mr President, anyone except one. Do you know who that is? The one he borrowed. If this is not violence, if this is not gross violence, you find me what else violence can be. Why do you exclude the patient? Why do you exclude the man who lost his house? Why can I get it in the auction? You can, but he can't. Why? He's being punished? But it's not his fault. He fell out because he had predicted without your memorials that you would cut him 35% to 55% of his salary. It's not his fault. It's your fault, but you're eating it for him. So refuse to commit, as I have told you for a year now and that the EUR 23 billion that you have guaranteed will not be cancelled in our debt, even though the Fund, the predator, with the well-known shareholder composition - I said it twice, do not say it again - and does not get his money with 4%. You gave him EUR 23 billion from the Greek people. Congratulations, good for you. All this, but in health, Mr President, in health, in health, ladies and gentlemen, in health, in the Greek people, how dare they? How dare they? How dare you in health? Truly, how dare you cut our health expenditure for two years now? How dare you do it with nineteen thousand four hundred seventy - five dead? You are reducing the budget that you have the courage to bring to our House today by EUR 800 million, in this budget you are reducing health expenditure, especially for primary health care. In other words, for the very place where the whole COVID-19 wave is confronted, where our fellow humans who are going to fight the coronary are going, you are reducing it by 50% this year from 268 to 138 million euros. Let us all remember here together that you had the nerve of reducing health expenditure by half a billion euros last year. This means, in total, that by EUR 1.3 billion you have only reduced expenditure in two years. I will not go far, Mr President. If I have to, I'll use my dentistry. I'll do it. I'll tell you right now. So, at the same time as all this - and I'm telling you now, I'm a little calm to look at you and to speak more calmly and more civilisedly - I was sitting at my house last afternoon and I was turbulating and I heard Mr. Plearis. If you don't believe it, you can hear it, in the main issue of "AND1", in Nikos Hadjikolaou, he was answering. They showed the reopening of the Mega Vaccine Center of Glyfada. Do you know what your minister said? Do you want to know what your minister said? I heard it with my ears. I wouldn't have thought he said it to the Minister, to any government, anywhere on earth, not even to a zoo Minister, I wouldn't have thought he said it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u139	Mr Gregoriadis, I am sorry to interrupt you to arrange for your speech, the seconds of the parliamentary representatives, as we have decided, will take place on Saturday. Now you can abuse my kindness, not next year.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u140	All right, Mr. President. I'll talk another couple of minutes and I'll go. Thank you very much for telling me, so that I am not exposed, and I am exposing you too. So I heard Mr. Ploris - to be pleased - saying, without reding, that he said: "Fortunately the epidemic is now entering a recession." And this was said by the Minister of the country, the minister responsible, on the day we had a hundred and thirty dead, that is, the Greek record of the dead of the country. What does that mean? What does it really mean? Where's your Minister, Mr. Plearis, saw her? Look, let me explain exactly what's going on. When you agree to make the Minister - and even at the most critical moment of all times for national health, for public health - a person who has been co-sponsored, with Mr Georgiadis and Mr Vorides, the successful triumph of molecules by Mr Karatzafair, a man whose quality, policy, is such that he can go on Sunday to the elections in Exarcha to show us his intention to clean them up, a man, in short, obviously limited overall potential, you cannot expect more than a hundred people of the dead. But when you choose this minister and at the same time reduce health funds for the second consecutive year in the middle of a coronary, almost twenty thousand dead - I recall again that last year they were reduced by half a million - then you can in no way ask for the possibility of failure or oligopoly or even - with the forgiveness - of human stupidity. There's nothing you can hide, by nothing and by anyone, your true goal, which is none other than the most privatization of public health. And I say vulgar, because it does not stop you from doing it, it does not prevent you from doing it either the pandemic or the almost twenty thousand dead or anything in this world. That's why you haven't demanded even today a single - sample - big private sanitary unit, and let them die a whole lot in the middle of our fellow citizens' common beds. That is why, unreservedly, that is, without being shined by shame, you still do not hire - and I will scream it with all my power, people listening to it - and not one, for a sample, a permanent doctor in the National Health System, for you will be left with a dowry and want to privatize it. And if it works with a lot of doctors, it doesn't make it easy to privatize. So why don't we see your budget spending anywhere increased, except for national defence? And it would be very nice if it were really a national defense. Are we kidding? What national defense? The national defense that Mr Mitsotakis, Mr. Dendias and Mr. Papadopoulos begged the Americans to let us take French fresh fruits a year and a half ago and they said "we will cut your feet"? Why? Because we're selling ours. And after a year, they broke it - I'm sorry for the market expression - to Mr. McCrone because they didn't play him in history with the submarines that Australia bought from our powers - i mean the European Union and America - they said to him: 'Don't worry, we have a client who protects him and does. Buy you 10 billion frigates and corvettes." Do you know how revealing this is? How does it turn out? Because now they've changed their minds. I don't know if you're all up to date. Now we won't get French squirts anymore. Two months ago, you said it in here, your minister. We'll get Americans. Do you know why we're gonna get Americans? Because they said: "Hey, Macron's got enough too. Now we'll get it." When, Mr President, we are talking about a country that has such a loss of national sovereignty, shame is a small word for all of us in here. All of us who are here today have the legitimacy of a farce that we are pretending to be governed by a Parliamentary Republic. He's not in command. It is run as a pretext by Mrs Merkel and henceforth by various other conferences. I'm closing in a phrase. A rift, the only realistic answer. The people know that. You'll find out, too. Ladies and gentlemen, it is really pointless to talk about a state budget or any budget from 2010 onwards. As long as we are in debt-government and hard oligarchy regime, nothing can be done except with the approval of lenders. Only the break with them and their oligarchy and their political staff, part of which you are also - and I am sorry to tell you this so raw - are the necessary and capable treaty. Mera25 doesn't make the duck. Mera25 two years now tells you what to do. We need to regain our national sovereignty in public property, now abolish the TIAD - which you did, I'm sorry to say so raw - and the gold of the state to have them handled rather than the TIADE and to come and get what they want. Tax policy with tax software and abolishing the ADI, which means every man on his bench, fiscal policy, management of red loans with full protection of the first home and abolishing the auctions. Mer25 - you all know that - for two years we've been doing positive. We do not stick to the complaint or refer to vague texts.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u141	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u142	I shall conclude, Mr President. The collapse of your government arrives with pedals, comes by scavengering and looks like you are the last to hear the scavenger. And that shows your political potential. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u143	Thank you, Mr Gregoryde. I repeat, the parliamentary representatives do not have a second. Sabbaths will be made on Saturday. I would ask that the seven-minute period be observed from the rest of us, because I see some who get away very much when I'm upstairs. Mr. Loverdos from New Democracy is called in Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u144	Ladies and gentlemen, because I speak without a manuscript, I have the power to keep the seven minute, because I am not obliged to read a note well. That's why I changed my speech. I was planning to say other things, but after the tension that was caused, I'm actually going to say other things. I honestly understand that the budget is the subject of ideological political controversy between the parties. That's perfectly logical, very normal. It is the very draft law which identifies these differences between the parties every year, which I have been following these debates in this House for years. And I think it is most of you, because I have been a parliamentary editor since 1985 and have been following the budget for over thirty five years. However, I am struck by the fact that, instead of listening to arguments, I hear descriptions. I do not like this and it is something that does not contribute to the rise of political dialogue. What can I say about designations such as 'Karazafiris' by the three ministers of government? Is that now a designation that can promote political dialogue? Also, what can I say about the "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A." the government? Okay, I understand he has a theatrical style, but he doesn't promote public dialogue. Several speakers, particularly SYRIZA, have called Mr Mitsotakis a liar. It's funny. I'm laughing because it's funny, especially in the case of Kyriakos, to call him a liar. Kyriakos, like the late father of Constantine Mitsotakis, belong to the category of policies that at political cost have said many hard and unpopular truths, which the current Prime Minister continues to say. The Greek people know better than anyone who has lied to the Greek people. But what has also made me a great impression is the fact that you do not see reality. You act as if what has happened over the last two years in Greece and the world is not happening, an unprecedented pandemic in human history, for which we have no experience. This pandemic nobody knows how to deal with it and no one can predict what will happen. Today we have had new cases of the "Omicon" mutation and Greece. In Britain, the 'Omicon' mutation is becoming the dominant one and by mid-January, it is possible to become the dominant one throughout Europe, and until ten days ago we did not even know its existence. Tomorrow there could be another mutation. We live in conditions that absolutely no man on earth can predict how they will evolve. Nobody! And in this situation of uncertainty and liquidity, the Government of Mr Mitsotakis and New Democracy managed to keep the country upright, despite of course having about twenty thousand dead so far, which is most painful. This is a scary one, a nightmare thing, because behind the numbers there are human lives hiding families, tragedies, which we are suffering every day. That is why the government is calling for us all to be vaccinated. Because the problem with regard to the ICUs, which SYRIZA is talking about at night, who left five hundred and sixty-five ICUs and we made them a thousand three hundred, is that if someone had been vaccinated, it would not be there. Our problem is that you don't have to get to the ICM, because unfortunately if someone arrives at the ICM, then the death rates given by the data are too high, they can reach 70% and 80%. Today I feel devastated by the death of George Traga, who I knew from a young child who left life at the age of seventy - two. The man could live and I wish he could live. One of the most important reasons why he left life is that while he had a very serious illness, diabetes, which is the ‘1’ underlying disease, he had not been vaccinated. So instead of taking an example of these tragedies and being vaccinated, so that we don't have to get to the ICM, we say why you don't make permanent recruitments to hospital staff, "the same, my Pantelaki, the same, my Pantellis". The Left always speaks - when it is in the Opposition, not when it is in power - of permanent recruitment to the public, as if permanent recruitment to the public is a panacea to solve the problems of the country. Today, then, the government is putting a budget ahead. And while yesterday Todore Russopoulos made a thorough suggestion through which he clarified why health expenditure is not reduced, the left - which I heard from all the speakers - insists that health expenditure is reduced. What do we do now? You don't even know how to read the facts. What can I say? So there, where we should be responsible and welcome this budget that came into such a great deal of uncertainty and liquidity, we insist - the opposition, I mean - on misery, malnutrition and designations against the Prime Minister and against the ministers, because you have nothing else to say. Because I spend every day in my region - and I represent the worst of the New Democracy, West Athens - and because I walk every day and this morning I was in Aegaleo for hours, I have to tell you that what the citizens who stop me on the road are one thing: fortunately, we have a government in Kyriakos and New Democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr. Loverdos. And now, Mrs Theophiste Perkas from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance is called on in Step and Mr. Lazarides from New Democracy is being prepared. Here, Mrs. Perka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will tell you one thing. Until when do you think the people will be able to listen to you for your successes? Success in pandemic, success in economic indicators, success in investment, success in education, success in order and security, success in the management of fires. Not one mistake or one apology! First of all! Hybris! You are literally following the model of liberalism, which has failed both as an economic theory and as a political doctrine. You're setting up an autocratic governance model, with the promise that we'll all live better. Let's see, though, who: do the small and medium-sized enterprises, who have to repay the pandemic's debts and have no access to any funding, at the same time, of course, that big companies also have a Recovery Fund and banks and save 183 million from taxes by reducing the tax rate on profits from 24% to 22%? Do you think the middle class is relieved, because it will be able to pass on to children the legacy of 800,000 euros or 1.6 million euros? Is that it? The workers? Are these happy people and those who live well with the abolition of all their rights, such as eight hours, with redundancies, unpaid overtime and a reduction in real income? What do they actually gain from increased productivity? In addition, civil servants and pensioners have no tax relief and no exemption, nor even the temporary abolition of the special solidarity contribution. Moreover, farmers are burdened with irrigation accounts, because of the rise in electricity prices - let me not analyse it again - and because of the accuracy of agricultural supplies. All this threatens their viability. Do young people live better? Data and authoritarianism! Listen, ladies and gentlemen, once a theory is not based, it is not really as refined and refined as its presentation is, however well known, as its creator leads to the wrong conclusions and, in our case, to tragic results. So you decided that pandemic was over and that accuracy is not a temporary phenomenon. This means that, with these assumptions, you have presented this budget to us in a pandemic context that our country records the worst negative indicators, not to mention specifically. Also, the reduction of health expenditure cannot be hidden. What can we do? And it's unacceptable. It is 820 million, 360 of which concern primary care and hospitals. It happened a while ago about this study by Mr Chiodra and Mr Lytra. The question is mistaken and has not been answered. I'm going to remember Proust again, because you answer like all the people who, when they know they're to blame for something, pretend they think they're asking them something else. Answer me! Unjust growth has never been better described than in this budget and the Government's obsession with the dissolution of the social state has never been so clear. With a precarious prediction of relaunching economic activity, you are bragging what protects and relieves citizens. You remove EUR 12.3 billion from the real economy for these - insufficient - support measures. As far as the measures are concerned, you get these from the Energy Transfer Fund. They are amounts that will be missing from saving projects, climate adaptation projects, RES projects and, above all, a permanent reduction in energy poverty. However, the government's false environmental profile has never been proved so clear. Of course, we have had many bills lately in this regard. We've been through very thoroughly. Listen a little. The green transition is a very profound transformation. It requires design, resources, tools for participation and vision. It also runs horizontally all policies. Where is he in this budget that has no design? We analysed them in the recent degree bill. Zero! Two and a half years after the announcement, the model of governance has now been discussed with society, as has local government, outside the European Union's toolbox. It all depends on the invisible hand of the market, this invisible hand that has managed to accumulate half the world's wealth in 1% of people. However, since we are talking about budgets, I shall speak a little bit about the figures. The Prime Minister tells us about 5, 6, 7 billion. Now it has reached 7.5 billion euros. It's for free! We in the budget continue to see the 1.6 billion in the Fair Development Goal programme. Even the resources you could triple from the NRP and the CEC, you have not done so. Of course, there is no increase in the ordinary budget and the national part of the EDP. I heard Mr Papathanassis, the Minister responsible this morning. He talked about the transitional programme for support for lignite regions for a fair transition. You know, this transitional programme was called the 2020 – 2023 Transitional Programme now I imagine we are talking about 2022 and 2023. It's been a year. In 2023 they close units and you've done absolutely nothing. Also, this program that you are just starting to mobilise - listen - is resources secured by the SYRIZA Government at the first National Fair Transfer Fund and two and a half years you have had them 'frozen'. It is worth wondering how the government's ambitious objectives will be met with 105 million for coalmining, degreasing, RES projects, the promotion of natural gas, all of this. That's the state budget. There is no mention of any reference to energy communities that can benefit the public-private areas, OTAs, despite announcements of institutional and financial support. There are also 500 million from the Recovery and Resilience Fund, which you do not even tell us what purpose. Is it soil restoration? We didn't see it, but it doesn't matter. You forecast 2.6 billion from the Recovery Fund in 2021, the medium-term you do 1,600 000, and now you are forecasting for 2021 600 million, when we all know that you will not get 150 million from the Recovery Fund. It's over in 2021! Mr President, I'm gonna need one more minute. And the performance budget refers again to a fair transition. He says, "He says," he says. However, it has no reference to the indicators of performance measurement. You're doing great, because you're getting zero. It's not counting. There's nothing. Otherwise, there's a 2021 "EXOCONOMO" that you need to rename "EXOCOCONOMO" of 2022, because we inform you that it's over in 2021. With this and due to inertia and accuracy, because all construction materials have been uploaded, they throw away all the poor households that do not have access to funding. And, of course, the "ELECTRA" programme for the public buildings that we prepared it is two and a half years frozen. Nothing has happened at all. Electrokinesis is a short joke. With regard to buses, first of all with SYRIZA's competition, we're still waiting for a new one. This famous 'Electricity Program' informs you that it relates to 6% of cabs and bicycles. I'll say one last thing about local town planning. You have a madness in every bill to dismantle the design. You don't want any tools. You want investments. And we ask you: Where? How? Land uses and design are key tools. You committed yourself last year that we would have four hundred local town planning plans ready. Do you know that they've just entered a competition in 12?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u147	And that's it, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u148	I shall conclude, Mr President. This year you say that studies will be carried out for at least six hundred municipal units and the measurement index will be made with the compatibility of the two hundred studies. What can I tell you? Dissolve everything, lying and admiring. But there is no doubt that you are returning us, unfortunately, to the conditions that led the country to the rocks. Once again, however, you will be stopped by the people, who understands. The reality, unfortunately, is measured, lives it. And you know, the instinct of survival is too powerful. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u149	Thank you, Mrs. Perka. Mr. Merios Lazaridis from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Mrs.Apatzidis from Mera25 is being called.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we live, like the whole world, a period characterised by great uncertainties and serious challenges. We are, at the same time, facing the health, climate and energy crisis. We must therefore adapt our policies and limit the effects they cause, create networks for protecting society, especially the weakest, but also promote the reforms that the place needs to take over the new era. That is what the government has done and that is what the government continues to do. From the outbreak of the pandemic to date it has spent over 43 billion euros to support workers, the unemployed and the business world. At the same time, continue the reforms needed to improve the investment environment, to attract new investments, to create new businesses, to improve the service of citizens. He turned to an economic model more attractive, extremist and competitive. He jumped into the digital transition, allowing the state to be more effective, closer to the citizen. It has, at the same time, acted on solid foundations for the transition to the green economy. It succeeded in doing so, while the Cassandras discounted thousands of padlocks and dramatically increasing unemployment, today having more businesses and more jobs than we had before the outbreak of the pandemic. He managed to keep the productive tissue upright and ensure the conditions required for a dynamic relaunching of the economy. And we are now at this very point. The development machines started and people's expectations are reborn. In the third quarter of 2021, the country's GDP increased by 13.4%, compared to the corresponding 2020 quarter, with the average in Europe being 3.9%. The growth rate for the nine-month January-September is more than 9%. The rate of investment growth reaches 18.1% annually and has been the best performance for a decade. The increase in export goods in the nine-month period exceeds 27% over the corresponding period of the previous year. In September, unemployment fell to 13%, from 16.5% in September 2020. Citizens' income was increased in the first half of 2021 by 7.2%. Ladies and gentlemen, this government policy also serves the budget of 2022. He's a developmentist and at the same time socialist. It is the second budget in the last 12 years, which not only places new taxes but also reduces those imposed by the SYRIZA Government. It supports entrepreneurship, the primary sector, the new, the unfair generation of our country. To this end, among the others, it provides for the extension of the programme of 50 000 new jobs, the reduction from January of the legal person tax to 22%, the abolition, which has already been in force since 1 October 2021, of the parental benefit tax - donations up to EUR 800,000, the implementation of the programme of the 'CORDER INDUSTRIA' for young people from 18 to twenty-nine years without work experience, which will receive EUR 1,200 for the first six months of employment, of which 50% will be a wage subsidy and the other 50% increase in wages, the abolition of the fee for mobile subscribers for young people up to twenty-nine years from 1 January 2022, the extension of the housing allowance to students in public IEC, the reduction, starting on 1 October, of VAT on feed from 13% to 6%, the refund of excise duty on oil to young farmers and members of cooperative schemes for 2022. Ladies and gentlemen, these predictions concern all Greek women and all Greeks. They concern the entrepreneur, the farmer, the worker, the unemployed. They are about our young people and young people who are looking for something to get caught and pull forward. They are about our cities and villages. I am sure that the citizens of Kavala who see us today from the Free, Chrysopolitan and Virgin Mary of Thassos welcome both the government's economic achievements so far and the new budget. We hear the voice of our fellow citizens and convey their will to the Greek Parliament. We are watching, but we are not following the opposition to attempted polarization, fanaticism and division. We understand the monotony 'no' in everything as a denial of reality and progress. We understand SYRIZA's attempt to invest in destruction as a deficit of national and social responsibility. We understand the screams and whispers as a substitute for their weaknesses for concrete and realistic proposals. First of all, we realise that the burden of responsibility for today and tomorrow in our country is even heavier. For all this we say 'yes' to the budget, 'yes' to new investments, 'yes' to new and better paid jobs. We say "yes" to Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis about the policies that take our country faster in the new era, which take our society higher, which take Greece with optimism and national confidence in the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr Lazarides, for keeping time. You were perfect. The third circle of speakers is called Maria Apatzides from Mera25. The fourth cycle will be opened by Mr. Akippis from the New Democracy. Mrs. Apajidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u152	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2022 provides for significant cuts in social policy areas. Total transfers of the regular budget for welfare, the unemployed, local authorities and health care are reduced in 2022 by EUR 1.74 billion compared with 2021. The already weak public investment programme is shrinking even further, since from EUR 8.35 billion in 2021 it is falling to EUR 7.8 billion in 2022, the same time that there is money for military expenditure. This expenditure on the public investment programme is also directly allocated. Is it, in fact, a smuggling of public money, since they are derived from funds from public investment programmes to share where else? In the "family" oligarchs. This choice of priorities is not random. The unfortunate budget options are based on a more general logic of the government and the draft "Greece 2.0" which is included in the so-called Recovery and Resilience Fund and refers also to employment, skills and social cohesion. The logic of your budget, gentlemen of the government, is the neoliberal account and the gifts you give employers through it, the reform of labour law and trade union law. When, ladies and gentlemen of the government, you say'reform' do you mean the complete dismantling of the industrial relations that we have seen and the previous laws that you have voted on, namely the abolition of eight hours by the Hatzidakis Act, the introduction of unpaid overtime? In the trade unions, you have also completely undermined any trade union activity. You banned the demonstrations, at first on the pretext of pandemic. You have undermined the trade unions' ability to proclaim strikes, you have broken up collective negotiations. You have fully taken care of the Labour Inspectorate. As regards minimum wages and its definition, you deny a serious debate on this matter. It is very interesting that you are not talking about work, but about employment. This is because you do not make any substantial provision for the creation of new and worthwhile jobs. What you are doing is investing in subsidised employment programmes in the private sector for the unemployed - we remember them also in Samara - through a certain amount of paid full-time employment, as well as specific employment programmes and transition areas, such as liberation, that is to say with deindustrialisation problems and areas with high seasonal employment rates. But, ladies and gentlemen of the government, the paid fixed-time work you like means that you are abolishing labour and insurance rights. It means minimum pay within the framework of supposed training of the workforce, which is, at best, simply recycled to these jobs. It means that you are actually offering all this as a gift to employers, who will not have to put their hand in the pocket once this programme is subsidised. Of course you also ignore the amendment we have tabled as a PART25, which attempts to protect workers more fully in the event of contractual or legal transfer or merger of undertakings, establishments or parts of establishments or undertakings to another employer. In particular, there is a distinction between terms of employment based on their source of origin, i.e. whether they are individual or collective agreements terms and the extent to which the successor is bound by individual contracts of employment, which contain reference clauses to collective agreements and regulations. This amendment is absolutely necessary as a measure to balance the rights of the weaker, namely the worker, against the strongest, namely the successor employer, which is not an option for the worker but a de facto contractor. Finally, the relevant arrangement is absolutely necessary because of the growing talk, due to the transformation of enterprises, due to the fragmentation of their works and their delegation to independent or non-legal independent companies. These, together with the weakening of the collective bargaining power of the workers, have led to a lasting decline in these rights. It is an absolutely necessary amendment, which I think is absolutely necessary to take into account. As a PART25, something that we consider to be an integral element in social cohesion is to introduce a gradual increase of 10% per annum of the minimum wage until it reaches at least EUR 800 monthly and at the same time to establish flexible, but strong collective negotiations. Such measures would be possible if you, gentlemen of the government, had discovered a "leaf tree", but only for the fewer, your friends. You have worked on the pandemic to feed the oligarchy with hundreds of millions of subsidies and allowances. However, the budget also provides for a further EUR 1.5 billion 'gifts', with a reduction of three percentage points in insurance contributions and a EUR 200 grant in the event of the recruitment of a long-term unemployed for a period of six months. You also reduce the tax rates on business profits from 22% from 24%, reduce the tax on company mergers, and with the Public Investment Program you are subsidising the fewer people with approximately EUR 7.45 billion once again. As far as pensioners are concerned, with one hand you gave them some crumbs from the unfair memorandum cuts and the other you get them back through taxation. You've confessed otherwise that it's a burden for you retired people. They live long, as the so-called troika technocrats say, but also former ministers of the memorandum arch say. That is why you have introduced a system of capitalisation that will bring legal cuts to pensions. We, as a PART25, have tabled an amendment regulating the tax treatment of the one-off sums paid or paid to beneficiaries of pensioners or heirs of pensioners in the private and public sectors as reimbursements of retroactive reductions in pensions imposed under previous laws and, where appropriate, considered to be unconstitutional. Your tolerance, Mr President. In particular, it is foreseen that the tax obligation of the beneficiaries is exhausted following the taxation of the single sums of those cuts, at a rate of 20%, including the special solidarity contribution. These provisions are deemed necessary for reasons of equal treatment after the corresponding tax provisions in favour of special wages and need to be taken seriously into account. In conclusion, the conclusion is that the government's budgetary policy is a sound class policy, which prohibits long-term sustainability measures such as what we propose as a MARA25 in full and through concrete amendments, proposals, etc. That is why we are going to vote against it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mrs. Apajidis. We begin the fourth cycle of speakers with Mr. Dionysios Akuppis from New Democracy and Mr. Skourletis from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. You have the floor, Mr. Abby.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u154	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because much has been said in the Chamber and there has been an explanation of the study carried out by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra, and because the explanations have come mainly from colleagues who are not doctors, you will allow me, before I begin my report on the budget, as a doctor, to provide an explanation on this subject that he is referring to. First of all, I would like to say about the specific study referred to in 5% of the tubes, that the rest were in ICU and that it is partly about sorting the most severely ill patients, so no causal relationship. So it should be interpreted with caution. What exactly does that particular thing say? If we have, for example, an intubated island, Zakynthos, we have six beds of intensive treatment, and we have an intangible, seventh, which must be transported, who tells you that he is being transferred if he has huge accompanying problems and must definitely go to an intensive treatment unit outside the island? If there were a unit in Athens, Attica in general or Thessaloniki, I am absolutely certain that you have the opportunity to visit and record incidents that are outside the unit. You haven't done it because there's no such thing. So, here the scientists who have made the study explain to us - and it is sure to be done - that the cases, these cases, which are recorded, are mainly in the province and are cases which cannot be transferred to the centre or to units, cannot, because they will die along the way and no doctor will sign up for a conference that will never end in the reference hospital to which we are sending. You mentioned that the Prime Minister is lying and that at the moment there are people who are imprisoned outside the unit. I tell you that right now in Zakynthos there are three intensive treatment beds, two general incidents and one for COVID, which are free of charge. Really, if someone who is intubated into another area can't go to Zakynthos right now by air transport, aerospace? How exactly do we say there are intubated who are out of unit when we have empty beds right now in the ICUs? And you need to know that single-floor METHs are declared and so there is no question that Zakynthos beds are exclusively for Zakynthos. They're pan-Hellenic, they're given to the EKAV Pan-Hellenic. And because you said before to apologise, will you really apologise for the fact that on 17-1-2019 in Zakynthos it also ended up with a third patient waiting for meth? The Minister told you earlier, Mr. Skylakakis. But listen a little: “Sixty-seven-year-old waiting list for about fifteen days - Two more patients from Zakynthos Hospital had fatal endings. The sad list is increasing with patients who, intubated, expect a bed to be released to an intensive care unit in public hospitals." This is what Mr Giannakos says, which you in the end call for questions to be asked. "Other two patients from Zakynthos Hospital had a fatal outcome. Unfortunately, too, the incidents are a tragic demonstration of how this expectation is progressing and probably is a bad omen of how it will evolve in the next few weeks that will rise and the wave of seasonal influenza." "His last breath left another patient..." and just here he says there is an intensive treatment unit in Zakynthos with six beds, which does not work because there is no medical and nursing staff. The unit is running today. Opened in March 2020, headed by medical and nursing staff, twenty nurses and three intensifiers. You opened it for four and a half years every three months, with communications from the then Minister and MP of Zakynthos. And we're going down. On 16-1-2019 in a post: "MYTH: forty-eight patients on a waiting list – No Haemodynamic and Radiological "Atticon". Hazardous conditions prevail in public hospitals, due to a lack of IF beds and ranches flooding the corridors, as well as essential medical devices inoperative.’ Don't read more. This is 16-1-2019, just before you leave. That's what you left to us and today you come and tell us to apologize. Will you apologise for the fact that you had no pandemic, that you had no pressure, were not in trouble, and left the National Health System in the way we have received it today, and we have improved it with all that we have done, with the recruitments? Not to mention this. It is therefore important to be a little more careful about what we are talking about, because unfortunately today and on the Internet you are hitting and finding everything. I submit the above-mentioned publications in the Minutes. Mr President, if I don't have time, I'm going to stop. Ladies and gentlemen, we are debating the 2022 budget in these days, which has once again been tabled under difficult conditions and under the uncertainty regime that is shaped by both the global health crisis and the international crisis in the field of energy and its consequences. However, the Government of New Democracy despite difficulties remains faithful to its election commitments and brings a budget to the vote with strong growth, reformist and above all social importance. It is also characteristic that the whole of Greek society, our partners, rating agencies and markets recognise that the Greek Government has formulated and implemented a set of regulations aimed at strengthening workers and businesses, attracting significant investment, increasing jobs and further upgrading the Greek economy. It is no coincidence that the financial support of households and businesses for 2020 - 2022 amounts to EUR 43.3 billion. In particular for the fourth quarter of 2021 and 2022, the Government extended the exemption from the special solidarity levy until the end of 2022, reduced the insurance contributions to the private sector by three points and reduced the repayment of all advances. Mr President, I will go to the end of my speech, so that I can leave time for the rest of my colleagues. I don't want to abuse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u155	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u156	I would stress this because it is important that Greek citizens listen to it clearly. The budget of 2022 contains no austerity measures. The increased revenues will come exclusively from the relaunch of the economy and not from any new taxes. We insist on policies to reduce tax burdens on households and businesses and to stimulate investment and exports. In conclusion, the fundamental importance of the project "Greece 2.0" for the substantial and long-term development and enhancement of the Greek economy should be stressed. After all, this will make the most of the resources and invade the country from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr Apepi, and your understanding. Mr Panagiotis Skourletis is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mr.Jikalayas from New Democracy is being prepared. You have the floor, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly disappointing to listen to colleagues on the majority side to try to justify the unjustified and I am referring to this, which saw the light of publicity, in the report by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra, which is a strong trick in what the Prime Minister said in this Chamber a few days ago. And I'm not just talking about his irresponsible statement that it doesn't matter whether someone is being treated within the ICU or on the ranch. You'll tell me, he may not have the necessary knowledge. We know that she did not study medicine, although I do not know about the rest she has studied, how they eventually affect the policy applied and make it more effective. Because the conclusions of the report are the ones that are and do not change. In particular: We would have escaped deaths of 38.5% and 87% death increase for those who were CIVID patients out of ICU. The worst of all, however, is - and this is a lie - that at the same time that this report was aware of it - because that is the result of the evidence - it came here and said that it does not know. You should, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, since this morning, not try to justify this unacceptable statement, but ask the Prime Minister to revise, withdraw, apologize. It is the least that imposes a attitude of a politician, who should be modest in looking at what is happening in society. We called you from the first moment "Why don't you strengthen the ESS" and you told us that it's luxury. We told you that there were no doctors, that some of these ICUs do not have the proper staff, they do not have the proper equipment, and you said that they are two hundred more and you add the ones that existed and the military and private people, who do not need them, but you do not use them. So, then, one can understand the statements that it is a luxury to support the ESS, that it is not necessary and that the COVID case will be a temporary one, so one understands the 820 million cut in the costs of the health budget. Buffet. So it's not SYRIZA who makes politics with deaths. You are the ones who are ignoring a reality, which is sad, which imposes on us all the understanding of self-evident. And it goes without saying that health is a public asset that everyone and everyone must have access. You don't. As a consequence, you deny it. In your European Parliament, your MEPs have not voted in favour of the lifting of the patent and dancing the mutations in Africa. Everyone knows that if there's no simultaneous attempt to narrow the virus around the planet, it's gonna trouble us in this case. In fact, the last report is now coming out and says that, unfortunately, the ESS cannot withstand the burden of this issue of the health crisis and of the COVID. You are judged by the world for your dogmatism and your ideas, but they have a negative impact on our lives and fellow citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, seeing how you have managed things over the last two and a half years and, as they are in the budget, I think you are the most inappropriate government to meet the challenges of the time, which are difficult, great, multiple. First of all, a point: you should thank the previous government for obtaining that large reserve, which, in fact, you claim in the draft budget that it remains and is an element of the solvency of the Greek economy. You should thank the previous government for the regulation of the debt, which has set you an open fiscal path, the convenience to borrow less, the suspension of the Stability Pact, the quantitative relaxation of Europe - which you have never defended - that is, the reconciling of the debt, the solidarity of the states, the lending in the name of the whole European economy. You have never defended these views, these ideas. But you welcome the growth rate, which took a few points, because, beforehand, ELSTAT had revised last year's recession. If, however, one sees the quality of this development, one sees the pathogens that have characterized over the last few decades, the domestic production model still exists. So when the economy develops, imports are growing more and so all of this is reflected in the country's external balance. There is still a monoculture of tourism, and there is no plan at the same time for us to be able to build domestic productive activities here, to expand the production base. The evidence shows that, from 2018 until now, the pay of dependant work has remained established and decreased, while profits are increasing by monitoring growth. Who wins from this development? For example, for this: You are creating an institutional framework in the workplace and companies, which have increased their profits during the pandemic period and Lockdown, such as "EFOD", the first thing it has done is to want more profits, by moving the cost of workers' insurance to the same and from where they were employees, even contractors, to consider them as partners. These are the results of your policy. Was the Recovery Fund an opportunity so that we can make use of the resources to intervene in the DNA of this problematic economic model of Greece, so that we can incorporate small and medium-sized enterprises into the financial possibilities so that we can have a different approach to the environment? You don't. Self-government was absent in planning, you alone decide, in the absence of society. In fact, you come with a plan which means more money for a few, more inequality. Ladies and gentlemen, you think taxes on their own are capable of bringing investments. That's not confirmed. You are presenting us as investment takeovers made by the funds. We are an economy that has suffered a 'fundation', except that the funds after two, three, four, five years, in another given juncture, will rise up and then begin to collapse and there will be a deinvestment. Because a transverse example is 49% of the ETUC, of this natural monopoly that bought it by a company managing the insurance contributions of Australian workers, which has nothing to do with energy. Still, you're quite capable of this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u159	Slow down, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u160	I want a minute and a half, Mr President. You're not saying anything about accuracy. I heard yesterday Mr Rusopoulos who celebrated because Greece yesterday for just one day was found at the lowest wholesale price in the wholesale electricity sector in Europe. Today you know he went up from last 43% and lost this best place? But that's not the way it is. Because prices are not affected by cheap renewable energy sources, as Mr Rusopoulos said yesterday. Because prices, as they are formed on the wholesale energy market, go at the highest limit value of the system rather than at the median price that will be the median cost. Thus cheap hydroelectric, hydroelectric production of electricity, cheap RES, would fall the price of natural gas. It does not go that way and you have not put this in Europe. They're calling it the high-profile scientists here from the Polytechnics. Move on a road like this. You have not done any checks to see whether harmonized practices exist in the setting of the electricity price, the Energy Regulatory Authority does not look at the cost and price ratio, and most importantly, when you say that France has the most expensive price in wholesale, more expensive megawatts, you forget this, that 50% of the electricity produced in France is channelled to consumption and businesses through forward-market contracts, which is not there. You don't do that thing. That is why this is the most speculative sparsely populace market, which works at the expense of households and businesses. Literally reduce everything in the air and refuse to use your weapons to reduce excise duties. Inflation is much more than what is announced, if you look at housing, if you look at fuel, if you look at the popular products of supermarkets and pay it the weakest and especially the young.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u161	Mr. Skourletis, he spent half a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u162	Ladies and gentlemen, I conclude by saying this. The dilemma before us is whether we will have a neoliberal model, a broadening of inequalities, or whether we will go on a path where we can have a fair growth with new jobs, better paid and a policy to protect the environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u163	Close, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u164	This dilemma, ladies and gentlemen, is addressed primarily to you, and I refer to the colleagues in the JRC and Mera25 and KINAL. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u165	Be well. You always do the same to me. You don't respect me, I don't want it, but the institution. You always do the same to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u166	I take advantage of your sympathy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u167	Mr. Zeis Tzikalayas from New Democracy is called in Stepma and Evangelia Lykoulis from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u168	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, by succeeding in Step by SYRIZA's previous colleague, who without evidence and arguments attacked the government's health policy, I should like to say to everyone that it is clear that the government has done much for health and has continued to do so, and the budget shows us that in 2022 more money will be made available and that what is needed will be used to stand next to the person in need, next to the whole of society. We are talking today about a budget which has taken place at a very difficult time through the global economic crisis, a situation caused by pandemic. Nevertheless, indicators and reality are positive. We anticipated a growth of 3.6% in 2021 and will close to approximately 6.9%. 2022 will be 4.5%. GDP, Gross National Product in 2022 will go a little beyond 2019 GDP, to say we are returning to normal pace. The same is shown by all the indicators of unemployment, either by the Greek or the European Statistical Authority. We have and will continue to have a decline in unemployment. Our government has stood by the households and businesses all these years. We gave more than 23 billion in 2020, more than 16 billion in 2021, we will give more than 3.3 billion in 2022. Some things I have to stress and I consider to be important from the budget for 2022 are the continuation of the discharge of the special solidarity levy, the continuation of the reduction of three units of insurance contributions to the private sector, the reduction of VAT from 24% to 13% in a number of products and services, such as transport, cinemas, theatres, culture, tourism, gyms, schools of tourism. We continue to extend the "GEOGRAPHY" and "COMPANY". Debt as a percentage of Gross National Product from 206% last year is reduced to 197% this year and will decrease to 189% in 2022. The inflation that has really pressed the economy over the past few months is evidence that it will improve in the second quarter of 2022, diverge and close by 0.8% in 2022. Some other interesting elements: in 2022 we will have a pilot implementation of the central administration's performance budget. We'll have measurable indicators of the environmental footprint in our policies. Citizens will have the right and have access to the classification of expenditure. They'll have increased income tax revenues, goods, services, consumption. Social security expenditure will be EUR 221 million, 23 million more than the target set by the medium-term programme. The costs of social utility organisations are increased, EUR 399 million more than the medium-term programme. And coming to health expenditure, 2022 will be 6.3% of GDP. In real numbers it will be over 250 million more in 2022. We will go to EUR 4.5 billion, because we expect there to be a pillow of over EUR 700 million for emergencies. And some particular innovations in our budget: we are establishing the first sign for our young people from eighteen to twenty-nine years old, which will cost 28 million euros but is worth it. The fact is that electricity has increased in recent months. Nevertheless, we have taken measures for the first three hundred kilowatts, which means EUR 34 for the public in the month, a reduction, which is more than EUR 49 for those entitled to a social invoice, which is more than EUR 500 million for 2022. For the heating allowance, until last year it was an oil allowance and now it is a heating allowance and I know that this month and in my area and throughout Greece it is getting increased amounts even in more urban areas, because we have increased the money from EUR 84 million to EUR 174 million. In December, we will give a minimum guaranteed income of twice the minimum. And some other innovations, as the Minister for Rural Development is present: VAT on animal feed since October has fallen from 13% to 6%. The important thing, which was a request for many years, the return of the excise oil tax will concern young farmers and farmers in collaborative shapes, which is our policy. This will cost 50m euros in the budget, because from the start of our term of office we have explained that we will give incentives for mergers, for small and medium-sized enterprises, for small and medium-sized enterprises. We borrowed and went out 30 years and five-year bonds at zero rate. It is a consequence of the seriousness of our policy and the confidence we inspire abroad. Greece is the only OECD country that does not need measures to prevent debt growth. I repeat that it is the only OECD country. Some figures on the Public Investment Programme: In the previous government until 2019 it was 3.1% to 3.7% of GDP. We in this pandemic, so much we had to do to protect health, 2020 was at 6.4%, 2021 at 4.7%, and 2022 will be at 4.2%. In 2022, from the Public Investment Programme, we will get the first EUR 3.2 billion from the Recovery Fund. In total it will give us 31 billion euros over the next few years and the disbursement will already begin in 2022, because we are ready, we have programming and studies. Closed up, before I tell everyone a good Christmas, to say three words: vaccine, vaccine, vaccine, either the first or the second or the third dose of the vaccine. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u169	Thank you, too. Merry Christmas. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to inform you that the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, with his letter of 14 December 2021 to the President of Parliament, tells us that following a secret vote by the members and friends of the Change Movement, which was held in accordance with the Movement's Statute on 5 and 12 December 2021, he was elected as the new President of the Movement, Mr Nikolaos Androullakis. Following this, on 14 December 2021, the parliamentary group of the Change Movement met today, which unanimously elected the MEP, Michail Katrin.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u170	I also want to inform you, in order to arrange your programme, that today we will also cover the seventh cycle, that is to say we will close with Mr. Konstantinos Markos of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Now, Mrs. Evangelia Lykikilis of the Change Movement is called to Step and then I will give the floor to the Minister of the Interior, Mr. Maki Voridis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u171	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, our President Nikos Androullakis made a public position a few weeks ago, referring to pandemic and economy, with an emphatic title: "The Crois despise the peoples, inequality and injustice". So she said there that the health crisis in the pandemic might have been an asymmetric shock for humanity in the global economy, but its consequences are directly dependent on the decisions made by you, national governments, as a result of the disadvantaged and lost. It has therefore stressed that, on the basis of the data so far, inequalities within societies and between states are growing rapidly and has given concrete examples. One example is the closure of schools because of the coronary pandemic, which involves more than a hundred and six million students in nineteen countries and is expected, if this continues, to cause destruction of a whole generation, says the United Nations. The second example: Just a few days ago the Secretary-General of the World Health Organization revealed that 75% of the vaccines taken worldwide so far have been collected in only ten countries, talking about appalling injustice. At the same time, Nikos Androulakis says, modern Crois, who took the maximum advantage during the pandemic, instead of contributing to the science and vaccination of the poorest areas of the planet, are engaged in a competition, which touches the limits of the ancient Greek hybrid, for who will go first in space. What is the correlation between these, ladies and gentlemen, with what we are doing here? So what's our government doing? It celebrates, the government has been celebrating and not celebrating today, but has been celebrating since the beginning for a long time. Now, these days, it celebrates the budget it has submitted and we are being called upon to ratify. We don't. We are happy to live in reality, Minister. Although some, after the official reception we received from the Greek people in our last internal elections, they perhaps expected that we would have symptoms of arrogant and arrogance, but that is now about others, not our own place. But we really do not understand where, in fact, you are drawing this optimism from your figures and objectives. In these days, it is true that you seem to have set up a performance. You shared roles, applaud yourselves, one co-operator, saying: "How good you were, my dear." Without seeing the philosopher audience looking at you, but unspeakable, unspeakable, heard. Once again, you fly communication fireworks, with the contribution of of course the media on the well-known list, but, if it wasn't so dangerous, it would be at least politically outdated. But you are trying to convince us with your budget that we are returning to normality, that we are making a 'total return', as you say. But, you know, the truth is here, the truth is cruel and merciless. Whatever you're up to, you won't be able to change that truth. So I will help you by giving a simple description, without going ahead with an assessment of the reality that Greek society experiences. Anyone listening, judging, comparing and evaluating. That is the measure in politics. I therefore begin with the tragic situation that has taken place recently in the pandemic crisis, which is really hammering the country. We touched the sad record of 30 dead coronary. The public hospitals have collapsed and far exceeded their limits. The health staff are protesting about inhuman conditions, incomplete infrastructures and the need for direct staffing of hospitals with permanent staff. I wonder what you're waiting for? What else do you want this to happen? Are you aware that the measures you have taken so far are not enough or are they not returning? And because we are tired - all the wings of your counterpopulation - I will just say it, Mr Ministers, and understandably: what is happening now in Greece was happening in Europe when there was no vaccine. That's what's happening. So you failed to convince the Greek people, you failed to convince. And you failed, because the people didn't trust you. Simple as that. He trusts every doctrine. And you're blaming him! Trusts every idea. And you're blaming him! He trusts every comoyianite. And you're blaming him! But your beliefs defeated you, your idealism defeated you, and Communism defeated you. They beat you. And it's the ones who beat you? Is it the mighty, the mighty, the winner, or is it the weak and the loser? Who's to blame? Your government is not commanded by machines, run by people. So your state, with all the staff, the officers and the staff, who perform this great accomplishment, have a name and surname. So look at you, look, at least if you want to be consistent in the roles, look for you too. The other topic that the Greek people have been experiencing these days is the wave of accuracy, but you hide it like water under the carpet. You'll step on the rug and the water will come out, it's just stuff. Biliettes are sending farmers and farmers for retrospective - he says - an increase in current, which they now take after three and four months. Should we talk about the optimistic budget scenarios? Our rapporteurs have told you and I'm not allowed by the President to escape, I know. Unorthodox the way, which will surely force you to revise sizes many times in the immediate future. Unfortunately, a stable budget that you cannot plan with a successful development strategy, a stable and integrated, finally, budget? A little time, Mr. President, may I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u172	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u173	Not as much as Mr. Skourlet. A little. You are constantly stressing that in 2021-2022 growth will come to 11.7% on the basis of the budget. You are likely to be able to exceed this figure if the positive trend of the third quarter continues and will fully overcome the downturn of 9% in 2020. With the European Commission's autumn estimates, the country's recession was the second deepest of the European Union for 2020. What do you say? Apart from this, one wants a lot to figure out what you're telling us and who you're telling them? And a comment, because the dear Interior Minister comes after me. I would like you to have the opportunity to comment, Minister, but I too could comment on what you are about to say. I saw the budget for local government and all that you say and you will say at the Step, I think, of the House. What the pens have thrown down in the meeting with the Prime Minister on 3 December with what you said to them, with what you say to the world that you will do to the municipalities and regions, while the elements of the budget are catalysts that you are not only helping self-government, but that in the budget 2021 will be closed with a deficit of EUR 152 million, while in 2022 there is a surplus of 60 million. I will give you a simple example of how it supposedly ignores the very reality: a hot issue of days, an extension of the special legal framework for public contractors to municipalities because of the pandemic. Are you going to tell us about this? Aren't you going to tell us about this in your speech? In the budget for 2022, ladies and gentlemen, it appears that it will allegedly be reduced from EUR 2,708 to EUR 2,622 billion, that is, by EUR 86 million. It is reported that they were increased to 2021 compared with 2022 mainly due to the recruitment of fixed-term contractors in order to meet the exceptional needs arising from the pandemic. I would remind you, however, at this point that the mayors rightly demand a new extension for the CIVID contractors, assuming that once the pandemic is still here and threatens the lives of the citizens, it is also necessary for contractors to be here, to continue to meet the needs involved. What are you going to do with it? In particular, since these municipalities have not come to these municipalities, then, by means of the forthcoming new public-private work programme. There's a matter.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u174	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u175	In Greece there are complaints by the municipalities that the aid you give them is crumbs in simple words. I have too many examples. They're crumbs. And, of course, it seems - and I am ending with this phrase, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance - that the budget you have tabled is unstable, fragmented and clandestine, but above all it is worthy of a conservative government, which will not lead to the proper and efficient use of resources. But you remain so unreliable. So your doctrine, your ideoscopy, your comoayanism everywhere, and the pandemic and the economy. Unfortunately, you confirm that the Croatians guard the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u176	You touched Mr. Skourlet. And you did another damage: the Minister had prepared his word just in ten minutes to end. Now you've put this on him, and I'm going to get away! Since we have a message from colleagues and employees, we will also close with the seventh cycle, with Mr Marcos. It's the eighty-nine today. The Minister for the Interior, Mr. Makis Voridis, is called at Step for 10 minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u177	Thank you very much, Mr President. If you wish, by honouring the dialectics in Parliament, to begin not as I thought, but by continuing or answering the question raised to me by Mrs Liikanen, what will happen with the CIVID contractors? The answer is that I imagine you will be voting for - if I understand the spirit of your position - the three-month extension that we will give until 31-3-2022 for these contractors. Of course, because you referred to the increased amounts, indeed, there were increased amounts, because there are increased recruitments for the management of the pandemic. I hope that this pandemic will end, and that is why these conventions are linked to the treatment of pandemic. That is why they are fixed-term contracts. Otherwise, it would be something else. So I answered your question. This extension will take place in the racist bill that is being prepared. It will be voted on at 21 and we will therefore have the opportunity to discuss it there too. But I wanted to ask, above all, the Left this. If I remember correctly and if I've read them well, you accept that there is a cause and cause relationship between economic policies being pursued and the result produced, right? In other words, there is a relationship between what the government is doing and the result of these policies. So, now I wanted to ask you - because you obviously accept this, that there is this relationship - that these performances we have before us in the Greek economy now accept that they are related to the policies that have been pursued or not, to your mind only when there is failure and, in particular, to their political opponents, there are responsibility for failure? But, when economic policies are successful, do they not have anything to do with policies? For otherwise you must answer how it is possible to vote against a budget, when you have as a given result that, thanks to these economic policies, we are achieving unprecedented growth rates of 6.9% - probably to close further - and the forecast of the budget for growth is 4.5%, i.e. numbers and performance that the Greek economy has not met and has not achieved over the last few years. How will you explain that you are voting against policies that result in the spectacular declining of unemployment? Will you give us any answers why you're doing this? Because here there are real things. We don't discuss theory. You say some theories now. But here, there is a concrete result. These policies you condemned have brought these results. What are you going to do with this? Suddenly, is everything irrelevant? So here you must give concrete answers to these points and I will say that this is a set of policies. Because something I have also heard, ladies and gentlemen, about the way in which we have financed the local government in the Ministry of Interior and how we finance them in the next budget, the answer is that there is a total interim increase in the budget of the Ministry of the Interior of the order of 4.5%. The large part of the Ministry of Interior's budget is transfers to local government agencies. These transfers have an increase in the costs and support of TAIs, the level of 2.7%-3% and the costs of the transfers for TAIs 2%. And because I heard something about crumbs, you just know who we are before here that we remember the crumbs. I still remember Lafazani - not the late Lafazan, but the early Lafazan of that time, ten to twelve years ago - which he did, when the income policy was voted every time here, which was voted on either in terms of income policy, or there were no surpluses or, to a large extent, was responsible for the fact that the country ended up where it ended? So when budget deficits were then always voting for increases in income policy and wages, we had underneath Mr Lafazanis saying 'flying' to us. Even after the experience we have had over the years, these increases made in the budget, I have heard them call them "flavours". What were the crumbs? The 100 million additives given to the LAGs to deal with the problems with the municipalities, the 50 million additives that have been given to deal with disasters. That's all crumbs! I expect to see if you are going to start supporting expansion policies that have destroyed us again, and if, from the experience of bankruptcy, you have collected something or you just want to get us back into this situation that we have been through so painfully. But there is experience in our people and that is why I am not concerned. That is why the people trust this government and trust this budget and trust these policies, which, at the level of administrative reform, are what we do at the Ministry of the Interior, so that we all understand where we are, you have voted against them all. Do you know what you have voted against this year in terms of bills from the point of view of adopted laws? You voted against teleworking. The teleworking law has come, which is one of the mechanisms with which we are going to deal with the digital age that comes and we are going to prepare for it and you have voted against it. You voted against the Internal Audit Act, which is a key mechanism for dealing with corruption and for increasing transparency in the public. You voted against it. You voted against the Lobbying Act in order to build for the first time in that country an institutional framework for exercising influence and regulating it. You voted against this too. You voted the day before yesterday against the law in which we are putting order and transparency in the Civil Society organisations so that at last the way in which these organisations are financed is clear, clear, transparent and concise, strengthening their own role and effectively respecting the taxpayer's money. You voted against this too. I will not say that, of course, - that is the only logical point in what you have voted against - you have voted against the abolition of mere proportions to the local government agencies. That's where I understand what you voted against. Just what you have not yet understood is that we are trying to gather to the municipalities the incompatibilities of your own policy, what you have institutionalised and which actually make it impossible to operate and produce the municipalities today. You have voted against everything, all the administrative reform. All the effort that the government is making, which, of course, has and has to do with what is coming and what we are preparing for, you have voted against it. Why? Because you manifest yourself as a truly reactionary force, as a blind opposition force. It is the same reason that you are voting against a development budget, that is your own role and your character now. Because you can't even understand what it's coming. What are we doing today, which fortunately you don't have to vote for, why do we do it without asking you? Today, at the National Centre for Public Administration and Government, we are training civil servants by strengthening their digital skills. Who's doing this? Who are we working with? I shall say the bad word, with a multinational, MICROSOT! With them we work together and bring people forward, preparing public administration for the challenges of the future. What are the challenges of the future? That at a time when digital technology is changing the data and at which the private sector runs fast ahead if public administrations not only in Greece... I shall conclude, Mr President. ...but all over the world, they don't adapt, then what happens? They'll be perceived as weights. Public administrations will not be prevented from exercising their right to regulation. They will not be able to monitor the speed of developments. The private sector will run much faster, public administrations will be perceived as a problem and as a delay and as a burden, and this will create a huge political tension. So, at the time when we need to move on to digital transformation, which we need staff to train it in the public sector, so that he can monitor these developments, what are you? You are the daily absolute denial and reaction. That is why you have to look for why, two and a half years after our governance, the New Democracy remains hegemony and for the first time, after many years, there are conditions for overthrowing the ideological hegemony of the Left. This is also a pleasant and positive one primarily for the Greek society and the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. The SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative - Progressive Alliance Mr Skourletis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u179	Thank you very much, Mr President. I am sure Mr Vorides listens well and understands. Because he referred to the financing of self-government, I will not say much. I shall table here a table drawn up by Mr Petsa on 2 December of this year. He presented to the Committee of the Regions the table "The development of the TAs, present and future" and shows that in recent years local government I and II agencies have taken less money. All the other things you're telling us, I think it's for free. Does your State Secretary or Deputy say so, what is it? Local government for you - and here is where reality comes and disguises you - knows that it has breathed over the days of SYRIZA and this breath is called "PHILDIMOS 1", "PILADIMOS 2", extraordinary grant to mountain and island municipalities, exceptional sums for natural disasters and water shortages, and permanent staff competitions in cleanliness. The government knows all this. He still produces plays, works on our signature. You have drained the municipalities and you ask them, under these circumstances, to have a surplus of 60 million this year. What are the municipalities to have surpluses, anonymous companies? The municipalities must provide social services and, in particular, in these circumstances, there should also be exceptional costs for COVID and you do not anticipate them. The results for staff have not yet been obtained in "Help at Home". Have you raised the phone to take the ASEP, say what is going on with these people, or are you preparing to privatize the service as well? Finally, you said you voted on teleworking. Do you now apply it to pandemic conditions? Are you applying it? Do you have a plan? Are you a few dead people? I don't know how many people are today. Is it going to be applied? From there, because you said for bankruptcy and for reactionary and hegemony powers, he is not the leader who cannot satisfy the needs of the larger part of society. You may manipulate and dominate for the moment, but hegemony is not said when the middle layers are crushed and when 31% of the workers in Greece today are paid 200 euros. Debt operations, do you know what it means? Overcompensations, Greek statistics of the Karamanlis government, hatreds, remulsions, all of which are synonyms with the vicious bipartisan past. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u180	Mr. Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u181	Thank you, Mr President, for giving me the floor again. Dear Minister, Mr Voridis, I listened carefully to you triumph a little while ago, about the excellent growth performance that your government will achieve this year and to blame all of us and ask for a counter-project from all of us on how we are addressing you, since you have achieved the greatest growth in the last decades in the country and how we explain this development. Mr. Voridis, you've been Minister for years and an experienced politician. Don't you know, - do you want to know about it from me? - that growth is compared to the next year? Let me just say it more simply to the Greek people who listens to us. If we compare the growth of 2021 to the year 2019 that is the only normal year, that is, the year before COVID you will have a recession this year of more than 3%. So, Mr President, I say this so that we do not mock society because it is no longer your development! It's Mr. Varoufakis' famous example with the apple cafass. When I have ten apples, I have ten apples. If it takes me six and four, I have a 60% recession. If time gives me one, and I have five, I seem to have 15% growth compared to last year I had four apples. But in fact compared to the previous year with the ten apples I had in the cafas, I have a recession again. And you go out here and tell us how we explain the growth you haven't achieved? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u182	Mr. Vorides has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. I have some firm beliefs. One of them is that the Left has nothing to do with the numbers, but none. I heard Mr. Skourlet. He doesn't even want any trouble here. He just wants to read. Financing of self-government days, Skourletis, apologies for SYRIZA: 2019 was 1,811. Today's funding is 2,271. What can we do now? How are we going to solve this? He doesn't get over it! Counted beans! And isn't that impressive is that of all the arguments you picked? Didn't you find anyone else to say? Because that's overwhelming. This is where it ends, it's 20% over. So there is no debate in this regard. But you told me about the backup. I said it just now. Is there anything you don't understand? We gave a 100 million emergency grant. By the way, I should also like to clarify this to my fellow SYRIZA colleagues, because their governmental mandates obviously did not help them resolve basic questions. Exceptional aid shall not be included in the budget. Guess why. Because they're extraordinary, so they're not set in the ordinary budget. It's a trick! So when emergency issues arise, there are obviously forecasts that have been made in the budget. That is why these exceptional aid was granted for both COVID and the disasters. The support is therefore clear. You told me about "PHILO". I don't want to tell you if there were or there wasn't any money, and if you'd found it or talked it out. I don't want to tell you that. Let me ask you this, Mr Skourletis: because at least you're obviously following these, how much is the money for the "TREATI"? It's 2.4 billion. How much was the "Philodime" money? Can I remind you? It was 1.4 billion. There's a billion on top. What are you now talking about who has strengthened self-government? So you chose a slippery field. For Merra25, I admit I'm not watching you. Explain why.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u184	I'm glad.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u185	I'm sure you're happy. There's a reciprocity in this joy. So I'd like to explain why. Because life is simple and questions are simple and square. Does the economic policies that we are pursuing relate to the economic result produced or not? You who are deep and well known to Marxism will obviously answer that they have something to do with it. So when you bring this economic result, because you say, the Left is not raining it, it is not a natural phenomenon, but it is a product of political choice, so obviously these political choices have brought this economic result. What don't you understand? This financial result, this unique growth rate, these arrays in Europe, this divergence in unemployment, all this is a result of the budget that we are voting on. The people know it and they understand it. If you don't understand it, find out if you have any mismatch with the people.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u186	Mr Vagionas Georgios from New Democracy has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u187	Ladies and gentlemen, Mr President. The general government's debt is projected to be about 190% of GDP in 2022, with a decrease of 7.5 percentage points compared with 1921. The figures show a good economic growth that is the result of a targeted effort by this government. However, our country cannot be compared with expenditure and deficit terms with other EU countries, the European Union, such as the North, because it has a high position in defence expenditure and, moreover, it is a country of entry of migrants and refugees and therefore it has increased expenditure on the management of the problem. Defence and immigration costs make 3% of GDP in our country. They must therefore be excluded from the deficit assessment. Because if the deficit is 3%, it is all going for these two expenditures that I have mentioned before. The former Chancellor of Germany, Mrs Merkel, mentioned “as much as the hardest time of her term of office when she asked for so many of the citizens in Greece”. But nine months ago the Greens and the Left passed a resolution on the mortgage loan and the compensation, which Mrs Merkel rejected. After all, the truth about the crime of the memorials was confessed to the memorials of former American President Barack Obama in November 2020, where he writes himself: “Unfortunately everyone knew, but no one told the truth, letting Greece go bankrupt.” That's the truth. The Government of New Democracy does not say it. It's called the leaders of foreign countries. Recently, Mr Solts' party - and I would remind you that the Anti-Cancellor is the founder of the Recovery Fund - of the current Chancellor of Germany has been openly in favour of the relative relaxation of the Stability and Recovery Pact. But Mrs Berbock of the Greens, Minister for Foreign Affairs, has claimed and included the issue of the mortgage loan and the corrections to the manifesto of the new governance agreement. Are you ignoring this? The attitude of Mr Lindner of the liberals, German Finance Minister, was uncertain. Although he supported Greece's exit from the euro - what almost all the Left wants on 7 December - that is, a week ago, he congratulates Greece on the good results of reforms and the economy. You don't even know that? The New Democracy Government does not say it, nor is it proud or triumphant. Humbly and modest. It is therefore a good time to find a solution for the mortgage loan and the compensation that poisons the relations between the two states. President McCron, on 9-12-21, also presented as the priority of the French Presidency of the European Union the revision of the financial rules. For example, it excludes defensive expenditure on deficit assessment. You don't even know that? Anything you're not watching? You don't recognize anything? I believe that the exception should add environmental and infrastructure costs, which are in need of many countries, especially today. He also spoke about strengthening European borders by promoting a'strategic compass' on the one hand and a 'White Paper' on Europe's defence and security and establishing a common European policy for young workers, about an 'ERASMUS' programme. You don't know that either? How are you gonna make a budget? Therefore, in order to emphasise the investment and infrastructure needed for the development of the country, there must be two things: to intensify efforts to revise the pact. That's where we all need it. It's not just New Democracy, but that's the first reason. Also, take into account the specificities of each country for debt and deficit assessment and give Member States greater flexibility to the front of public investment and the environment. Furthermore, another known lady, Mrs Lagard as Director General of the IMF admitted that many of the demands they had from Greece were more than its potential, especially as regards the primary surpluses. Now, therefore, since its position in the European Central Bank, we can be strengthened by buying Greek government bonds to repay high-interest loans and create a financial area for investment. Secondly, to assess the use of PPPs in wider sectors of the economy with a view to a positive economic, social and environmental impact of the investment. Already multi-billion projects have been approved and are under way in 2022. That's six billion! The same instrument of PPPs should be used in the context of tackling climate change with an indicative area of action in our country, marine wind parks in shallow non-purpose areas, an action described as a priority in the European Union, as well as the extensive use of hydrogen for a climate-neutral future. However, energy storage is also expected to play a central role in achieving the targets in terms of the use of renewable energy sources. If we succeeded in doing this, we could mobilise the demographic and insurance system and I believe that we will achieve it in part. So we all need to consider our responsibility, think in the long term and European, to assist in the recovery of our country with substantial regulations and claims. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u188	The next speaker is Ms Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA. Here, Mrs. Gara, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about the 2022 budget, when our country is experiencing an inconceivable health tragedy with the government, unfortunately, indifferent. Our thirty-dead fellow citizens yesterday, about nineteen and a half thousand dead in total, hundreds permeated outside of the ICM and the derailed vaccination programme are not simple figures. They are human lives, they are tragic losses that highlight the inefficiency of the government, which also proves Mr Tsiodra's report that saw the light of publicity yesterday and claims that thousands of our fellow people would have saved their lives if they were treated in ICU. Unfortunately, we have a government which, instead of taking steps to protect society, to strengthen the ESS, to support doctors, nurses, heroes you once applauded in the balconies, is cut from the regular budget of EUR 821 million from health in the middle of a pandemic. And it's not just the health tragedy. You condemn the Greek people and financial impoverishment. And that is a conscious political choice of the New Democracy. You strangle production forces, small and medium-sized traders, workers, professionals, farmers, farmers. Unfortunately, we are rushing through the 'third week' syndrome. Households on the third week of each month fail to meet their obligations, they are unable to live. You, too, don't care. And not just that, but you're mocking them. You swear in the name of growth, but eventually you only make profits for a few and selected. At the same time, however, the daily lives of citizens are dramatically deteriorating. Violently remove all support measures for workers and professionals, while the pandemic is gigantic. You remove hundreds of millions of millions from the real economy and the households by confronting the pandemic as it is suddenly over within a day. Close the eyes in front of the harsh reality and the needs of Greek and Greek citizens. Truly, I wonder: What are you going to say to small and medium-sized enterprises about the huge liquidity problem and the exclusion from banking lending, the exclusion from the 12.8 billion of the Recovery Fund, while at the same time you are not planning to make use of the Development Bank for small and medium-sized enterprises? What are you going to tell farmers and farmers who face a dramatic increase in production costs and dramatically increase in electricity, water, oil and supplies? What are you going to tell the retired people you're cutting off their thirteenth pension? What are you going to tell the citizens who cannot pay for the electricity, their heating, but also the main types of first need? What are you going to say in the retail trade, what are you going to say in the focus, what are you going to tell those suffocating professionals every day? You will tell them that growth rates are running, but people are unfortunately. You are consciously driving the real economy in suffocation conditions. You let the precision wave scan and the cartels win. And this is your conscious political choice. And that's not good enough. You plan for 2022 additional taxes of 3.5 billion. These are additional taxes, regardless of those relating to growth rates. This is the return to normality, isn't it? Unemployment, insecurity, poverty? Is that the regularity for you? Ladies and gentlemen, you are tabling a budget that does not actually respond to it does not respond to social needs. While in all advanced states they discuss strengthening public health systems and public structures, this ideological and dangerous government reduces health funding. At a time when all European countries are increasing the minimum wage for overcoming the crisis and using it as a development tool, as SYRIZA proposes emphatically and constantly to raise a minimum wage to EUR 800, the New Democracy Government is bringing the country out of eight, unpaid overtime, the labour jungle, the reduction in the real income of workers. At the time when the other states are discussing aid to the welfare state, you are planning to reduce social spending to 1.7 billion. While in Europe they are discussing the revision of the Stability Pact, the deletion of part of the pandemic debt, state intervention to limit accuracy and enhance liquidity, the protection of labour and vulnerable persons, as SYRIZA has been proposing and insisting on the first day, you are making progress in the violent adaptation and poverty of our people. And it is not enough that you are indifferent to the needs of society. At the same time, you are attempting to deceive yourself. You are claiming an exceptional allowance for people with disabilities, while at the same time you are cutting a sum by 53 million. You are deceiving pensioners with a limited exceptional allowance when you have already abolished the thirteenth pension that SYRIZA brought back as a permanent measure of EUR 900 million. Invite growth by selling promises of major projects from the Recovery Fund, while at the same time reducing the funds. You anticipated 2021 influxes of 2.6 billion, and you now reach 600 million. It's 2 billion lost from the Greek economy. At the same time, you have also declared a payment stop to the NSRF with over one billion outstanding payments, limiting liquidity to the Greek economy. You see, your final state only successfully performs direct assignments to friends, poster recruitment and rumours of all types, except always institutional framework. After all, a timeless feature of the Right is allergy to the rule of law and the functioning of democratic institutions. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government has failed in all fields and areas. You're advertising the investments. However, in the unique areas you invest, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, it is the intensification of inequalities, the dissolution of the social state and social cohesion, the deterioration of the region and the quality of life of the citizens. But you invest very expensively in propaganda and communication. You invest in fear, authoritarianism, and arrogantness. I shall conclude, Mr President. You invest in maintenance and anachronization. You really and daily attack the majority of citizens. That is why political change is necessary immediately. A new principle is needed for our society, another political plan, an alternative plan for progressive and pro-collegiate, where the needs of society will be in the first place, a progressive government working to protect, dignity and well-being of workers, the new generation, farmers, professionals, a progressive government working for the development, strengthening of the social state and the rule of law. We are talking about a government that has the man and his needs in a first shot. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u190	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mr Stagioras asked for the floor for a brief speech. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u191	Three, four minutes and no more. I'm picking up some thoughts. I don't want to interfere all the time. I would like to make a few things clear and to put forward some indicators that I think will help the debate. Madam colleague, other taxes, other tax revenues. You said the taxes were increasing. Tax revenues increase, not taxes. Taxes not only increase, but decrease. And I've caused you because the evidence is public. 70% of society has paid lower taxes - and the whole Chamber has paid here. It must therefore be clear that the tax rates have fallen, the taxes of households and businesses have decreased and tax revenues have increased because there is not only a recovery of strong, but also sustainable growth. Secondly, with regard to health expenditure, full information has been provided by the Government. You've confused the budget balance. The balance sheet also includes expenditure coming from the country's reserve. In the budget, you estimate that from the country's reserve - it's written in the budget with a star at the Ministry of Health - these funds will go in there. So we'll have increased health costs. And I repeat this here today and I and Mr. Skopulakis. Whatever public health needs from the Treasury will have. Anything else! Thirdly, you said that we are removing all the support measures. Inside the budget is EUR 3.5 billion in 2022. You said to me: 'What are we going to say to the small and medium-sized ones?' But I went to GSEVE - he was also your colleague, Mr Haritsi - and GSEVE said: 'Go to the measures of the government', especially to the returnees. I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u192	Please calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u193	You said: 'What do we say on the focus?' At the focus I will say that we have given EUR 2.32 billion. I will say that we have given seventy-seven thousand fifty-seven businesses EUR 1,128 billion back. I will say that we have given ten thousand five hundred sixty-two businesses a focus of 72.7 fixed costs. I'll say that in all the catering business we've given reduced rents of 200 million. Total, EUR 2,32 billion. I'll stand up to them and all the government with confidence in them. These are the answers. You said social policy. I'll testify two paintings. For unemployment, there has been the greatest decline in unemployment in Europe over the last two years, 3%. It's not about celebrations. The level of unemployment is high, but it is the greatest reduction in the last two years. I'm presenting it for the Minutes. And I will present you with the citizen's available income every three months. The public's available income in the first and second quarters of 2021 is higher than in the first and second quarters of 2019 that we had no pandemic. Here is the whole time series, all transparency in all elements. I'm filing this table in the Minutes, too. I'd like to make two final thoughts. Mrs Gerovas said earlier that we have committed ourselves to a high financial adjustment. We're not committed. Our estimates are that we will catch quite high primary surpluses. Obviously we demand realistic primary surpluses - not like the 3.5% that the previous government has inherited us - and we will use the financial space to reduce even more taxes and social security contributions and to exercise a proper rational social policy. Finally, Mr Skourletis, I heard you earlier saying that we have said nothing good about the previous government that left us in cash and left us with a very good loan cost. I'll testify two paintings. The loan cost you left us - after the turbulence of 2015 - was, for example, in the 2,46% bond. Before the pandemic was about 1.45%. I think 2.46% with 1.45% is not a small difference. And today, it is 1.32%, since it has indeed increased the cost of borrowing in Greece because Greece is not in investment. This is a great risk and we are fighting as an economic staff, as a government, as soon as possible to have an investment grade. At the same time, do you want to see spread? There were two hundred and seventy - three units for your day, two hundred eight before the health crisis, one hundred sixty - nine today. And finally - I am sorry, Mr President, I am not going to make any other speech today - to close the chapter 2015-2018. In 2019, you will allow me to share it in the middle. But let's talk about 2015-2018, exclusively with SYRIZA government. In 2015-2018 - to close these things - Greece had the lowest rate of growth among all eurozone countries. We had an average rate of growth of 0.5%, with an average rate of 2.1% in the Eurozone. That is, he was three times Greece. When the others accelerated, Greece was a pig. Secondly, in 2015-2018 the country's GDP increased by 2%. The Eurozone was 8.6%. We're talking four times over. It was Greece's biggest difference from any other Member State. The available individual income increased from 7,680 to 7,875, i.e. +2,5%. At the same time in the Eurozone it was 10.5%. In other words, when the whole of Europe went forward, we were a piggyback. Now that Europe is shrinking, Greece is coming forward. That's the big difference. In 2014, the actual per capita income was 71% of the European Union average. In 2018, it was 67%. In other words, in 2015-2018 the economic gap between Greece and Europe's average was opened. In 2015-2018 youth unemployment fell. But how did he fall? He fell into flexible forms of work. And especially you know that well. Unemployment has increased and declined by three percentage points over the last two years. I also present these tables for the Minutes. In 2015 - 2018 the economic climate was at the lowest level, the cost of borrowing high, the deposits have shrinked - they are currently plus 35 billion euros - the public investment programme collapsed, the competitiveness of the economy retreated, the non-performing loans have increased and the quality of the institutions has declined. And finally, this time - I know that my colleague has a weakness - twenty-nine new taxes have been imposed or increased, dutyfree, for which there were some commitments, if my memory is not cheating, capital restrictions have not been abolished - they have been abolished by this government in September 2019 - private debt has increased, tax evasion has increased, the middle class has been broken down and society has become poor. These are for your works and your days.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u194	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u195	Mr. Skourlet, excuse me, are we gonna do this job? Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u196	Mr President, for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u197	Oh, no. How's that gonna happen? Every time a Minister speaks, will the parliamentary representative take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u198	Mr President, it is customary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u199	It's not customary. What's it supposed to mean?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u200	It is customary, Mr President, but I will not do it every time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u201	That is what is happening today and we have eighty-nine speakers, that is to say, to reach the end of the seventh circle of speakers. I think there's some limits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u202	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u203	Let me give you a minute. Let me see if you'll keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u204	Mr Stavoura, first of all you refer to the country, as if it started after 2015. Before 2015, tell us how much the loan cost was? It's forbidden. Nobody loaned you because you went bankrupt. Secondly, you are talking about growth - at last you admit there were growth rates - when we lost 25% of our GDP from 2010 to 2015. We've had a continuing recession. Don't they have a signature? They don't have yours as space and yours, perhaps as a government official? As far as taxes are concerned, at the moment the planned increase in taxes, 3.5 billion, if I am not mistaken, has within 2.3 billion indirect taxes. Indirect taxes are not from growth. It's the taxes of accuracy. You know that very well. When the shelves eject coffee, oil, macaroni, legumes, up there you speculate through the indirect taxes. That's why popular inflation is far more than the average you're announcing. That's all. I don't want to continue to be consistent with the President, because I don't want to ruin his grace.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u205	Mrs. Silver Skondra has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today a top parliamentary procedure is taking place in plenary, which gives all wards an opportunity to place themselves on all matters, to table political positions, to welcome the manipulations or to criticise the government. In this genuine democratic process we are called upon to look at the facts and adopt next year's planning. So what have we experienced in the recent past? Where is the country today and where is it going? We have lived in the past two years a global health crisis, the pandemic of COVID, which has hit the whole world. For the first time in the history of humanity, it has been handbrained in everything, countries in lockdown, down rolls everywhere and people locked in their homes. This has cost the economies in the world very much. The trade and production processes have been frozen. The consequences are today that huge industries are suffering from severe shortages of raw materials, resulting in delays, a negative production balance and significant product undervalues. For Greece, the consequences, although severe, were not as dramatic as in other parts of the earth. Our tourism, despite the restrictive measures, was very good and the private sector received substantial financial support from the state budget for all inactive months. In 2022, the loss of GDP will be recovered and our economy will have a higher performance than the pandemic. We have already recorded growth rates in the past nine months almost 10%. In 2021 we recovered more than two thirds of the 2020 losses and in 2022 we will also exceed the 2020 GDP. Greece for the first time because of hard work, of course, went to the first absorption position of the NRP. The historical low loan cost, the early repayment of the IMF and the reduction of red loans mark our positive course. Ladies and gentlemen, these figures reflect reality and no one, however malicious they may be, can question them. What they do not reflect, however, is how we have come to measure the least wounds today. We have arrived because of the temptation, the brave, decisive and realistic policy that this government has conducted. At the difficult time we supported the country, professionals, producers, households. We have created the conditions for the quickest possible recovery of the economy. The Mitsotakis Government has implemented support measures of EUR 43.3 billion to keep the productive fabric upright and protect jobs. We are told that no one will be left alone in pandemic or natural disasters, and for us the political reason is a contract. And this, despite monotonous negligence, greedy populism, shallow politics and misinformation in which the Anti-Population was manipulated. Do you realize that the financial support package established by the government, money given to households and businesses, is in proportion to GDP the fourth largest worldwide since Italy, Germany and Japan? Our government continues, despite the global crisis, to reduce tax burdens. The SYRIZA who in four and a half years of his government imposed twenty-nine new taxes, made twenty reductions in pensions and increased contributions. Did you forget that you increased the income tax rates for natural and legal persons? Did you forget that you lowered the tax-free limit to 5,681 euros? The increase in VAT on goods and services from 13% to 24%? The abolition of tax exemptions for medical expenses and payroll tax reductions? The increase in tax on small and medium-sized enterprises to 100%, please? The increase of EVIA on the plots? The imposition of a tax on telecommunications and wine? Do you remember them? We, but most of all, have never forgotten them, as we do not forget in Karditsa that the Mitsotakis Government was on the side of the people affected by the 'January', supporting my fellow citizens and my prefecture with more than EUR 500 million directly and that unfortunately you voted against them all celebratingly. And that, Mr Voridis, was voted against by the opposition. You blame the government. What exactly? Because we reduced the corporate tax rate from 28% to 22%? Because we reduced the tax advance on the businesses that you raised? Because we reduced the tax deposit to professionals from 100% to 55%? Because we reduced the tax rate for natural persons from 22% to 9%? Because we exempted professionals and workers from the special solidarity levy? Because we extend the exemption in 2022 to those engaged in business, property owners and farmers? Because we cut HICPH down by 22%? Because we reduced private insurance contributions for 2021 and 2022 by three points? Are you going to blame us for raising the tax limit for parental benefits? Why have we extended the programme for the grant of household loans and the programme for the maintenance of jobs? Is it because we reduce the refund amount of all the advance returnables? Wait a minute, Mr. President. I'm done. Are you criticising us for overcompensating the ITH from five hundred and seventy-five in 2019 in a thousand three hundred today, why, at the same time, have we advanced the strengthening of the ESS with 12,000 nursing staff, two thousand permanent doctors and two thousand subsidiary doctors? Or are you accusing us of the exemplary implementation of the "LEVERIA" vaccination programme? In vain you are trying to get caught by circumstances and structure a opposition account. So with the increases in energy bills. Why don't you say that this is about the effects of an international energy crisis, which ejects invoices everywhere in the world? Our government has been pan-European since the first concrete measures to support 120 million euros and, if required, more will be added. We cover a significant part of the increases, with state subsidies for all electricity accounts, and we move on to a heating allowance with extended criteria, which is expected to cover 80% of households. But that is not of interest to you to say. We'll remind them of them, because responsible politics is to say things with their name. We implement with wisdom and bold reforms that turn Greece into a dynamic and extroverted economy. The budget does not contain austerity measures, because we do not believe them. On the contrary, with a network of protection for everyone, it leads to a relaunch of the labour market creating an environment that is competitive, green and extroverted. PERFECTS (George Lambroulis) Mrs. Skondra, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u207	By investing and by strengthening exports, we are changing the production model and speeding up steady growth rates. All the increased revenues will come from the relaunch of our national economy. We are therefore unreservedly voting for him. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u208	Yannis Delis has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we think it is enough to look at your budget figures. Its underfunding continues. The money for this year is the same as last year. There are many years and many governments who have been educating the poor relatives of government budgets. You see the urban state has other priorities: the financing of business groups and the expensive naval equipment. And everything a little after that gives it for the education, health and other needs of the people. This is the first and clear explanation of sub-financing. But there is one unseen, you know, side of this issue. This chronic state sub-funding of education is also becoming the tool, the lever for its merchandise. A trade in education which, on the territory of sub-funding, is increasingly expanding, the more ever the modern education needs of the children of the people's families are growing. Because needs are increasing, objectively. However, this commercialisation of education, which costs extremely expensive to the people, all your urban governments justifies it and try to hide it behind the famous 'business'. It is only by chance that in recent years a communication storm has fallen unstoppable on popular consciences about the benefits of entrepreneurship in education and the greater adaptation of education to the needs of businesses. Of course, we will have economic and ideological benefits. Capitalists, however, and their state, at the expense of, of course, the educational needs of the children of popular families. And so international organisations of the OECD type - this great love of SYRIZA! - - the government, the BSE, with passion and perseverance, various well-known institutions of capital - we are not saying - the minds of the system, even the republican authorities of universities have long been found and where they stand on this entrepreneurship in education they advertise and promote. Of course, to be fair, entrepreneurship in education has already started for some time now. It is now deepening and accelerating. Her results are already visible. Skills are constantly demanding, skills announce both the Ministry of Education and massively immediately introduce them into the school program, even from the kindergarten. On the other hand, SYRIZA should also remind the government and BSE that he was the first to officially put them in school, with his so-called thematic weeks. And give him the skills, life skills, soft skills, and it doesn't get together, flood the school schedules, and the pages of school books and new ones that come even more. And instead of the solid scientific knowledge of each lesson, this strong foundation of any critical thought, but also the means to understand and interpret the physical and social phenomena, instead of them, dominate the individual, the fragmentary, the past, the due date, in order only to ensure a satisfactory level of performance for employers at work and life. Instead of full - time education, then, skills for man, it is an executive multi-tool. And, of course, a knowledge of the dropper and costly when it is not distorted and falsified. I'm sorry, is this school you call it modern? So, really, you're going to develop the critical thinking of the children? Are you serious? All you're developing is reversal and boredom, in a school where art lessons - I'm passing away - have been dangerously reduced. The only thing you are developing - and you are developing it massively - is the new agrass - is the new agrassy! -, linguistic poverty and functional illiteracy. And as we said about art, culture, Minister, we still see a total symbolic participation in expenditure and this year's budget: 0.05%. And the workers to him, musicians, actors, artists and technicians see their lives getting worse, even abruptly, with the pandemic and a government staying only in the words of comfort, refusing to accept their demands that, with so many struggles, these workers claim. The poorer the content of this school - to go back to my theme - the more expensive you do this school, since of course you have taken care of it together New Democracy and SYRIZA with your laws to do so, an examination centre, competitive, exterminating for teenagers as we go to high school and after you have condemned - yes, you have condemned - thousands of teachers in occupational insecurity and an endless hunting of papers and certificates, trampling their degree with the Gabroglou law, which New Democracy is now exploiting. I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. In schools, however, it will not only apply to the teaching of entrepreneurs and businesses. And officially now schools will be able to run as business and schools will be able to book tickets for events and seminars, parks for their courtyards and bills for commercial uses of their rooms. And because you often ask us: Who told you that we want our schools, really, dried dugs? We schools want them open to parents, open to workers, real hives of learning, culture, sport, collective activities. That is why we are fighting for these schools to have modern infrastructure, and that is why we want them to be closed for businesses and entrepreneurs. Our children's schools aren't, you know, bishops, and we don't even see their parents as sponsors. For all this now, the business activities of schools: you want it. It's what you want, probably, and the evaluation of teachers. And for this assessment, the previous government of SYRIZA set up the legislative carpet, developing, as its unforgettable Minister said at the time, the culture of evaluation. But we should boil it up, because it doesn't just disguise parents, but it even degrades teachers, like those poor Americans who saw them in a video rolling on the floor for a handful of dollars for their school. Closed up for the universities, that's where entrepreneurship is now, and if it's moved on. Her results: Universities looking for resources, normally in sponsorships and funding, tuition almost everywhere in the postgraduate, expensive seminars, undergraduate conferences on payment - for foreign languages at first...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u210	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u211	I shall conclude, Mr President. ...and businesses within schools to make use of the infrastructure - please - of universities, with institutions putting the so-called investment risk and investors on the profits, by buying "bier than" the most up-to-date ideas - for technocrats we are talking about, the multi-advertised spin-off that many of the earlier provisions of a bill voted on them and SYRIZA. Thus, huge staff shortages are being created, student care disappears, diplomas are being degraded in paper-free. Ultimately, we're talking about the university that works for the modern needs of society. You, everyone else, talk about a university that first puts the needs of big business and their profits. In this budget, of course, all your policy is finally being mirrored and with this budget, as is the case with all the previous ones, all the inspiringness of your strategy is revealed. The fight is a one-way road. You'll be reminded by tomorrow's rallys. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u212	Mr Themistoklis Himaras will now have the floor from New Democracy. Mr Papapas will be followed by SYRIZA, then Mr. Amyras, the Deputy Minister of Environment and Energy, will take the floor, after Mrs. Papadimitriou and Mrs. Alexopoulou, to conclude the fourth cycle. You have the floor, Mr. Himara.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the budget for 2022, the third submitted by the Government of New Democracy, gives the signal of economic planning, composes and reflects the country's financial guidelines and priorities. Its orientation marks the relaunch of the economy and is characterised by a strong social dimension. In the context of a precarious environment for budgetary forecasts, I believe that this is a budget of conservative estimates. According to EUROSTAT data for the euro area, our country has recorded inflation rates below average, better performance in reducing unemployment and better performance in developing quarterly with 13.4%. This suggests that the conditions are met so that the compressed spring of the Greek economy can be liberated and developed in 2022. The main forecasts for drafting the budget are based on the assumption that no significant additional financial intervention will be required next year due to the health crisis. This year's economic map of the state, like the previous ones, serves consistently the philosophy of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis for social sensitivity, structural reforms and tax relief. Expansionisting and, at the same time, prudent fiscal policy shielded the country's economy, despite the difficult macro-economic environment. Achieving this difficult project is the result of choosing the appropriate mix of economic policy. The planning and implementation of a support package have resulted in increased savings, lower unemployment and an improvement in the business climate. The channelling of huge liquidity over 40 billion has been gradually implemented, targeted and using the available financial space. The new budget for 2022, like the previous one, does not include new taxes, on the contrary, provides for reductions in tax burdens. The forecast for the increase in tax revenues is the only basis for the Greek economy's upward, developmental course. To date, the extension of the 'GEOFYRA' and 'CONSULA' programmes has created an important social protection net, while at the same time the funding received by small and medium-sized enterprises has exceeded 10 billion euros. The Government has taken the measures to support society from the effects of the energy crisis. It applies a grid of interventions to cover part of the energy increases, as well as emergency aid. Public health expenditure will be increased and in 2022. The political myopia of the Officer's counterpopulation is also confirmed in this field. This year's budget is the vehicle that will lead us from the recovery of 2021 to sustainable development in the coming years and a fair distribution of benefits to all Greeks. It will make a decisive contribution to this, and the fact that our country is turning into an attractive investment destination and a high-tech investment hub. This development offers a technological lead in important sectors of production and is expected to boost employment by creating high added-value jobs. To fill the investment gap and change the production model, it is a necessary treaty to strengthen the credit expansion of banks, especially now, following the development of financial instruments that reduce the credit risk. The road to achieving increased growth in the economy in the long term goes through improving productivity, competitiveness and outward-lookingness and not by increasing public consumption due to support measures. Uncertainties about the development perspective arise from external risks. Climate change is one of the factors, due to the impact of natural disasters on the economy. The effects of climate change relate to increasing the number and intensity of extreme weather phenomena. At the same time, the government has provided European funds for cohesion and development policies: the Recovery Fund, the NSRF of the new programming period 2021-2027 and the new CFP will exceed EUR 70 billion. We will not lose - and we must not lose - this financial opportunity and we will effectively manage the resources available. At the same time, preparing for the adoption of the first state-owned green bond in 2022 confirms that our Government and, of course, the financial staff have a strategy and a plan. Measures to increase the availability of income include a reduction in tax burden, a package of support measures to extend the exemption from the special solidarity levy, a reduction in income tax for natural and legal persons, a reduction in HPAI, an increase in the minimum wage, a reduction in the tax rate for businesses and, of course, a reduction in the advance tax. Increase the tax rate for parental benefits, targeted measures of low VAT rate on mass consumption products and on animal production. Reduction by three units of insurance contributions. Double the minimum guaranteed income for December. Reimbursement of excise duty on diesel for farmers. The Government of New Democracy has not imposed a single new tax and we are critical of the guardians of populism, who have had overtaxation as a central economic policy. It is a political initiative of the government to create the conditions to continue and accelerate structural reforms and interventions. It is clear that the government has the responses both to tomorrow's challenges and threats, with the consistency and responsibility that is required. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u214	Next speaker, Mr. Pappas Nikolaos, from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that a limit should also be introduced to the attempt to revise modern economic history at the place, because we heard before Mr Staikoura, who described us as a situation in which, if anyone listened to him who did not live in Greece, he would think that the crisis started in 2015. All right, there's a limit to the political debate. Greece between 2010 and 2014 lost a million jobs and 2015 to 2019 won around four hundred and fifty thousand. I do not think we need to repeat this every time we get to the Step. There's a logic. It is not creative for political controversy and Mr Stagioras himself has responsibility as a member of those governments. And I would say that the majority Members must make an effort to get in touch with reality. Do you realize what happened yesterday? The study by Mr Chiorda and Mr Lytras was published. Gifts of Aegeris told you earlier. So what does this study say? This study says non-ATP tubes have 87% more chance of dying. It says practically from the four hundred tubes and from the intensive care unit our system is no longer functional because the possibility of death is exponentially increased. He says something else behind the lines, of course. Be careful, it shows that for the study period six and a half thousand people have died without insulation, either within or outside the ICU. Mr. Hatzidakis and Mr. Amyras, because Mr. Tsiodras, who was from the start of choosing your government, with his partner, said that they have given this study at the highest level, I would like to ask you honestly whether you personally had this study taken into consideration since May, as the researchers said, or if you know whether Mr. Mitsotakis had taken it into consideration, to understand and if he didn't just pay attention, did not meet Chiorda, he did not take it or if he did go up to this Step and he did lie with unscientificly, which are not going anywhere and which is affecting the Greek citizen, who is experiencing the consequences of the pandemic. If you really think that these will stay unanswered, you are making a huge mistake, as you are making a huge mistake that will save you from turning right and left and saying that "METH is luxury" and "what we will do if we develop them when the pandemic is gone", that "it's thrown money" and, of course, if you thought you would not give answers to the key questions that you have put with proof, as we have learned today, before the Ice Authority and the association of workers in public hospitals. I hope you will not blame us or blame them for being partyly involved and receiving orders from Kumbuduru and SYRIZA to do this show no longer in public, but also in the face of justice, with evidence, with proof. At the same time, while you have a budget that has the specific features, the choice of inertia in public transport continues. Citizens are forced to move in an undetermined crowd, they have filled the internet with photos and videos of a push for boarding and disembarking, and what the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport does is to spend the public money to take "shoes" which they are digging in the climbing up of Chortiatis or even in the block here in the Attica Region and ordering gloves from a float in Serres. This is your state, along with the freezing of all major works and of the BOAK and the Patras - Pyrgos and the metro of Thessaloniki where only claims for the contractor have been made by your policy and the destruction of the shocking monument in Venizelos. You can't even think that this sector could really be a way out for the national economy, which you obviously don't want. The small and medium-sized enterprises have left them out of all the financial instruments both in the first phase and in this phase outside the Recovery Fund. It's not something you missed, it's something you choose. And as I told you before, you need to get in touch with reality. I'm sorry, Mr. Skokakis isn't here, and I'm sorry, because I think he could give a clarification. Mr. Skylakakis said a few days ago that they're making a budget with the working case that pandemic is over at the beginning of 2022. Please open the internet a little bit now and see the publications that have been uploaded an hour ago by announcing today's cases and deaths. What's the worry? That the "Omicon" mutation will dominate Greece as well. What do you have to say about all this? That you're reducing the health budget for 800 million. That's your answer. How do you feel? I would like to address the majority Members. How do you feel? You have the political leadership of the Ministry of Finance by this Stepma says: "We have built a budget with the case of work that pandemic is over." It is not just with the news notes of your leadership to reproduce some arguments here and not to take into account what is going on around. Let me now turn to the issue of surpluses to conclude. It's false that you don't commit to high surpluses. You are committed to the greatest austerity in Europe until 2024. Unfortunately, Greece is a champion. Greece of 25%-28% cumulative recession is a champion in austerity. You are a bad example of Europe's course. You are not taking any initiative in the debate that has been opened for the revision of the Stability Pact, which Romano Prodi prophetically said in 2002 was foolish, like any inflexible rule. And, of course, you contribute to regenerating a path for Europe that has maximised inequalities both within the union and within societies. I conclude with this. This period has two characteristics. The first is that the New Democracy, and with the presence of Mr.Mitsotakis at the ICU, but also with the current budget, proves that it does not have an economic programme that can respond to the great needs of society and the enormous disparities that you create with your inaction in the issues of accuracy, both with your policy and in the insurance and labour and small and medium-sized enterprises. The second important thing, however, I think, is that Mr Mitsotakis is the first Prime Minister in the history of post-population, rather early, who has admitted publicly that from the next poll cannot form a government. That's what he told us at the DEA. We welcome this assumption, the assumption of your isolation policy, which is precisely the central condition that you have covered yourself and we welcome it to emerge from the next call a strong progressive governance that will lay the foundations for a new beginning for the country and the people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u216	We shall now give the floor to the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Amyras. Then, as we have said, Mrs Papadimitriou and Mrs Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Pappas has just called on Mr Chiodra to tell us what he said. What's going on, Mr. Pappas, don't you talk to Mr. Polakis? Do you have a different view from Mr. Polakis?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u218	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u219	Pavlos Paulakis, 5 November 2020 - listening to Mr Tsiodra's scientific communications: 'What are the things we have heard today by Mr Tsiodra? What scientific dolphins are these, my lords and my lords?" So do you invoke Mr. Chiodra when Mr. Paulakis excavated him? So you're not going to tell each other a little bit and have a single line? And if that's not enough for you, this shitty and vulgar style at the expense of Mr. Tsiodra, on October 21st, says again, addressing Mr. Tsiodras Paulakis: "Sotiras also came out to keep a lantern at Mitsotakis with mathematical alchemy of a merciful form. You should be ashamed of yourself," he says. Who should be ashamed, of course, is self-proof.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u220	Quiet, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u221	Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget, the third budget planned and implemented by the Mitsotakis Government, shows that the country has entered a developmental path. SYRIZA's customary from the make news, possibly from the denial of reality. Besides, I remember, Mr. Pappa, you said, before the pandemic broke out, that the year would end with a recession before the pandemic even appeared. Now that the year is going to close with growth of 7%, maybe 8% or even cumulative growth of 11.7% in the 2021-2022 years, what do you have to say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u222	What happened to 2020?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u223	Why are you negative of reality? Why are you denying the truth? We need to inoculate you with the vaccine of the truth. Government policy, as clearly appears in the government's budget, is clearly changing the DNA of the economy, society, public health, entrepreneurship, the state. We for the first time, the country I mean is not Europe's Euro pean but is coming forward. And in relation to the environment, the Mitsotakis Government is doing a lot about the issue of protecting the environment and protecting biodiversity. The Prime Minister himself from Glasgow, from the climate summit, COP26, announced a flagship work, inaccurate mountains. We are protecting six large mountainous volumes of the country, where neither new roads or old ones are to be used or opened, nor artificial platforms will be built, so that what Europe has been discussing for many years and has not dared to do so, what the United States of America has taken twenty years to implement, that is, the off-road areas, we are moving forward and doing so first in Europe. Tomorrow I also inform you that the first three specific environmental studies for the NATURA regions are coming out for consultation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u224	Does "TERNA" know?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u225	I am talking about the specific environmental studies, which you have certainly kicked them out and kept them hidden under the table. So I would like you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, to join the consultation, to participate in the consultation. So tomorrow you will be able, instead of shouting, to tell us what your position is to protect NATURA in Eastern Crete, Evros, Rodopi and the southern Peloponnese. We want to protect these areas, and that is what we are doing. The first step is taken with specific environmental studies leading to the presidential decrees to ensure the protection of NATURA 2000 sites in Eastern Crete directly. That is where we are very much interested in the Vai palm tree, which has one of the two indigenous palm species in Europe. We are interested in protecting the Lassithi plateau, the canyon of Agia Peace, which is of the highest ecological value. We are interested in Evros and Rhodope to protect the forest of Dadia. We are interested in protecting the only population in Europe and colony in black and white. We are interested in protecting Samothrace - and this is what we are doing - with its endemic margarita and with the thousands of four hundred forty-one endemic and acclimatized plants. We are interested - and this is what we are doing - in protecting the Evros Delta, where thousands of birds find shelter and food. I expect to see your own villages in the national consultation, if you disagree with what I say, which are reflected in specific environmental studies, which, as I have said, will lead to the presidential decrees for the absolute protection of these areas. At the same time, in the southern Peloponnese we are interested in the regions of Taygeto, in southern Mani, in the canyon of Nedon, with the unexplored and rare riches of the flora. At the same time, we are in the final straight line of the country, the only one in Europe without forest maps and a tariff, to obtain forest maps. You laugh, of course, because they were laughing at what you had done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u226	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u227	We have been inherited by forest maps, which have of course been taken down by the Plenary Assembly of the Council of State.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u228	He's still there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u229	I would like, Madam President, that you are very happy with these comments you make, to go and tell one of the hundreds of seventy-five thousand citizens who objected to the sloppiness of your forest maps. So what do we do? We're doing reforms. The reforms are that we have first of all taken out the white man from the forest equation with the agreement, the unanimous decision and the opinion of the Technical Forests Council. We solved the major property with the presumption of ownership in favour of the public, where? In eastern and western Mani, which you did not even notice, in Dodecanese, in Ionian, Crete, in the islands of the northern Aegean. Of course these are insignificant for you. The world arrived in the courts, was troubled for twenty years, they were entitled at the end, but for you it rains. So the forest maps of the whole year and the first months, we will have finally arrived to have dominated forest maps for nearly 95% of the land. Another thing I would like to see in the House when we will soon bring the regulations and regulations for the land for the rescued fields, that is, the fields which in 1945, with the aerial photographies and orthophot maps, appeared and were agricultural, cultivationable, and then due to the police, because of the immigration, many of them were abandoned and looted. Do I want to see whether you will vote for this provision by which we are going to restore the designation in the cultivating land? We want young farmers, we want them to have new cultivation methods, to have modern crops of high export value, and I would like to see your vote there. Now you're not laughing? You're not laughing. Let's go down. Transport of forestry services. Forestry services are a great reform, what the Mitsotakis Government does. It's a big reform. When do you ask, my colleague? When? Where were you? Four and a half years, weren't you government? What did you do? You have left the forest services, the decentralized administrations too, to be troubled by the world as well. Will you vote for this reform? Will you vote for it? Well, they come with us vertically, in the Ministry of the Environment, that is, as regional services, to give weight mainly to the prevention of forest fires and the management of the country's forest wealth, to the benefit of ecosystems, habitats and biodiversity in general. We also have the national reafforestation plan, which I hope you will have a consensus on. National reafforestation Plan: Funded by the Recovery Fund with EUR 200 million. We will plant - and I will tell you when - immediately 20 million trees, broad leaves and leaves, we will make mixed zones with trees that are fire-resistant to the fire around the settlements and I hope you will also come with us. So I invite you to come together to the first pilot reafforestation that will take place within the next few days, in Parnitha, in Agia Triada and Buffy, to an extent of thirty-eight acres, with twenty-seven thousand head-olive plants from the public nursery of the Parnitha National Park. In Drasiza, again with 16,000 sixteen thousand headly plants, again in Parnitha, again from the public nursery. In Rhodope, the Singh region, in the Smigada area, in the public forest of Organic, an area of seventy acres to an area of thirty - three thousand six hundred black pine trees. In the Perma of Attica, five hundred eighteen acres burned and burned again and planted nothing. Also in western Macedonia, Siatista, Kozani, Platania. That's just the beginning. It is only the beginning, with Greek scientists, with Greek seeds, who are genetically controlled one by one. To short, one of the greatest reforms in relation to the protection of the natural environment was made by the Hatzidakis Act, with Law No.4685, with the Organisation for the Natural Environment and Climate Change, which, under its cover, takes over the old management bodies of protected areas. Some of these bodies, the eight, Mr President, had only boards and not a single worker, a patent of SYRIZA. The first seven bodies, which are incorporated into the Olympus, are Parnithas, are the rope and the Saronic Gulf, it is Delta Evros, it is Lefkimni, Dadia and Samothrace, it is of northern Pindos. Over the next few days, the former management bodies of Lake Pambotidas in Ioannina, Coronia-Bolbia, the Lake Kerkin and the Thermaikos Gulf are integrated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u230	Mr. Undersecretary, please, finish it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u231	I shall conclude, Mr President. In conclusion, we are soon building a national network with hospitals for wild animals, mainly for the orphanage. NGOs are doing it by themselves now, helpless. We're finally building the network. We found the area, forty-two acres, in the Penteli Rapentossa. There is a wonderful stone-floor building, and instantly, we make it and the NGOs will operate, with our own support and support. The same will be done in Dodoni, Epirus, and the same will be done in Thessaloniki. I conclude, Mr President. At the time when we are talking with the Greek scientists about the action plans for the brown bear, for the rosemary, for the Mediterranean seals, for sands, for endemic plants, for over thirty important species of flora and fauna. Also, at last, after an unrest of many years, the Greek state is finally taking steps for the metachromatic ulcer of the planet. Plates are disappearing, they are also part of the history that we all have to play for the retention of the banks and territories, and we have an action plan through the FYROM that we put into practice. I conclude, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u232	But come on! You come up with...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u233	I'm done now, Mr. President. Well, we also put forward - and there I would like to see what you will do if you vote for it, if you support it - another ambitious programme of the Ministry of the Environment, the so-called 'thousand virgin beaches'. Thousand beaches throughout Greece where neither electricity nor roads nor betsobara nor anything will be allowed. So the budget tells everyone what it really believes in the natural environment and biodiversity. We will stand, as we do, against the regression that you have brought. We build the new Greece. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u234	Before giving the floor to the next speaker, Mrs Papademiou, Mrs Giannakopoulou, the KINAL Parliamentary spokesman. Is that three minutes enough, my colleague?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u235	Thank you very much, Mr President. Two minutes at most simply because it has almost monopolized the positions of both Members of Parliament, but, as the ministers seem, the question of the list of Mr Tsiodra's study with Mr Lytra is on the table. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, it is true - no one can deny it - that the situation with regard to pandemic has escaped. Yesterday we had a black record, we had a negative record from the beginning of the pandemic, with a hundred thirty dead, and in this way the worst scenarios are confirmed, with which the number of dead will continue to be high, despite a reduction in cases. Why is this done, Ministers? It's because, unfortunately, you've been too late to take action. The measures have come too late, despite the calls of experts, scientists for a long time. And the result is increasing cases and thus creating a suffocating pressure on the National Health System. In this context, therefore, ladies and gentlemen, both Vice-Presidents, but above all, Mr Ministers, the Tsiodra and Lytra report, unfortunately, does not come to surprise us. Why does he say? It tells us what common sense says: The higher the pressure on the ESS, the less the quality of care for the nurses, so, yes, there are more victims. We knew it, Minister. We knew it, we warned you, and we were talking about criticising, and we asked for a real increase in the ESS and for proper staffing of ITH beds with experienced and skilled staff. But once again you're late. That's why we're telling you, yes, they need measures. Even more, even greater, even substantial reinforcement of the National Health System, which is subordinated, which is staffed with staff who have not been able to train properly under these exceptional circumstances or is completely exhausted. Mostly - and I say this, with the whole Delegation - what is needed is for all of us to stand up for the vaccination. This is the number one medicine to treat coronary and pandemic. It is the only way to put an end to the adventure, to send all of us a clear message: 'Get in now'. This is the debt and responsibility of the entire National Representation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u236	It is now Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy. Mrs Alexopoulou will be followed by the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Hatzidakis. You have the floor, Mrs. Papadimitriou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the major challenges and the uncertainty of the global economic crisis by the New Democracy Government has demonstrated a plan, wisdom and effectiveness, protecting, above all, public health, but also by keeping the economy and society up, by simplifying a protection net for workers and businesses, but also by moving forward with important development reforms. The results of this successful policy are more than optimistic and are reflected in figures that are not in dispute. In particular, growth is constantly upwards and according to EUROSTAT figures, Greece records the highest growth rate throughout the eurozone in the third quarter. Unemployment has declined significantly since 16.5% in September 2020 to 13% in September of this year and is expected to be even further declining. Exports are constantly increasing both over the next two years, the increase will be the largest pan-European. Great investments, the colossal of the global economy now operates in our country, such as "MICROSOFT", "AMAZON", "PFIZER" and today, "DEUTSCHE TELEKOM", after meeting the Prime Minister, announced that more than 3 billion euros were invested in our country. And the most important consequence of all these investments is that our children, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerate, the children of the generation of Brain Drain, who left. This is not a theoretical construction. We all know that. We know that children from the countries of Europe are working at PFIZER in Thessaloniki. The above figures show that our economy is now in a growth path. The 2022 budget, which is based on the priorities of the Government for social justice, for a state of modern and digital, is also served for a productive model of ‘green’ and extroverts. The 2022 budget does not include any new tax, it increases no existing one. On the contrary, it provides for significant tax reductions. I would point out that, first of all, the exemption from the Special Solidarity Contribution, which will benefit private workers, farmers and professionals. Secondly, the reduction in insurance contributions by three units in the private sector. Thirdly, the reduction of the tax rate for legal persons from 24% to 22%. Fourthly, the reduction of the refund amount for the company’s repayable advances. This is some of the measures with a major objective of increasing the income of all Greek households. And, of course, we must not overlook the fact that the economic model of reducing the taxes applied by the government has the strongest deflational impact. A central role, of course, in the great effort of the Government to develop the national economy will be the implementation of the plan for the absorption of resources from the Recovery Fund. The EUR 31 billion that will be invaded by state funds is the result of coordinated actions by the government, but also of a personal success by Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis, who took the lead among European leaders. Ladies and gentlemen, two of the main pillars of the national economy are tourism and the primary sector, the growth levers and the special country of Pieria. The tourism sector, our heavy industry, which has been tested as few of the pandemic, has been kept up with the support and initiatives of the government that protected the workers, but has also supported financially and tourist businesses. The National Recovery and Resilience Plan provides for interventions to promote thematic tourism, mountain tourism, health tourism and already the bill discussed these days in Parliament is moving in the same direction. Also very important is the extension of the reduced VAT to the tourist package planned for the first half of 2022. Similarly, such support was provided by the Government in the primary sector. It stood by the rural world with tax reductions and insurance contributions. Exclusion from the trade fee, non-additional ENPI and payment of aid to our farmers affected by the consequences of the pandemic. Primary support will continue in 2022, with measures such as a low tax rate of 10% for agricultural cooperatives, a VAT of 6% for animal feed, as well as the return of the Special Tax on oil for young farmers and farmers - members of agricultural cooperatives, which the SYRIZA Government had abolished. Minister, at this point I would like to stress that it is very important for the primary sector to be further supported, mainly because this will bring in valuable funds from abroad, as many agricultural products are exportable. And because my country, Pieria, is a rural area, with quality agricultural products, an area that produces and exports, I am sure our Government will support Greek producers so that they become even more competitive on international markets. And an instrument, Minister, is also a reduction in production costs and of course helps reduce agricultural oil and income taxes. However, because rural activity is the most exposed to uncertain factors, particularly such as the climate crisis and the extreme weather phenomena, we must support our farmers further with brave measures. For example, with the reduction in the cost of agricultural supplies, a measure which will legally reduce the total cost of production and achieve the result of the competitiveness of our producers. In addition to the above, it is necessary to rationalise the resources of the new CAP in products which constitute brand name for Greece. For example, I will mention the ray, a top and dynamic export product of Pierre, with a huge perspective. In conclusion, I firmly believe that support for the primary sector is central. It is a foundation for the national economy, regional development, but also for the prosperity of the whole country. Ladies and gentlemen, I am voting for the 2022 budget, a budget which marks a change in Greece, which is developing, a budget that sets the foundations for a better future. Because as a well-known English poet, “the future is not a gift, it is an achievement.” Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u238	Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou has the floor from the Greek Solution. Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u239	Ladies and gentlemen, this budget is the second period of pandemic and the twelfth since the first memorandum. In other words, it is another budget for the crisis, which tends to become permanent in our homeland. That is why they are not wrong for those who speak of the lost generation, but also for the death spiral of the Greek economy, with so many years of crisis loaded on the backs of the Greek people. How do you, in the government, claim that the economy is going well and that we are heading for growth, while the accuracy is scoring, wages are squeezing, unemployment remains high? You are talking about a socially fair budget, but from your budget, we see that tax revenues are hitting a ceiling of EUR 50 billion, increased by 3.5 billion compared with last year. They are indirect taxes which, in simple terms, means that people's income is being beaten, citizens' pockets are being emptied and the famous housekeeper's basket is empty. In fact, you haven't heard there in the government that inflation has again made its appearance threatening and it's already getting to 5% and it's beginning. A minister said recently that he can't see prices rising. Looks like we're shopping in different places, Minister. You make your purchases elsewhere. Because all of us going to the supermarkets, we see the rise of prices in all products and the agony of the world as to whether it will get through all these anti-grass measures that you are still taking, while the health crisis is peaking. This whole situation, together with government oligopoly, inevitably works at the expense of vulnerable social groups that remain unprotected. Where is the famous network of protection for disabled people or pensioners or households who are proven to be within the limits of poverty? To show you that all the Greek people really can get through, I'll bring you an example. Keep HNVIA in the real estate and disguise what's left of the Greeks. At EUR 2.5 billion is estimated in the budget for the revenues from HNPH and many say about the northern suburbs of Athens, my region, but do you know there how many people are diagnosed by HNPH with closed operations? This is also true in Philadelphia and Metamorphosis and Galachi and New Ionia. We are talking about people who have been deeply hit by the crisis, people who have lost business and property, but now they also have to pay HISBIA. Where? But how will the national economy be reconstructed when the government beats these people unrelentingly when it does not give any incentive to relaunch our economy? And when these dramatic events occur in the northern suburbs, imagine what is happening to weak social groups, which the government's hard neoliberal policy has essentially been written out from the horizon. How will all these people, gentlemen, live in government, when every day the economy shrinks, when one crisis hits the other, and when you take more and more measures? We have clearly reached the point where many of our fellow humans are considered unnecessary by the elite, a social burden that is slowly exterminated in an indirect way, through all the most brutal economic policies. And you know what I'm saying, it's not just theoretical shapes. They remind a lot of what had happened in Russia in the 1990s in Yeltsin. There was then a twin of hard neoliberal politicians, Andar and Chubai, who under the pretext of supposed reforms, had led their people to the margin, poverty and death. The infamous doctrine of shock, the very poor were wiped out and the sometimes small - mediumd ones became neo-poverts. Finally, this programme was abolished as a total failure, since it did not bring the saving of the economy but rather. Does the New Democracy Government have such standards for our country? Let's talk a little bit with numbers. It is a budget that reduces social benefits by EUR 50 million and the financing of public hospitals by 139 million, as well as by EUR 140 million, the funding of primary health care is also reduced. Yes, health costs are falling, no matter how unbelievable in the middle of a pandemic! How can we then talk about social policy? For the numbers I said, I'm filing the documents in the minutes. Ladies and gentlemen, we in the Greek Solution have pointed out from the start - if you will - that it is another management budget without seeming anywhere to change the failed economic model, which has led us to bankruptcy, and we have warned of the dangers posed to our economy while it moves away from the real source of development that is just one, our primary national wealth. First, minerals, underground. Secondly, marine wealth. Third farms, farms. Fourth, ports, airports, road network. Fifth, spatial planning, crafts or industrial parks. Six, water and electricity. They are nationally necessary goods for the Greek people. That's the only way we're going forward, ladies of the government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u240	The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs now has the floor, Mr Hatzidakis. And then the Minister will start with the fifth circle of speakers. The first speaker is Mr Dermenzopoulou from New Democracy. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, you will be listening to me as well. I'm rushing to say I'm stuck with the kid these days. But I've done enough rapid tests as well as PCR. The last PCR I did it two, three hours before I came here to be okay. Because we all have a responsibility to the others too. Ladies and gentlemen, these days I have listened to the Opposition in particular, a key effort is to degrade the social features of our budget and general social policy. Of course it doesn't surprise me. That's been doing almost business for two and a half years. But this attempt is in clear contrast with reality. For all that I shall say, I shall invoke information which exists within the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs' own budget. I would stress three basic parameters. Firstly, the significant increase in the funds for social policy despite what the opposition is saying. Secondly, the positive and measurable results we have achieved in this area, which are reflected in the clear reduction in unemployment. And thirdly, a series of changes that will take place in 2022 and which will have a positive reflection on the workers, on the unemployed in the poorest sections of society. I am starting with the significant increase in funds. The planned expenditures of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for 2022 amount to EUR 21.6 billion. Even if we remove the measures for the coronary for 2022, I mean, costs amount to EUR 20.8 billion. If we go now to 2019, in other words to the budget prepared by SYRIZA, the expenditure was then EUR 18.9 billion. It is now almost two billion more than the government was SYRIZA. So where do you see the reduction? We have an increase - if you account for it - of 10%. How do you measure social policy? What you do is good and what we are bad is just because we do it, even if the funds are more. So let us learn to say even the truth. The increase I am speaking about is reflected in all the individual policies of the Ministry of Labour, both in labour market policies and in the policies of insurance funds, welfare and equality. In pensions, for example, there will be an increase in expenditure of EUR 316 million, mainly due to the award of pensions outstanding from previous years. There will be acceleration and it will be recorded in the budget. In OPEKA we will have an increase in the family allowances, the allowances of disabled people, the funds for school meals and the other programmes totalling EUR 58 million, and there will also be a new allocation of EUR 100 million for the payment of housing allowances by the HRKA, as set out in the debt code and a second chance for the borrowers that this government has voted for. The numbers speak for themselves. And that is why it would be good before one has formally spoken from this Step to see instantly what is recorded in the budget and making comparisons. We're not going anywhere. I now go to the second part of my speech to underline that our policy, which you so accustomed to, has already begun to produce clear results in the social sphere. What do I mean? Firstly, with the over EUR 9 billion measures for the coronary for three million workers and unemployed we supported people who have been in great need and have maintained jobs in a time of great crisis. Whoever disputes this may come to prove otherwise. Secondly, by reducing insurance contributions by 3.9 points, which reduced the non-wage costs of enterprises and increased the workers' income. These are measures that are in place and reflect workers beyond business. Thirdly, with the intervention of the Labour Protection Act, in which we followed what is being done in the advanced European countries - and again, let anyone who believes the opposite come to prove it at some point - by combining the objective of strengthening competitiveness with the objective of real protection of workers, by regulating on the one hand, such as strengthening overtime on the European average, increasing the sectors that are allowed to operate on Sundays in accordance with European standards and reducing the administrative burden for businesses by simplifying the 'ERGAN'. All of this serves the objective of competitiveness. On the other hand, with regulations on the digital card, which will accurately and in real time measure workers' working hours, the new greater parental leave which is already a reality on the labour market, the measures against violence and harassment at work, the new rights of self-employed delivers and courier workers, the equilibrium on the payroll of workers with those of employees in the event of redundancies. All these policies, together with the fiscal measures of the Ministry of Finance and increasing the minimum wage, have the effect of strengthening the income available to workers who are paid the minimum wage from EUR 305 to EUR 534 per year. We have presented the evidence and have never been questioned. However, also the government's overall economic policy, tax, licensing, insurance and labour policy have led to the reduction of unemployment from 17.2% received by SYRIZA in July 2019 to 13% last September. The decline in unemployment by four percentage points during this period is, according to EUROSTAT, the highest reduction among the countries of the European Union. So you blame us for our social policy and we answer you with work. We are responding to the increase in the availability of workers, the reduction in unemployment and the increase in social costs, and this year's budget, in relation to the one we received. On the one hand we have great words, and on the other hand, we have social policy in practice. And because it is timely, I cannot bear any attention to what I saw on the Internet yesterday, it is widely circulated anyway: SYRIZA's employees are denounced by SYRIZA as seeking volunteers, but it is recruiting managers at high pace and noting that since 2014, the wages of SYRIZA have been cut by 1/3 and jobs, mainly due to departures, have been reduced by 1/4. I would therefore ask that when you come and act as prosecutors have previously checked what is going on in your home. I am referring to evidence, there is also the relevant statement by the workers. If you want, disprove them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u242	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u243	Then, for our part, we continue our efforts and 2022 on many different fronts. Firstly, by making better use of the resources of the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF. We have 5 billion at our disposal, which will respond to the needs of the workers, the unemployed, the disabled, our weakest fellow citizens, the many programmes that we have already presented for training, the creation of new jobs for vulnerable social groups, disabled people, mothers and young people. Secondly, with the implementation of the digital working card, which is a guarantee for workers' working hours, and the establishment of the new Independent Labour Inspectorate ensuring independence of controls. Thirdly, with the new bill that will soon be presented, the modernization of the OAED and of the training system in Greece is presented in order not to waste resources and to make training an essential contribution to the future of the workers and the unemployed. Fourthly, with the new Social Security Fund, the EEKA, as a result of the social security reform for the new generation, which introduces individual "coops" to youth supplementary pensions and creates the conditions to receive supplementary pensions that are, as the European experience shows, greater for young people than 43% to 68%. Fifth, with the disability card for a hundred and eighty thousand disabled people, but also with the institution of the "personal assistant" initially for a thousand people with heavy disabilities. Both are demands of the wheelchair movement. Sixth, with the "Neighbourhood dads" programme for the storage of infants between two and two and a half years old in areas where there is no high density of nurseries. This is a programme coming from advanced European countries. And with the program for a hundred and twenty units of childcare within large businesses for two and a half thousand infants and infants, so that mothers can have their children at work. Seven, improving the service of the citizen. I stand out for the single number '1555', in which more than seven hundred thousand calls have been made so far in less than five months with an immediate response rate of 85%. Eighth, you're trying to retire. 2021 will be a record year in the adoption of pension decisions, as at the end of November we have already exceeded the two thousand pension awards. I would remind you that last year the decisions were made for a hundred and sixty thousand pension cases and, in 2019, for a hundred thirty thousand cases, while next year we will go even better, because we have put in place the necessary mechanisms and by the end of the first half of 2022, we will resolve the question of outstanding main pensions in respect of overtime. Ninth, the EKKA Modernisation Bill and efforts to award outstanding pensions and better service through '1555' of course are not enough. We want to lay solid foundations for the effective upgrading of the functioning of the most problematic public administration. The new management methods we introduce will make the daily lives of the employees themselves easier on the one hand, but also the lives of the six and a half million insured who owe nothing to be afflicted by public administration for decades. The defence of citizens is a social policy. Tenth, I come to the minimum wage, because I heard criticism, too. It was reported that significant increases have been reported in other countries, while Greece has not. Search the data and you will see that in most cases the increases were very low. There are only twenty-two of the twenty-seven countries of the European Union. In the six countries of the Eurozone, they have given increases below what we gave last year, which was indeed small, symbolic, as Prime Minister 2% said, and only seven have given relatively larger increases. But, as we have already made clear, this decision was taken with contrasting suggestions from the whole employer, including the small and medium-sized ones, both from the Bank of Greece and from the EIC, and was given precisely because we wanted to send a message, that the workers are on priority for us. As you know, from now on, the economy has been on positive ground in relation to growth, and that is why the government has decided that it will begin the process once the time has changed and there will be all the required process that will end with a recommendation from the Minister of Labour to the Ministerial Council, which will obviously take into account the rate of growth and the need for workers to see a social dividend in their pockets. This will disprove once again your slogans and your allegations, for which Mr Stagioras has already given you a first answer. Yesterday your rapporteur invoked the example of Spain, where the increase was lower than ours.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u244	Minister, you must be slowly completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u245	I'm closing, Mr. President. I just want to point out that the workers, the unemployed, the pensioners, the disabled and the weakest strata are at the heart of our policy. Watch out, not with words, but with works! We are not claiming the monopoly of social sensitivity, but we are not giving it to anyone, especially those who, while criticising us, have done much less than we do for all the weaker layers of society. I've shown you evidence and if you can disprove them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u246	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u247	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u248	Mr Skourletis, will we now begin a procedure that, as I have said before, every time a Minister comes in and says what he says, will you take the floor to answer and then take the floor back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u249	Mr. Amyras I didn't take the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u250	All right, now! Pick them up after all and you can make a more comprehensive intervention for four, five topics.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u251	Give me the floor now and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u252	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u253	All right, Mr. Skourletis, let go of these now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u254	But please, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u255	You have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u256	Two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u257	For a minute and a half.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u258	For one and a half, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u259	Here, Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u260	So because we need to talk with projects and not with words, we have and say: 629 million, 750 million, 780 million was the social dividend that SYRIZA gave in 2016, 2017 and 2018. Can we compare it to you? It's 175 million, 54 million, 330 million. I hope that you will reduce unemployment while SYRIZA has received it to 27% of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u261	It was 20%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u262	27% received it from you and gave it to 17%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u263	Come on, come on. Don't bother. Let the parliamentary representative continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u264	My colleague reminds me of the third pension up to EUR 500 and a percentage above that. But be careful now. Since unemployment is indeed deviating, how is it possible for the share of dependent labour, despite the growth rate, to remain stable and in absolute terms - in percentage terms - and to raise profits? What does that mean? It means new inequality. Your model is a growth that gives rise to inequality. So what kind of jobs are these when unemployment falls and the share of work is falling? From there you talked about the Labour Inspectorate. Do not invoke this example. The Labour Inspectorate is the main tool of the Ministry of Labour and in his DNA, in the Statute of the Charter this Ministry is on the employees' side and not on the employer's side. You managed and did it, the Ministry of Employers and you throw the ball out on the platform, making the Labour Inspectorate inactive in the first phase and an Independent Authority in second phase. Mercy! You will not be forgiven, because with such a Labour Inspectorate, both flexible forms of work and black work and the abuse of rights will be the norm. That's the model. That's what you're offering young people. That is what you are constantly building up with your policy. Let me conclude by saying this: the history of outstanding pensions has become a joke. It's a joke now! You're always reopening, entrusting them to private individuals, private individuals are not entitled to sign, making mistakes, kicking out the previous people who had learned something. Don't make heavy announcements because you're being exposed all the time. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u265	Mrs Giannakopoulou has asked for the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u266	And then you'll give me the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u267	Here, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor for one minute, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u268	Minister, because we must always be expensive, that's what we will do on our part. You have spoken about an increase in expenditure on basic and supplementary pensions, but also on allowances. This does not, however, result from the application of some new measures, but from measures adopted from 2020 and 2021. The increase in family allowances also results from the widening of income criteria, along with the reduction in incomes which have been reflected in tax declarations this year. You are being paid to raise expenditure on basic pensions by EUR 50 million, when applications for basic pensions are the first eight months of 2021 per cent thirty thousand, and they will reach two hundred and two hundred twenty thousand by the end of the year. I don't know exactly how you think - and if you can, explain to us - that this increase of just 50 million will be done. And I will conclude, Mr President, by reminding you that it was the Prime Minister himself who was electionfully committed to abolishing the Katrugalos law which reduced the pensions of young pensioners by 20%-35%. Not only have you maintained it with your own law, with the new law, but you will lead to further very large reductions in pensions to free professionals and farmers. There is something that you had been committing beforehand, but we do not see it in any way post-election and we will insist as a PASOK and as a Change Movement because we established it, Minister. Finally, what are you going to do with the CSCE? Your election commitment was to bring back what SYRIZA abolished. Why are we still waiting? What are you doing with this? You are exponential, Mr Ministers, you and the government. We are therefore waiting for you to speak with clear words, especially on the issue of EKE, and for the Greek people to see not just communal flares, but works, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u269	We will give the Minister the floor now, but then the Minister will proceed directly to the list of speakers. There will be no further interventions by parliamentarians. I'm saying this so we can have a consultation. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u270	I hope so.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u271	No, you're hoping. Make an effort to make hope a reality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u272	I'll do, I'll do. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I will start by Mrs Giannakoulou to remind her that after the Katorugalou law there was another law called Brutsi. That's how society remembers him. This law came to correct just as many injustices of Katrugalu law as it was for this reason, if you remember, all the last few months are paid retrospectively and there are also increases in a number of pensioners, precisely because all these injustices have been corrected. The debate on retrospectives would not take place otherwise. One of the prisoners. Secondly, you said about outstanding pensions. I was clear. I told you that we had thirty thousand decisions in 2019, sixty thousand decisions in 2020 and two thousand decisions by the end of November. And the December decisions will also come. What don't you understand about that? I think it can't be done. The FBI has never made that many pension decisions. We are not praised for that, and that is why we are stepping up our efforts with the bill that we will bring to modernise the ECA. The social budget is higher and I have explained why. You say that because of the widening of criteria and so on. All right, because of the widening of criteria, but it's bigger. That's what matters. That should be disgusting if you can. And I'm going through to Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u273	You didn't say about the ESS. You don't answer for the ESS.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u274	These were the things that the Prime Minister had committed to in his programme statements, and that was quite clear from the first day we became a government. Now I'm coming to Mr. Skourlet. I'm not gonna answer the pensions again because I'm obviously going to say the same thing. I will say that the dividends that Mr. Skourletis and Syriza cut were the result of overtaxation. The middle class was fought by SYRIZA, and then you returned - Christmas, Easter, whenever you wanted - all these amounts, being taken for your so-called social person. However, I told you how much your social budget was in 2019 and how much our budget is now and I proved to you that our budget is 2 billion or 10% greater than yours. Can you take a second view of this? Can you deny it? I repeat it and will repeat it throughout the budget debate. I'm on my way. With regard to unemployment, I do not understand why you are making this greedy position. We got an unemployment from you 17.2%. Unemployment is now 13%, according to ELSTAT and EUROSTAT. We've reached 2010 levels. Workers, the employees, have been overtaken after many years by the four million dam. Why are you questioning this? Is it the field you think, Mr. Skourletis, that the government is weak to criticize her? I am not saying that we are infallible in all areas, but in this area there is clear and measurable progress.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u275	I told you specifically about the pay for a dependent job!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u276	Also, I do not understand the criticism you make of the Labour Inspectorate. When the Law on the Protection of Work passed, I was "washed" - not all of you - with a thousand worldly surnames, analgesic, neoliberal, etc. So I am an abstract and neoliberal in your opinion, especially on the issue of the Labour Inspectorate. I say that there is an independent authority, so that the Minister, the Secretary-General, does not intervene, and you say: 'No, especially on this issue, we trust Hatzidakis'. Out of the way, I can't get out. We call 'black', you say 'white'. We say 'white', you say 'black'. That's the opposition you're doing. And since you said things, I would at last like someone from SYRIZA to the end of the meeting to respond to what the employees of SYRIZA say. The solution to the "SGEI" finances cannot be relocated to the workers' backs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u277	Tell us about the loans. SYRIZA owes nothing to the banks! Fucking shit! You're not ashamed! Your party's loans to pay!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u278	Minister, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u279	From 2014 until today, the wages of SGEIs, due to the two successive reductions, in 2014 and 2017, have been cut by one third.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u280	You're going to pay for the loans? Give your wages to pay the banks! Turn the money back to the banks!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u281	Please, Mr. Skourlet, calm down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u282	And you want to be a party of housewives!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u283	Jobs, mainly from retirement, have fallen by one quarter. This is what the employees of "SGEI" say. And because SYRIZA can't answer, I hear from Mr. Skourlet. But this comment is still awaiting an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u284	The money to come back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u285	Housekeepers!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u286	Please, calm down. Mr Dermenzopoulou Christos has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the debate and the vote of this year's budget is taking place at a difficult time not only for our country but also worldwide. We have been drawing up the third budget since the New Democracy took over the country's governance and the second in pandemic and ongoing economic crisis. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, despite the many unexpected adventures that had to be managed, unlike the previous government of SYRIZA, remains absolutely consistent in the implementation of its election programme in many different policy areas. For example, in unprecedented health crisis conditions: In the economy we exempted citizens from the special solidarity levy by the end of 2022. We've reduced contributions. We've reduced VAT to specific categories. We've reduced HISBIA. In education we appointed eleven thousand seven hundred teachers in our schools. We have implemented new curricula. We upgraded vocational training. We have founded thematic and experimental IEC. We hired doctors, nurses and administrative staff. We've created new ITH beds. We have created with complete success and exemplary organization the "ELEVERIA" vaccination network. The Greek Government therefore draws up and submits this year the 2022 budget on which Greece of the future is reflected on a steady but developmental path. Greece becomes a country that looks ahead, faces the abscesses of the past and moves forward with optimism. It is true that, despite the unforeseen crises, the financial staff were particularly successful in facing any fiscal fluctuation and brought proposals and reforms concerning the whole of Greek society. The migration, the challenge of the neighbouring country, the consequences of climate change, environmental and natural disasters, as well as the general price increase crisis have highlighted the need to address these tests. Our country has demonstrated in all these sectors very fast reflexes and has successfully passed the difficult crack test. The 2022 budget therefore comes at a time when we are finally leaving everything that has hurt us, what has made us obstacles to move forward and to look forward with optimism. Therefore, with official estimates of the staff in the fourth quarter of the year, all annual GDP losses are expected to be recovered in 2020. Our country is now moving at a positive rate of growth which is higher than Europe's average. Thus, for the years 2021 and 2022 there is cumulative growth of 11.7%, private consumption on the basis of forecasts is increasing this year and in 2022, investments are increasing in 2021 and 2022, as well. It is evidence that has been heard by other colleagues, but it is good that things are repeated. While 2021 was a year of adaptation and healing of wounds from the pandemic, 2022 will be a year that will put the country on a new development track. This budget supports the most economically weak, gives opportunities to the socially vulnerable, provides financial aid and establishes a framework for supporting all those who really need it. We are opening up our horizons to international markets, strengthening liquidity and maintaining cash resources at a high level. Citizens, ladies and gentlemen, do not forget the impressions left by former Prime Minister Tsipras and his government abroad. Our country is now leading and co-forming in Europe by proposing solutions that are adopted and exploited in full all those tools that our participation in the European institutions provides. A more characteristic example is the Eurogroup statement, the timely, targeted and temporary support measures taken by the Greek authorities, have reduced the impact of pandemic on businesses and workers. Therefore, the confidence of international markets in the Greek economy is constantly being upgraded and renewed. A man can understand that from issuing bonds. Contrary to the voices that speak of elements configured during dominance, we respond with evidence and deeds. We could talk hours listing what measures this government has taken, but that is not our objective. However, it is unfair to hear from so many speeches the same accusations from the opposition, that we supposedly did not take steps, that we left the citizens to their fate, that we did not prevent the pandemic. Ladies and gentlemen, what is happening with the opposition in our country is not happening anywhere else. On issues such as pandemic, opposition is against us. Taking advantage of the dynamic state of pandemic and putting its political benefit ahead, it does great harm to society, great harm to the citizens. We choose to go on the path of truth. That is what we have done, and that is what we have chosen to do since the beginning of our country's governance. The budget therefore includes measures and prospects for the entire Greek territory. So let me refer to Evros as an adjunct to this difficult year of my region. Evros this year lifted the burden of the immigration issue. We have, however, successfully faced attempted to invade, prevented illegal passages and failed to allow migration flows to be worked out, as others would. But we didn't stop there. We strengthened the security systems with the valuable assistance of the officials of the Greek Police and the Armed Forces, hired and continued to hire new border guards and finally gave a message to the citizens of all Thrace that they are not on their own. Our region is given the largest amount of all the regions, which can serve for development programmes and policies. In the area of infrastructure, decisions have been made and procedures have been unlocked, both for the port of Alexandroupolis and for the rail network of Evros and for the airport of the county. Our Thrace, our Evros, through the conclusion of the Thrace Committee, becomes the only region in Greece that acquires a parliamentary control mechanism for development proposals. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to close by responding to what is being said in the Chamber over the period from opposition. Our Government from the beginning is responding to problems with action and not with words. Our response is acts against those who create artificial crises to cover their political weaknesses, acts that are interchangeable with the citizens, based on the demands of today and on the look into the future. And as long as some resort to lying and slandering and as long as some people talk about crises, we will speak with solutions. Ladies and gentlemen, with the 2022 budget we lay the foundations for the relaunching of the economy, we shield the system with strong and solid reform bases and make the country stronger, fairer and more stable. I invite you to put aside whatever purposes, to make a strong leap, to show a spirit of understanding and to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much. Mr. Giannoulis Christos has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Hatzidakis, we're used to this Step sounding gross lies. But since you referred to yourself, I would like to remind you that at the moment the party media of SYRIZA, AUGI, a historical newspaper traditionally revealing the pluralisms of the paradox of the right-wing, is faced with financial problems because, Mr Hatzidakis, he has never sponsored SIEMENS and Christoforikos, because he has never taken loans of 340 million to pay for them today by the Greek people... ...and why there was never a government, a minister of which you are, with guys like Mr. Petsa, who were sharing the money with people who flattered, like Furthiotis. That is why the means of AUGIS are having problems today, Mr Hatzidakis. And when we talk about freedom, ethics, you don't have the right to talk, the Minister of Government who threw "black" on public service broadcasting, and made Greece an international laugh at something that didn't happen to either Banana! Let us be modest and humble! Mr Hatzidakis, for two and a half years you have been systematicly negative - systems! - of logic, transparency, accountability and control, of the national plan, of modesty - if something reminds you - when you were the good version of a Vice-President and did not look like Adoni Georgiades. Unfortunately, however, you have denied us negatively. Negatives of history! We heard that the memos in Greece were brought by Tsipras and SYRIZA. Denies of equality, with other rights and obligations for citizens and others for the Prime Minister! Refusers of public education, public goods, public services! Refugees of social welfare! And from today, the Ministers of Government, Mr Ministers, unfortunately negative to the harsh truth. Do you understand what happened last night and today, all these hours? Have you realised that from this sacred Step of parliamentary democracy thirteen days ago, the Prime Minister of the country, who is unfortunately conducting himself as a party chief, expressed the most unscientific view of being cruelly disproved by experts, Mr Lytra and Mr Tsiodra - here it fits the'says also Kyriakos' - who show mortality? To illustrate what has happened, today is not just a day-to-day day. Today it has been reflected - what for eighteen months has also been pointed out by the Opposition - that intubation outside the ICM is a dangerous treaty for citizens. Experts confirm this with a study - research, it was captured as a scientific article in an international journal, and it says this, the most shocking one. What Mr. Mitsotakis considered to be non-hazardous from this Step, in panic and responding to the Chief of Officerial Response and described it as harmless, causes 87% mortality! Mr President-in-Office, Mr Pylakakis, because this morning you took a contraction - as if you were not required - to answer, how long does the truth take and a simple answer to a question from Maximos to Parliament? When Mr. Mitsotakis said that, did he know the truth? Did she lie? He didn't know? What's the matter? When are you going to answer? How many hours do you need on this route between truth and lies to be credible and truly consistent with the democratic principles of this place and the functioning of accountability? How many hours? Since this morning, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Augerre, the former Prime Minister yesterday, all the speakers, have asked you a simple question: did she know or did she not know? Yes or no? What else do you need? Why are you lying mercenaries misled by the Greek people when we all united forces to save the lives of our fellow citizens? These thousand five hundred people, based on the Tsiodra - Lytra survey, could have been saved if there were three conditions: ICU, decongested and organized hospitals such as Attica - recorded in the survey - and in other areas. A thousand five hundred people aren't numbers, they're souls. You don't want to answer us. In memory of the pandemic victims you want to show respect? And because there's a lot of spiral going on that we're trying to play political with deaths, it's embarrassing you to say that. What we are expressing in strong tone is painful. It's not just anger, it's painful, because in this country in this crisis she didn't deserve such a government. You've distorted the story. Don't move your hand, Mr. Comrade. You'll be judged by the story. Don't applaud ironically. Ironic is a sign of arrogantness, and if you stay for something in history is arrogance, inertia, inability and inability.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u290	You were judged by the people in 2019, three times,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u291	Don't give up on that. Account for the world. Not communication.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u292	Please, ladies and gentlemen! Mr. Giannoulis, your time is running out. Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u293	I shall conclude, Mr President. Unfortunately, I have to answer another question. You blame us for not talking about the budget, you tell us that we are not talking about the budget. Do you know why? Because the budget, unfortunately, is the X-ray of your policy and what we have described, of the practice of inertia, of inefficiency. And unfortunately - the technical information has been analysed - will it remain in history as the budget of irrationality and the great lie and the unanswered historical question 'all this has been done by fraudulent or naive'? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u294	Thank you. Mr Angelos Tsigris has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u295	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the words are poor to describe what is happening in Achaia and much more in Achaia, where the floods of recent days have turned thousands of acres of farmland, homes, property, hopes and dreams into a huge lake. Our people's lives flow into mud. Mr Ministers, we have the debt, with feelings of humanism and in the face of the celebrations that are coming, to stand by them, to immediately record the problems created by bad weather and to give full compensation to those affected so that these unfortunate fellow citizens can have a Christmas home with their children. Ladies and gentlemen, within a period of crisis: health, energy and accuracy; a genuinely development budget is presented, which provides for 7% growth, with a cumulative growth index that finally makes us Eurozone champions, which is almost 12%, with a reduction in unemployment by four percentage points over a year and with a generous support programme for households and businesses in the last two years of EUR 43 billion. However, I do not want to tire with many numbers already mentioned by many colleagues. I will try this year to discuss this top piece of legislation, the national budget, to be as useful as possible. In 2019, I talked about the performance budget that the government, on pilot basis, introduced into our budget. Last year, I talked about the green budget. These are two innovations, today they have completed their cycle. They have been fully articulated and cover all ministries, central state administration bodies and parliament. They increase the government's accountability and speed up the efficiency of public administration. That's the point. The budget should count all of us, our actual height and our weight. And the government is not afraid to count. It sets targets and counts. That's the performance budget. So, trying to be useful this year, Minister, I would like to make a proposal, so that we can also be pioneers in something new. I have always believed - and that is why I am here - that only a cohesion and solidarity society can create conditions for sustainable development for all. So, let us make a budget, a special budget for sustainable development, which, together with a special budget for the protection of child innocence, describes the inspiration and the willingness of the Greek governments to serve the future of the place: children and sustainable development. Sustainable development based on what criteria? The criteria of the United Nations, as set out in 2015, in the 70th General Assembly. They are the seventeen UN targets for sustainable development and the sixty-nine targets. If I am not tired of you, ladies and gentlemen, let me mention some of them to see if there is one who disagrees. Is that the bet for the next day? Zero poverty, zero hunger, good health and prosperity for all, quality education, but also lifelong learning, clean water and sewage, cheap and clean energy, decent work for all, infrastructure and encouragement of innovation, fewer inequalities within and between countries, sustainable cities and communities, responsible consumption and production, combating climate change, protection of the seas, justice and strong institutions. Who disagrees? This is our future to build a planet belonging to everyone. That's great to be real. However, these are the proposals and objectives of the UN for 2030 in order to eliminate poverty and hunger at global level, but also to lay the foundations for sustainable development. This, Minister, will be done by drawing up specific budget programmes that will measure the objectives of sustainable development, for which the Greek Government has been piloting the implementation of an action plan, and the European Union has committed itself to doing so immediately in all the Member States of the Community. To date, only Finland and Iceland have achieved this. I hope, and I propose from this Step, that we be the third country of the European Union that will do so. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, the sensitivity of all of us for children must not just remain in the words, it must be proved in practice. Therefore, all actions to protect child innocence must be recorded in the national budget as a specific chapter in the budget for performance. With these thoughts, ladies and gentlemen, after congratulating the government's financial staff for tabling, for another year, a measured and weighed budget, I would urge you to vote in favour of it. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u296	We are now continuing with the Member of the Change Movement, Mr Ilhan Ahmet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the budget you are trying to link with the phrase'return to normality', giving hope for recovery and prosperity to the citizens exhausted by the pandemic, will in practice see whether it will give this prosperity. We are a country that, despite the glamorous presentations of the Greek recovery and resilience plan, still bets all its money on tourism. You tell us that in 2022 you will have EUR 3.2 billion inflows from the Recovery Fund. We are telling you that, to date, we have not even received 1 euro, despite the fact that forty-eight projects have been included in the programme. You say return to normality and, rather, you mean the maintenance of oligopolises and the accuracy and maintenance of non-performing loans, the credit exclusion of small and medium-sized enterprises and the direct assignments to the few and selective who - with the blessings of your expensive state - have turned pandemic into an opportunity. You avoid telling us what the normality you are talking about is because you know that the recovery you promise is not about all the citizens of the country. Ladies and gentlemen, the publicity lights have fallen last year in Thrace, on the basis of the findings of the intergroup committee set up last year, in order to address the major development and institutional deficits it faces. We, as a Movement of Change, had expressed from the outset the view that it would be more useful for the Interministerial Committee on Thrace to implement targets through the power of executive power. Because our society, in principle, is full of words and expects actions, which will relieve our region of the negative burden of policies that have been carried out in the past and which are now among the poorest in Europe and not just Greece. However, we are not here - and I personally - to criticise a zero sum, only to satisfy our institutional stance as Opposition. That is why I will begin by starting with the positive results of the majority finding that, once they have evolved into applied policies in the field, they could be a way out of development, especially in the primary sector which is a strong pillar of our local economy. This is, of course, the adoption of our proposal, of the Change Movement and of mine, a proposal that we have been working for years in Athens, Thrace and Brussels, on the farm-specific support for farmers in mountain and disadvantaged areas throughout the country. The proposed intervention could initially be applied to the mountain and disadvantaged areas of the Rhodope Prefecture, as it is one of the counties with the lowest incomes in Greece. The aid to farmers in the peripheral mountainous regions and other disadvantaged areas should contribute through the permanent exploitation of agricultural areas in order to maintain the economic activity of the countryside. In the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace there are many small farms with an area of less than ten or even twenty acres, which face serious sustainability problems. In addition, when allocating the available Community resources on the basis of the territorial area of the holding, these small lots receive very small amounts of aid which cannot support their activity. Our proposal is costly and fully implemented at a time when Rhodope and Thrace in general are bleeding people and hundreds of our fellow citizens fleeing abroad as a workforce to escape poverty. It is perhaps the only realistic proposal to contain the poor, with a small lot, farmers on their land. Our proposal was incorporated into the conclusion - that is positive - and we expect this government to implement it immediately. I would like at this step to stand up to the vindication of a fight that has been given since 2018 to restore a great injustice for farmers who cultivate the variety of basmas in Thrace and especially in Rhodope. This is the compensation of EUR 90 per acre announced about a month ago by the Minister for Rural Development and with my presence in the Ministry together with my colleague, Mr Stylianides, and the chairman of the Intergroup, Mrs Dora Bakoyannis. Here I would like to thank, on behalf of all the producers, both our President Dora Bakoyannis and you, Mr Minister, for your help and the Prime Minister who stood up and justified and accepted the request of these people in this region. Of the seventy-eight thousand acres of tobacco in total, forty-six thousand acres will be compensated, and the total amount is 5 million euros, which these people are entitled to and with that amount will be able to continue their crops. We expect, of course, with great interest and the adoption of the joint ministerial decision next month, in January, in order to make the disbursement. Of course developments in the cultivation of stevia are of course interesting and perhaps also an alternative crop, and the Ministry must study and draw up a sustainable plan to pass on alternative crops. Ladies and gentlemen, as a minority Member I would like to close and say this. Minorities in Thrace are its social, cultural and economic wealth. We are fighting for a society of rights and prosperity without the weights of the past that have cost us so much. From this fight I will personally not give up until our dreams and goals are done in full. I regret, however, that the policies pursued by the current government on issues of education and religious freedom do not fully satisfy our fellow citizens and various practices are deeply affected and disappointing them. One example I will say and I will close my speech. The Teachers' Association of Special Pedagogical Graduates of Thessaloniki, Rodopi and Evros notified us of a letter concerning the operation of minority schools, especially, during the sanctuary for Muslims Friday day. What do you mean? That while for thirty-forty years on the day of prayer these schools were able to close a little earlier to get teachers and students to go to the mosque, those who wanted, this practice was abolished by the present government, and this creates a pile of problems, with the result on December 17, that is, on Friday, all minority schools in Rhodope to go to protest-abduction, to close schools, asking for self-evidently, to respect this religious freedom. I call from here and hope that a solution will be found to this problem, that old practice will be adopted, of course, by means of a ministerial decision regulating and respecting the right of these people, those who - of course - believe and want to exercise their right, that they can go to the mosque and the school close up in advance, supplementing - certainly - the hours that will be lost by this two-hour, or in some other way, by discussing with the educational community. Thank you very much. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u298	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr Athanasios Davaki from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u299	Ladies and gentlemen, the budget that we have been discussing since yesterday afternoon reflects a periphery of global economic turbulence, due to the pandemic that we have been experiencing for two years now, inflationary pressures, major natural disasters, but also regional problems that our neighbours are constantly causing in our region. But I believe that this budget of this government clearly reflects its ideological core, its political history, and that is what makes us defensive to problems and aggressive to their solutions. In the text of this budget, however, in addition to measures to deal with all these adversities, the optimism that inspires us the most recent economic data and the positive results of the government's economic and development policy. Elements such as the decline in unemployment by 4.2 percentage points, the high growth rate of the economy in 2021 - that is what foreigners say, not only the government - which is now expected to reach 6.9%, the growing flow of foreign direct investment, as well as the gradual reduction in public debt show that the government's mix of support and tax burden measures in the middle class operates and has a direct positive effect on the real economy. If we look at the details now, then, we see that the government's main priority is the protection of public health. EUR 872 million has been added to the cost of the Ministry of Health - this dramatic period for the place and for the whole of the world - concerning both the payroll of subsidiary staff and any emergency needs arising within this timeframe. That is why I would ask, Mr President-in-Office, that special attention be paid, as for the other regions of the country, to the construction of the Laconia health units, because there is indeed a serious question of subsistence, which, of course, is not a full responsibility of the Government, is a matter of direct and, I would say, a specific preference, particularly for medical staff. Our country's response to the attempt to violate the Evros, but also to address last year's crisis in the Aegean and the Eastern Mediterranean, was resolutely supported by our Armed Forces, which clearly proves to be one of the key priorities of this government, which will make more than EUR 3.3 billion available for 2022 in their support. Upgrade the existing anaerobic anaerobics, purchase of new weapon systems peak, fighter aircraft such as Rafale, countermeasures for torpedoes, for underwater anaerobic propulsion, last-tech ammunition for our Air Force and for the Dry Army, new surface plants for our Navy, such as Belharra, are among the hundreds of about fifty three armaments that are being launched or already in preparation. What is being done today in the armaments strengthening of our Armed Forces is the implementation of one, as I have said another, "Mitsotakis Domaine" in the field of national defence and are worthy of this step congratulations, both to the Minister and to the physical leadership of the Armed Forces, for the good work they have done and continue to do. I believe that we need to see again - because beyond arms, beyond armaments, there are also people - the issue, ladies and gentlemen, the taxation of retrospectives that we are returning to the repatriators of the Armed Forces, as their incorporation into incomes in 2016 and 2017 leads to a large rate of tax withholding. I believe that you will see it and I am optimistic in this direction, as the Minister of Finance and the Minister of National Defence has announced. A popular party such as the New Democracy, the farmer, the farmer, the fisherman and whoever deals with the primary sector has always been and is, over time, her main concern. The 50% increase in the allocation of young farmers, the programme of young farmers, and the government's decision to launch new programmes by 2025 is a good prospect, as well as the maintenance of the associated aids to nineteen emblems in our country, such as oranges in my region, in Laconia, through which the juice industry will also be supported, with what this implies for the financial support of the region, as well as support, through the programmes of the Ministry of Rural Development, the small sheep and goatmeat, which are also a special feature in the primary production of our country. However, there must be special care for the management of water, since we are talking about agricultural production. I welcome the presentation of the twenty projects of an irrigation recently by the political leadership, but there are other projects that have gone ahead in the previous government mandates of the New Democracy, and I am talking about the period 2004-2009, which are still dating, such as the Kelefina dam and the closed Trinasus circuit, which will completely strengthen primary production in the region. You need to see it. We have excellent cooperation with the political leadership of the Ministry of National Defence and, in particular, the General Secretariat of European Resources, and I think we will have good results in this regard. One issue, too, which is a constant problem in primary production is the increases in energy and in agricultural supplies, which eject production costs for the rural world. It requires political intervention, particularly in terms of increasing the agricultural current, but also of increasing the current of the associated professions, which is a time bomb for product appreciations and also for the economic situation of our farmers. I am pleased, I would say, pleased with regard to dealing with the great fires in Mani last August. I believe, however, that there is a need for a great re-establishment of the soil, a new enrichment of plant production with new plantations and innovative solutions are needed in the area. There are solutions and we are ready to propose them. In the many areas of social security, which Mr Hatzidakis mentioned earlier, I would like to say to SYRIZA that he is not entitled to speak. In order to hide the issue of pension reductions, it has implemented the ECA, creating a huge problem in the awarding of pensions, which, even today, the staff with heroic efforts are trying to cover, the staff of the integrated insurance funds. The EFKA today is in transition and the various snipers - where the political leadership of the Ministry of Labour and the administration are trying hard to get through and I want to greet them - are many, but there is also a need for greater staffing, Mr Ministers, on the issues of strengthening staff in the various services. Also, because I see Mr. Vésiropoulos, with whom we also have excellent cooperation, we need to look at the issues of the regions concerned, the areas in which they are located, such as the areas in the Municipality of Eurota, Lagios and Aphaea. We've been through this, Minister. I welcome the announcement of legislation, and I would like to believe that all of this will create a favourable perspective towards solving the problem. This budget, ladies and gentlemen, clearly reflects, as I said at the beginning of my speech, the popularity that this faction has. It comes from the people and whenever the Greek people decide to assign her the fates of the country, they work for him. The vote on this budget will be another step in the direction of this service to the Greek people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u300	"I inform you that the period from 19-12-2021 to 23-12-2021 will be done abroad. Please warmly for the necessary actions on your part. In honour, Bored George, Member of Aetolocarnania." The honourable Member, Mr Vartenmenos, seeks permission from a few days' absence abroad. Does the House approve?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u301	The House therefore approved the requested permission. We are now continuing with the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Screka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u302	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in 15 days' time we will leave a difficult year for both our country and the whole world behind. The global health crisis has tried and unfortunately continues to test the strengths of both our economy and our society, but we have so far succeeded standing and united and much more ready for future developments, to be able to discuss the next day for Greece's new day, Greece, which is changing for the better. Since September, however, it has been true that a new crisis, a new global crisis, has come to be added to the major international challenges that our country is called upon to manage. And, of course, I am referring to the global energy crisis, which has really created unprecedented phenomena in terms of explosive energy increases both in our country, in Europe and throughout the world. But reflexes of our government, and in this global crisis, as I said, were immediately. We have to say that since mid-September, very sooner than almost all the other European Member States, we have created a horizontal network of protection for everyone, regardless of the households, and the most vulnerable, but also of the middle class, in the face of major price rises, those of energy costs. But we have not stopped there, but we have adjusted the emergency measures and aid every month, based on international developments, so that we do not leave any of our fellow citizens unprotected of this huge international energy crisis. And we are determined to continue, and so in the first quarter of the new year, we will take new, targeted measures to further protect vulnerable households from the great price of energy. I must say here, with reference to what my previous colleague Mr Davakis said, that we are indeed, Mr Davakis, currently planning support measures and looking for ways of supporting the primary sector, because we cannot leave our farmers unprotected in this global crisis, which has ejected electricity and gas prices, of course. I must tell you that Greece does not have the most expensive electricity in Europe, as it often sounds from the mouths of Vice-Population MPs. I will tell you that Greece today has a price of EUR 197 per electric megawatt now. It is the cheapest in Europe, with many European countries exceeding EUR 300. Yesterday and today, our country had the cheapest electricity from all the Member States of Europe. I have to say, of course, that even these 200 euros per electric megawattage are four times higher than the start of the year. So we understand how high the electricity prices have been. What, however, is the last solution to shield our country from these transient threats? Certainly, however, the solution is not the one proposed by the Qualified Opposition, the SYRIZA prolongation, which has chosen the abolition of excise duty as the primary and basic weapon to address these exceptional energy prices. Here I would like to tell you that the excise duty on electricity does not exceed EUR 5 per megawatt, when the interventions we have undertaken, as a government, exceed EUR 130 per megawatt, that is, twenty and twenty-five times the support that our Government is currently providing from the proposal of SYRIZA, whereas, respectively, the excise duty on natural gas is only EUR 1 per megawatt, said by SYRIZA, that it should be abolished, when the interventions undertaken by our Government have led to a benefit of 30 euros, thirty times, i.e. a greater benefit per thermal range of natural gas. Of course, there are new support measures coming forward, as they will be specified in the next period. For December, in an interview, the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, has said that we will significantly increase the discount that consumers will enjoy, in cooperation with the other private providers. But what is our response to the attempt to create permanent bases for dealing with such variability in electricity or gas prices, fossil fuels in the future? It is an ambitious, coherent and modern green transition policy, a policy which includes all our fellow citizens at every stage of the transition and across the whole of it. We implement every day a multi-level and development policy, with a strong international dimension, with social sensitivity and commitment to the environment, from the continuous simplification of the institutional framework for renewable energy to the fair adaptation of saving programmes, from the green transformation of our industry and islands to our transition to climate neutrality, which is also the European vision. We are constantly struggling to involve our citizens in green energy, even the most vulnerable, and also the involvement of businesses, and of course we guarantee investment visibility and credibility, because green investment, mobilisation of more than EUR 44 billion by 2030, are those that will create over 50 000 new jobs, high know-how and decent wages, as is appropriate for our young people, from the circular economy to the hydrogen. We are therefore changing, ladies and gentlemen, the energy sector in all its dimensions, and we are promoting financial instruments to speed up any transformation. And that's not an announcement. It is a reality that people who deal with these branches feel it every day. Despite the challenges of the pandemic, despite the global energy crisis, we are working methodically on eleven critical axes that transform our country into a green energy hub and redefining the future of our citizens, a sustainable future with social resilience, but also quality in our daily lives. Who are these eleven axes? Firstly, we are 'driving' our energy mix faster than any other European country. The share of renewable energy today, ladies and gentlemen, exceeds 32% in electricity generation and electricity demand, while in 2030 it will exceed 70%. Secondly, we withdraw the existing lignite plants by 2023. We are moving on to a very courageous and ambitious defoliation programme, so that in 2028 - we have already announced - all lignite plants must have been closed down. In fact, some of this could happen earlier, in 2025, according to PPC’s announcements. We are broadening everyone's participation, without exceptions and without discrimination, in green energy. The New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is the one that promotes 100m euros for the installation of photovoltaics from our municipalities, in order to eliminate the energy costs for our vulnerable fellow citizens, by offsetting their meters with these photovoltaics and by providing them with almost free electricity. At the same time, we are speeding up the green transformation of industry by supporting green bilateral contracts and facilitating access to the networks, facing separation phenomena. We specialise targeted actions and incentives for critical sectors, such as the refineries and the cement industries, which in fact need to be adapted much faster and faster than they might have planned or may have assessed in the previous years in this energy transition, so that we can achieve a significant reduction in carbon footprint in these sectors, which are of course framed for the emissions of many tons of carbon dioxide into the atmosphere. We are simplifying the authorisation procedure of the RES by catalytic and even more. We are going to bring in the second phase of simplification of the process, to increase the speed of the introduction of the RES into our power mix, while continuing in the next stages. I'm gonna need two minutes, Mr. President. Of course, we are finally defining a new spatial planning for the RES, so that each investor, but also the citizens, know what is allowed to settle and where. Sixthly, we must say that gas, although temporary, is now, unfortunately, distinguished by this volatility in prices and the explosive increase in its prices, is a fuel which is far more friendly in the medium term, it has the necessary flexibility required by the meticulous variations in renewable energy sources, and therefore investment in infrastructure and natural gas units will exceed EUR 5 billion by 2030, while at the end of the year six hundred thousand consumers will have access to natural gas and we are working intensively, so that this figure will exceed one million in the next few years. We are carrying out flagic infrastructures that further enhance energy security and diversification of energy sources. The construction of the IGB gas pipeline between Greece and Bulgaria is completed. Also, by 2023, we estimate that the construction of the LNG gas terminal in Alexandroupolis will be completed. All of this takes off the export profile of our country, they turn it, of course, into a node of transport of energy and natural gas, and in particular, they upgrade the geopolitical and geo-energy role of northern Greece. It is of paramount importance that we consolidate our cooperation with Egypt. We are talking about building an electrical interconnection between Egypt and Greece, as well as exploring other options, creating a virtual pipeline for the transportation of liquefied natural gas and other projects. Let's say the TAP pipeline covers 18% of our imports today. The LPG terminal has been loaded from five countries this year. New services, within 2022, of tanker loading with LNG and small-scale LNG, will allow access to natural gas and to numerous non-interconnected areas in the country, remote areas. We are also promoting a critical infrastructure, underground gas storage in Kavala, so that in future we can secure gas prices between seasons, such as summer, where we have lower gas prices and winter, where traditionally we have increased gas prices. We also promote the storage of electricity. We will not be able to have this penetration of renewable energy sources, we can never reach 70% if we do not increase if we do not install new electricity storage systems. We have made use of EUR 450 million from the Recovery Fund for the installation of at least 700-800 megawatts, first of all, electricity storage systems. We establish hydrogen as a catalyst for the transition of our lignite areas and not just. We have already promoted five innovation projects. Greece is one of the countries in Europe that promotes very much hydrogen, because that is what will bring us the absolute flexibility, but also the absolute protection of the environment in the next few decades. We have promoted "White Dragon", an emblematic Greek national project and other projects for green cement production. We have put a total of twenty more projects of this kind in maturity orbit. We also promote the use of biofuels. Biomethane is very important, using waste. Biofuels will be close to us and we will have much greater involvement in the energy mix of the country and energy consumption in the years to come, protecting from the environment and the other by integrating the principles of the sustainable economy and the cyclical economy in our country. We promote energy savings with the aim of six hundred thousand buildings being upgraded since 2030. The new platform for EXOOKOVO was opened the day before yesterday, a programme that is completely different from what we inherited, much more fair, much more efficient, much more social. Priority has been abolished at last. Open Monday. No problem in the operation of the platform, they have fifty days in front of them for the engineers to be able to place their requests. It is a programme, I think, which finally helps our households and protects the environment, of course, on the one hand, but on the other, enjoy much lower energy costs, since through savings they naturally consume less energy, so lower costs. In the same context, we must say that we are transforming our islands into innovation hubs. Antypalaea, Halki are such examples, which are global examples of innovation. Greece is doing this, the current government. We have drawn up a comprehensive roadmap and promote the 'Greco islands', using EUR 1.5 billion, money from the European funds, so that we can move forward with the carbonisation of our islands. As you see, then, ladies and gentlemen, the things that are going on are too much in both the energy sector and the environment by our Government. We are transforming our country into a green energy hub, putting the citizen at the centre. We must say that at the heart of our policy and government is man, it is the human factor. Our country will move to the new year with a strong growth, but strong growth for all, and that is also the aim of this budget. With hard work, with bold reforms, with a high sense of responsibility, we continue to ensure a better presence for all our fellow citizens, without leaving anyone behind, but also to deliver to our children that future they really deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u303	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u304	I would also like the floor, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u305	In fact, Mr. Skourletis will speak first and then Mrs. Giannakopoulou will speak. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u306	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, I think if anyone could put a title in your intervention, it would be very quickly under conditions of wide-ranging energy poverty. You referred with satisfaction and said - Mr Rousopoulos said yesterday - that we had the cheapest wholesale price on yesterday. Only since the beginning of the year until now, after Italy, on average, we have been the most expensive country at a price best in Europe. I believe that it is a great responsibility, because it is a common place, a common denominator, to increase international prices, but it is not a common denominator that each country makes its own controls separately. And you so far stubbornly deny whatever tools you have, lose them, see PPC. You spoke before about the gas and the warehouse of Kavala and said "Here, we will give the warehouse of Kavala, so we will buy at cheap gas prices to use it when they are accurate". But a private person will do that. The HICP will give it to a private person, not the Public Gas Company. That's the one you sold. So you're making fun of us? PPC no longer has the delta, it's not public. You don't have the tools. And these tools you have, such as the intervention in excise duties, are mocking them. You're mocking them and triggering unemployment, accuracy. We are therefore in an explosive situation horizontally, involving peoples, small, large, medium-sized, small and medium-sized enterprises, very large companies. You'll all be in trouble. And you don't do anything. You come here and tell us about renewable energy sources. You know what? With your policy you are the saboteurs of green development and filtration of renewable energy sources. Why? Because you have left two and a half years without spatial planning, so that there are massive applications for investment in the RES, that societies do not know where they will orchestrate, where they will sow, where they will build, where they will invest, where they will set up RES and create conflict conditions. So you are undermining green growth and all you do is say hymns about natural gas. That's where you've done it. You've obviously been on a premium for certain interests. The energy communities, which are just moving towards a concept of energy democracy, are undermining them. You keep putting obstacles in place, because you want to premium the great interests in the area. A moment ago, your colleague at the Ministry even told us about the forest maps and he said that the country will finally have forest maps, the ones you canceled? The ones you froze? Mercy! So, this kind of perversion anymore? Such a distortion of reality? As far as you are concerned, be careful to see the concept of public interest, your Ministry, your Government, is the government that lost the majority in ELPE and the management at zero rates. What a concept of defending the public interest! PPC did the same thing. You did not participate in the right to increase share capital and we are really leading to a situation where what we had lived as a country, the period of the great humanitarian crisis, energy poverty, I fear very much that we will relive it. Minister, how the world will live, whether it's hot, whether business can get it off, it's not your case. It's all about us. Try to take steps to intercept this Armageddon of accuracy. That is not the case with your policy. Take the news. Stop prescribing the great interests and look at how you will meet the great needs. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u307	I mean the following. Parliamentary representatives take the floor and have the right to speak. But they've gone far beyond time to know. At least 100%. I am in a good mood, but you should know that the other Members are protesting, not for Mr Skourletis alone - to God! - for the use of time. They represent the Presidents, they assess it themselves. Please, Mrs. Giannakopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u308	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, we would really like to be optimistic about the draft budget, especially for the matter of your own Ministry, especially one of the most serious issues affecting small and medium-sized households and the most vulnerable households, but I fear that you do not give us such a margin. Because you know, and we all know, that yes, energy costs are hitting, kneeling all the households, as well as the businesses. You remember, Minister, that we had warned you early in September that we still have a long way to go. We told you that the energy crisis at that time is under way and you must take measures and I imagine that you remember that the Prime Minister himself at that time said that the increases that consumers will feel will almost zero. You see, that's not what happened after all. You see that you have completely fallen out on the assurances from the Prime Minister's own mouth. So what we are telling you is that we cannot see through the draft of this budget that you genuinely give energy security to households and businesses. We do not see a truly energy mix that gives a safety. It is a dangerous thing to do by relying on imported gas in the way you do it. There is no specific plan for energy transition, which will concern the many and which will help us to deal with this crisis. One simple example I'll say. On a lasting basis, Minister, you are announcing greater amounts of energy subsidies and that is how you deal with it. But that reminds me of a barrel that has no bottom. In September, it was EUR 150 million. Then, in October, it was 400 million euros. Now it is EUR 620 million for four months that of course do not cover the whole winter. You're right, you did well. But we're dealing with the problem, aren't we? It's a simple question. You are also saying, Minister, that it is an international issue in the end, that international turbulence is the ones that have brought energy accuracy. Yes, it's true what you're saying, but it's true half, so lie, Minister. Why do you forget that Greece has been stable for many months in the most expensive countries in Europe at the wholesale price of electricity? What do we actually do? Break one record after another. Why is that happening? Unfortunately, there are distortions of an oligopolistic character in our country. And what are you doing for that, Minister? Instead of putting rules on the market, you are actually leading to dealing with who players will be on the market. That's not the way to solve it. And to close, Mr President - and I have exceeded my time - by saying that it is very important - and we insist - that a substantial relief and solution would be, yes, a reduction in indirect taxes, yes, a reduction in excise duty. Because in Greece, on the basis of the available comparative data, we were the third country with the highest excise duty in Europe and the fourth with the highest indirect taxation in the 27 countries of the European Union. This is deeply conservative, deeply unfair. It mainly hurts the weakest. That's a move you should see and see seriously. And we expect the rest of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u309	Mr. Pachilis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u310	First of all, I want to make a comment on the procedure. If, in every Minister's case, six parliamentary representatives have been speaking for five minutes, it is half an hour. And if the Minister responds with five or ten minutes, then they will complain because the MPs will not speak. It's just a matter of that. Secondly, this process which has been initiated so, that we agree and know what to do as well. Whenever the Minister speaks, will six parliamentary representatives come out and answer or not? What do we say? This will be at the expense of the whole procedure and at the expense of the speakers. If we have the right to do so, we will also do so at the end, because we have an opinion on all matters. However, the parliamentary spokesman speaks 12 minutes and six minutes and three minutes, a total of twenty-one minutes, and the MPs can answer or answer from each party. But if we put it in place - and I say it so that the President of Parliament and the others listen - we will also exercise the right. Secondly, I will make a comment. Triangulation in a glass! You're all with green growth, so-called green growth. Everybody but the JRC!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u311	What are you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u312	You're all with green growth!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u313	How about you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u314	When your parliamentary representative speaks, I speak? It's called a donkey to say it in a peasant's tongue. I didn't interrupt anyone. I didn't comment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u315	Please, ladies and gentlemen! You're welcome, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u316	So I'm saying that the Greek people also know what they're playing. They're all with the so-called green growth. It's a common strategy for New Democracy, SYRIZA, Change Movement and I don't know who else. Everybody's talking about green growth. You will tell us: 'Are you against?'. Of course not. We are in favour of exploiting the wealthy sources that our country has. First of all, we have the largest lignite reserves. You'll tell us it's expensive and contagious. Not one thing either. Why is it expensive? Because the European Union is putting fines on it. Is he infecting? If you put in new filters, it's - I'm not saying zero - the infection. However, these investments are not relevant. Secondly, with regard to water - and no one responds here - we have rivers that can become dams, which do not affect the environment and which can satisfy some of what is called green energy and renewable energy sources and are complementary to cover our country's energy adequacy. And it could still be exporting. But the first one and the main one is that. This is our proposal scientifically substantiated. Why don't we move on to this? Why should giant funds be invested - and let fairy tales of what they will do with the energy communities - which are packed up to 60% and 70%. In fact, the business groups are financed. Not to mention the example of the past, which made wind turbines - I don't want to say names because they are too many - to power the factory and sell the electricity to PPC more accurately than they bought it. That's your policy. And don't hide behind your finger, all of you! The fight is who's gonna handle this. And anyway, all the privatisation stuff is a given thing about what's going on. But aren't you a little serious? You gave all the property of the Greek people! You put her in the superstition for ninety-nine years...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u317	Who did they give? Who did they give?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u318	Mr. Skourlet, I'm sorry, why don't you just leave him?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u319	You put all the public property in, yes or no?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u320	Just a minute, Mr. Palphie. Mr. Skourletis, you had the floor, you spoke, no one bothered you. Please be far beyond agreeing or not to agree with Mr. Paphie...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u321	It's not a matter of agreement or disagreement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u322	And if anyone thinks that the other guy is lying, will he interrupt? This is not a democracy, I'm sorry. You're wrong, Mrs. Gara. Democracy is to take the floor, as Mr Skourletis called before and answer. If anyone here thinks that the interlocutor is lying to him, then we won't go on like that. You're welcome, Mr. Paphie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u323	So I say, Mr President, that at last a little - how can I say it? - friendly there must be! Did the public property come into the superstition, yes or no? He's in! How many years? Ninety-nine! The conclusions to the Greek people. Don't yell over it, though. Secondly, now I don't want to open my mouth. Greece has filled bases and started the same! I don't want to say such things. We are talking about this. And so the fight that is now taking place has nothing to do with the people having a cheap current. It's who's gonna manage this package. And finally I'm talking again. It's a rhetorical question. Do you agree with the Recovery Fund? They all agreed, except for the JRC. Is it a term of the Recovery Fund and laws brought by the New Democracy that are unpopular and disastrous? Yes or no? You don't know that? Even for the Judiciary School, there is a term within the thirteen that we talked about the other day. And yet, you have agreed to go and make fun of the Greek people! That's the point. Who will, then, benefit? Who pays the green energy? The business groups? How much do they give? It is paid by the Greek people, whether through taxation or through the superstition, that is, Europe or through PPC. Yes or no? Is it cheaper? He doesn't. Are you all with the European Union, with the liberalisation of energy? Yes or no? Here, the results of the liberalisation of energy. Aren't you all in favour of all parties except the JRC? Isn't that right? And with the energy stock exchange again. And now that the cohort fights are coming out to put the blame on everyone with things that they don't agree and load them on to the other who of course continues the same policy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u324	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u325	Immediately, Minister. I would like to point out once again to all the Members of Parliament, whom there is tolerance from the Bureau, because we understand that they should see the time each time the Minister speaks. From that point on, it's their right, which is what I understand. Of course, as you know, the Rules of Procedure are not compatible with this procedure. There is tolerance, but I think that if we finally get the floor from the parliamentary representatives, it will not be a good picture. I hope that the next period will be more pitiful. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u326	I will be brief, Mr President. I shall begin with the remarks made by the parliamentary representative of the Communist Party of Greece and the Change Movement, Mrs Giannakopoulou. In fact, I would like to wish her success in her new duties. You both made a good point. I will leave the comment on what the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative has said at the end. So you made two remarks. The first point is whether the green transition, if the strategic decision of Europe and Greece - which participates in it and supports it - is to move from the current situation to that situation where the majority of electricity generation will come from renewable energy sources will be able to ensure two things: first, to protect the planet and address the causes of climate change. I think that's the big deal, because we need to ensure the lives of man on this planet. Secondly, if this energy transition can ensure competitive energy prices, low energy prices, no fluctuations for households, for vulnerable people, for businesses. And I'll tell you something very simple. Today 70% of electricity production in our country depends on fossil fuels, whether from lignite or from natural gas or oil on the islands. The cost - it is very simple to find - of producing electricity from these fossil fuels today that we are talking about is six and seven times more expensive than the cost of electricity produced by wind turbines and photovoltaics. A photovoltaic produces electricity today, an electrical megawattage now at an average cost of approximately EUR 40-45 and a lignite plant, a gas plant or a diesel generator on the islands produces an electrical megawatt with the current prices of these fossil fuels - imported by the country, but also with the carbon tax that Europe has imposed through this ETS mechanism to protect our planet - at the cost of EUR 200 and 250 electricity now. So you understand what the permanent solution is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u327	How much is the tax?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u328	And because you are absolutely right to ask what the cost of carbon dioxide is for electricity production, whether from natural gas or from lignite, for natural gas the cost of carbon dioxide is about 30% of appreciation and the remaining 70% comes from an increase in the fossil fuel in itself. The lignite is the highest percentage of lignite. 70% of the cost of lignite generation is due to this end of carbon dioxide, the cost of pollutants. The question is whether we need to reduce carbon dioxide emissions. That's a question we all have to answer, to know how we're going to go from here to this country and to this planet. Can Greece continue in the next few decades to transmit to the atmosphere at the same rate as these tones, the 19.5 million tons of carbon dioxide and increase them? Because what about climate change then? What will come about with the climate crisis? You see what happens every year in our country. We have intense weather phenomena, which had a period of thirty, forty or fifty years, and now appear every year! What are you going to tell the farmers in Carditsa, Larissa, Trikala about 'January'? What are you going to tell the farmers in Pella, Imathia, about the extraordinary ices? These ices appeared every twenty years and now appear every two years. So is the floods. Floods that have appeared every forty years now appear every year. All this has the effect of destroying primary production, losing the farmer's income, failing or failing, because the state budget supports the insurance system of farmers, the agricultural sector and increasing the prices of primary products, fruit, vegetables and food to consumers. Is that sustainable? What's that for? It is due to an increase in the temperature of the planet. And why is the global temperature rise? But carbon dioxide emissions. So the green transition, the 2030 strategy of the country, which says 70% of electricity generation, comes from renewable energy sources, that is, from sun and air, means that we will get 70% out of imported fuel. For 70% will come from the sun that, thank God, we also have plenty of wind that also, thank God, has our country, especially in offshore areas. That is why we are also promoting offshore winds. So this policy is absolutely right. I'm responding to this position of yours. Secondly, I come to what Mrs Giannakopoulou said. Why, he says, do you come and increase the subsidy every month? Why do you come in every few minutes and a little while and increase the aid? Firstly, why neither the markets nor the more specific ones could appreciate, could predict August when we decided on the aid - first was Greece, between the first two countries in the European Union was Greece and Spain, when Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis announced the aid - the extent to which this phenomenon would take. Then, based on the forecasts of the markets, the experts, the producers, the futures, the future energy prices, we have planned a programme. But, precisely because we had the provision, we said that we would set up an energy transition fund and channel funds there from the surpluses that the special account that supports renewable energy, because they, as we have said, are far more competitive and produce electricity at a much lower cost and we will use these surpluses due to the cheap cost of electricity produced by the RES to support all households, and the vulnerable and the middle class. And because we had this provision, we come every time the wholesale price of electricity increases - this creates even greater surpluses in the special account that supports RES, ELAP - and we get these surpluses and transfer them to the energy transition fund. And through this fund, we support vulnerable people and not just them. Someone said there are households that won't warm up in the winter. So we come and make use of EUR 40 million for reconnections and for payment of dues of the most vulnerable, those who in a few days will be calling in this five-digit emergency- energy solidarity number and in cooperation with the municipality will immediately be instructed to reconnect the electricity and thus warm his home. And I shall go - and I shall finish, Mr President - to the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative. Of course, I will bypass the fact that he did not say anything about Officer Response's proposals to deal with explosive energy prices because of the energy crisis. He didn't say anything!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u329	He said it in the report!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u330	He spoke five, six minutes and didn't say anything on his location. But what makes me really impressed, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u331	Be here to listen, Minister!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u332	I'm sorry, Mr. Skourletis, but there's just been so much procedure here with Mr. Pafilis not to bother each other. Let the Minister speak and you'll speak! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u333	It's all right, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u334	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u335	Mr. Skourletis, I protected you before. You have just asked for the same thing as Mr Palhei, to proceed with the procedure. Please, Minister, you've reached eight minutes. I realized you needed some time, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u336	I shall conclude, Mr President, but the remarks made by my colleagues were important. SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman said nothing about how SYRIZA would deal with accuracy in energy. But I am impressed by the fact that you have not gone through a similar position and you may not know very well about the energy issues. Aren't you asking the colleague behind to tell you two things?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u337	Are you telling me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u338	In my own village, Mr. Colleague, they say, "Don't scratch on the gypsy golf"...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u339	It's totally lost, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u340	Mr. Skourlet, what can I say? Now, should I go into this process and say who's lost or not? But are these serious things?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u341	But he's telling me...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u342	But please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u343	Mr President, I understand the disturbance of my colleague, but he is understandable.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u344	But I can't get into this process. Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u345	I shall conclude, Mr President. Mr Colleague, they say in my village - I don't know what they say - "Don't scratch on the gypsy gypsy." You come to this Chamber and say: "You have demilitarized PPC and so PPC is now not a tool that could support Greek households against this international energy crisis that has increased so much prices". And I ask you, ladies and gentlemen, this: in 2015, the SYRIZA government, where Mr SYRIZA was Minister, received PPC profitable. In 2019 he delivered PPC with accumulated losses of EUR 2.3 billion. It had EUR 800 million losses in 2018 and EUR 1.5 billion losses in 2019. And I ask, ladies and gentlemen, this: First of all, with PPC having the year 1 billion euros of damages so far, the Greek taxpayer should have been called through taxation, through the state budget, to put many billions into PPC so that it does not go bankrupt and does not stop operating to provide power in the country. But anyway, I'm overdoing this! Do you believe that with EUR 1 billion of damage per year PPC could support vulnerable consumers and Greek society against this crisis? I have to tell you that PPC has spent over 340 million euros in discounts so that it can absorb part of the valuation. And whoever looks at PPC's account - and I think you can at least read it - will see the front page, and it will be backwards. There you will see that there is an adjustment clause that states how much the price is increased. But from there on you will see that there is also a series of discounts. The energy discount by PPC is 30% for the households and 40% for the six hundred kilowatts. For farmers it is 50% on the adjustment clause. And that's where the aid from our government comes from and the subsidies they absorb - it's true - not 99%, not 95% of the valuation for an average household that has up to three hundred kilowatts of consumption, but that absorbs 70%, 80% of the appreciation, that is, the largest part of the increase. This has been done by our government and this has been done with a PPC that received it with 1.5 billion euros losses, with a share price near the euro and today PPC has 10 times greater value and, of course, profitability. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u346	I said before about the parliamentary representatives. However, I would like to say to you - and I address the Ministers - that the Minister spoke as much as he spoke in his speech. I think that if you want all my fellow Members to speak, Parliamentary representatives should also be able to speak, but also the government should reduce the speaking time a little, so that the procedure can go ahead. We will now continue with Mrs Sultana Eleftheriadou from SYRIZA. Here, Mrs. Eleftheriadou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u347	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will take a minute to answer Mr Hatzidakis who today impressed me because I first heard him refer to workers. Indeed, Mr Hatzidakis was the first to refer to workers, hypocritically, but let us not be advantageous. So he asked us, and he left - because he does not really care - what is going to happen to the workers in "SYE". So I'll tell him that SYRIZA is trying to keep his finances settled. This must be done for the Greek people, because the Greek people must have the option of choosing to vote for a party of power which will not have any euro and will not have any dangerous commitments anywhere, of course always with respect for labour rights. That's what it does now. Mr. Hatzidakis, who has been led along with Ms.Herrinakis on the darkest paths of ergonomic corruption and interplanetaryism, will not move the finger to SYRIZA any more. But I will reverse his question and say that by the end of today's debate one of you'supervisors' must answer to us what is going to happen with your party's debt. I think you owe 362 million euros! It is a good opportunity, it is a good opportunity to discuss today, to tell us whether these millions of euros will be repaid, because it seems that you are not even paying interest. Your loans have gone to the bank's basement. So you're gonna pay for it? One of you let us answer! Let me say you're the most indebted party in Europe. There's no more. You are the most indebted party in Europe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u348	And the biggest!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u349	Please, ladies and gentlemen! A while ago, we thought the Minister wouldn't be interrupted? Don't interrupt the speaker.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u350	You won't interrupt me because I've been waiting for an hour! Do you doubt that you're a debited party? You don't owe EUR 362 million?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u351	But the biggest party!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u352	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u353	Do you owe EUR 362 million? You're gonna pay for it? Let a minister answer us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u354	Please, go on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u355	So let us come to the 2022 budget you presented to us. It's based on two, obviously fraudulent mistakes, assumptions from you. The first admission is that pandemic has expired and the second assumption is that the wave of appreciations and accuracy is transient. I do not think a Member of Parliament here - at least in relation to the reality - should believe that. I understand, of course, that you must be protected because you committed yourself to the mid-term that you voted on in June in a budget adjustment of nine units over a period of just two years, a budgetary adjustment that Greece has not lived since 2013, that is, in the hardest memorandum years. And what you have voted on, what you have committed yourself, what you wish to do as Mr Stagioras said, will only be achieved with dramatic economic and social consequences and an explosion of inequalities. We must, however, remind you here of what the people are experiencing out there, of what the average citizen is experiencing and not the VIP, of what small and medium-sized enterprises and the self-employed, and not only 0.48% of the companies' VAT, that is to say, of the members of BSE, but of what 90% of the people who have no assets or who owes banks more than they have or not have 10% of the population that has 50% of Greece's wealth. So, what are you going to do about public health, about the public health system, with this budget that we are discussing? You're not doing anything at all. You reduce the funding of the Ministry of Health by EUR 820 million and you come here and tell us that this is not the case. It was not the previous budget 5.162,000 euros and you are now making it 4,341,000,000 euros? We're reading wrong! We're reading another budget! You reduce the funding of hospitals and primary health by EUR 360 million and of course you will not hire. You do not anticipate permanent recruitment. And why are you doing this? You have said that you do not want and do not believe in a luxurious public health system. You only believe in a luxurious private health system, in what you and your havings can go. We have proved this with your last infamous amendment, which excludes uninsured and vulnerable social groups from being able to prescribe private doctors. This proves to be your only concern is the private health system. That's what you want to make luxurious. That's what you want to favour. But the pandemic isn't over. Yesterday we had a record of victims: a hundred thirty deaths, seven hundred permeated, nineteen and a half thousand deaths to this day. We have complaints from both doctors and health workers about unacceptable working conditions and hospitalization. We have today reports to the D.A.'s attorney that remain vacant, and hundreds of our fellow humans are intact outside of the I.C.E. They took these complaints to the prosecutor today. And yes, finally what the Prime Minister said from this moment on, that hospitalizing someone outside of the ICU is not dangerous compared to the one who is hospitalized within the ICU, was a great lie. It wasn't Mr. Mitsotakis' renegade. It was a lie. Mr. Mitsotakis lied to you, lied to us, said to the Greek people lies, and this was proved today by the study by Mr. Tsiodra and Mr. Lytras who came out in public, a study that this government had in its drawers since May. And why did he lie? Because for Mr. Mitsotakis, it's not a problem to die out of my mind. It is not a problem that the study suggests that non-MET hospitalisation is associated with an increased 87% mortality. It is no problem that the public health system cannot function properly and provide its services when it has more than four hundred seams. It is no problem that according to the study a thousand and thirty - thirty - five people would escape if they were hospitalized within the ICM at a low load of the ERC. Mr President, I would like one more minute to finish. I waited an hour for the ministers to talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u356	On the subject.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u357	Mr. Loading, why are you shouting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u358	On this subject he should speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u359	I am talking about this. Is the EUR 820 million less in the 2022 budget out of the question?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u360	Mr. Loading, that's not allowed. Let the MPs say what they want. We're all rated, you and us. Everyone has the freedom to speak as he wants from the Step of the House. Continue, Mrs. Eleftheriadou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u361	As far as the truth is concerned, you do nothing essential to deal with it. EUR 523 million for electricity bills and EUR 90 million for heating premiums, which are not from the state budget, but from the Fund for Renewable Energy Rights, is not even sufficient. Only EUR 1 billion is estimated to be the cost for citizens of electricity bills, as if you had no accuracy in basic living and food goods. You're making fun of the pensioners, of course, with this allowance you give them, while you cut them the social dividend, you cut them the thirteenth pension. You're kidding the sanitation. You give them a gift of 250 euros while you don't pay them overtime, you completely left them helpless in the midst of a pandemic, you slandered them, you slandered them. You're making fun of the disabled, the C.E.L.D. You are cutting 50 million euros from the expenditure on SME policies and you are putting 250 euros to the beneficiaries of the RESERVE. You keep the minimum wage fixed. You are reducing social spending by EUR 1.7 billion. And, of course, you are providing this budget with additional tax revenues of EUR 3.5 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u362	Mrs. Comrade, finish it up. You've been in ten minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u363	I shall conclude, Mr President. It is obvious that a large proportion of our fellow citizens will experience conditions of material deprivation, especially in view of the fact that annual price increases for households' inflexible costs are far greater than inflation, which is far greater than 4.8%. For housing is 17.7% and for transport 9.3%. Your policy is judged by the results. How many more dead do you want to accept that you failed? How many unemployed? How many bankrupt small and medium-sized enterprises? How many homeless families? Your budget is a budget of uncertainty, insecurity and inequality. Fortunately, he will be your last because the citizens will make you off. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u364	Mr. Pericles Mandas has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u365	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, your party blindfolds and ideological claws unfortunately do not allow you to see what has happened in the last two and a half years in our country, what progress has been made in our country over the past two and a half years in all areas, especially the economy, since we are talking about the budget today. You can't fit your mind, you can't imagine how a small country like Greece after ten years of monuments, with pandemic in excitement, with the economic crisis that this pandemic has created, this year manages to have 6.9% growth. It cannot fit into your mind that Greece will recover and cover the entire pandemic mess in 2022. You cannot understand that. You cannot understand how it is possible for our country to find and have covered entrepreneurship, families, farmer, the new generation in the krone pandemic with 40 billion euros. You cannot understand how it is possible to borrow at negative rates. It cannot fit your mind how, with such an energy crisis, inflation in our country can be below the average of the European Union, much lower and from stronger and stronger economies. You cannot accept the fact that, with pandemic, with the crisis, companies not working have reduced unemployment by four points. I really understand you. You're on an absolute dead end. And you come here to talk to us about supposedly social inequality created by our policy. And you talk about inequality when you are the same cynically admitting that you targeted the middle class, that you dissolved the most creative, most productive, most developmental part of Greek society. You come here and you talk to us about the work inspection and you say that we have turned the Ministry of Labour into an employer ministry. And I ask you: The fine for the undeclared work of EUR 10,500 which government has introduced it? How interesting is this fine for employers? What did you do when that fine came? You voted against it, and you know very well that it is the only measure that has managed to reduce undeclared work by 40% when it was introduced, in a one-digit number. You come here talking to us about unfinished pensions, which when you were a government had you over ten questions in the House to finally say how many unfinished pensions are, and you never responded because you were locked in drawers and you were not involved. You had other more serious things to do! You came here to tell us about PPC, when you handed over PPC one step before bankruptcy, at a price of EUR 1 on the stock exchange, with billions of losses. And in two and a half years, her stock exchange value has been tenfold and she has reached the point that she can be standing today to support Greek citizens in the energy crisis they are experiencing. And the top one, you came to tell us about forest maps too, to observe us! The S.H.E.'s decision. Did you see the abortion you had built? You know, ladies and gentlemen, all this and more that we have corrected these two and a half years has not been magically done. They were because, from the first day on, we have implemented a specific development policy, which, unfortunately, has prevailed throughout the world and is the only medicine in all that the planet is experiencing today. And it was mainly because we trusted the Greek citizens, trusted their strength and created an environment so that they could liberate this power, become productive for their homeland, for their families and achieve things for our country. Because in the end we have created them an environment that they can trust us, trust the state, with all these reforms that have taken place in recent years. I had another speech prepared. Evidently with what I heard, I can't place myself. I am very sorry that you do not at least have the political emotiveness to admit what the whole world sees, what everyone in Greece and abroad now sees, and to be able to move together, in order to deal with all the difficulties that are really great, especially at this time. Because the energy crisis is here, it will continue for a few more months, the pandemic is here, it is mutating and we need to be united so that we can really deal with all these difficulties. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u366	Thank you. Mr. Theodore Dritsas has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u367	Mr. Manda, two months after Mr. Hatzidakis took over the relevant Ministry and had announced from the first moment that PPC was bankrupt, to undermine and sell it, as the company of sworn auditors of high prestige, an international company, submitted its study that also came to Parliament - and Mr. Hatzidakis was irreparably exposed - which analysed and demonstrated that PPC has only a financial deficit because of the loan and otherwise it is absolutely viable and with a development perspective. If you want to sell the public property like this, don't find cheap excuses. Ladies and gentlemen, in every budget debate I have been watching for many decades now, each government has one advantage: it says its arguments, it says a number of things. In the 1990s and the 2000s we intended to listen to the evidence that Greece was moving on to growth, progressing to global competition. Indeed, at the time, we were in the forty first countries in wealth, but not distributed and not sustainable. We've lived through this. And the bankruptcy came, which the little left then, because it has been studied, since 2008 here, in this Chamber, we had announced to you and you considered us teratologists. Give me a brain. The Greek society is suffering. You have called for the country, and now with the pandemic, which is obviously not your fault, you do not want to understand that public intervention in both economic and social matters and everything is the primary, as is the recovery pact but also the sustainability pact, with which we disagree on many things and, of course, on your own proposals. But here in this debate on the budget of 2022 we have in front of us and in pandemic conditions the perspective of 2030, where with regard to the arrangements achieved by the SYRIZA Government for a pathway towards a smooth transition of low debt service, 2030 changes things if there is no change in Europe's hard capitalism. And now you come here, with all this painful wisdom that the societies and everyone have gained, tell us that you don't need to strengthen public health? A basic prerequisite is the social state for any development course. But you have allergy to public investment and public development planning. And that's our huge difference. You drive in 2030, with this budget policy, in new bankruptcy. If things do not change internationally and if the Greek Government does not change soon, we are really leading to new bankruptcy. We've lived through this. Don't make fun of yourself and obviously more not to make fun of the world. From this point of view, the report and the study by the teachers of Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytras since May 2021 is not a simple bell, because this report, apart from the tragic conclusion that 87% of the deaths of non-MTOs are increasing, says something else, that even if the pandemic is quickly over, its consequences will last a long time, because these consequences are very deep in both psychism and family organization and many other things. They don't talk about the economy, Chiodra and Lytra, talk about health, and that it takes a long-term plan to address not only the pandemic now, but also its consequences for many years ahead. And with the 'inconvenient' - I stress all three - the alpha and the micronomic and final micron - Mr Mitsotakis, while he had the study of Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytra - he showed how irresponsible he is and how lame the policy he wants to pursue, the communication policy - came here to question the product of the common social experience. We did not need the study by Mr Tsiodra and Mr Lytras to know that other things are the level and quality of the health service provided within ICUs and other outside ICUs. And yet he said that too, he didn't miss him in the hole of speech. He's already caused us to challenge Mr. Tsipras with impudence. Why? Why didn't he read the report? I don't know if he'd read it or not. But why, with the stress of spending pandemics rather than confronting it - in fact, is an informal choice of the known method of herd immunity - on this basis how to justify that 800 million less are given to health in this year's budget?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u368	Finish it, Mr. Dritsa. Let me tell you, there are twenty colleagues and two Undersecretaries, and with a minimum of time we get 1.30 at night. Please warmly, last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u369	Excuse me, please. It's the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u370	No, I have to defend Members' rights. Finish it, Mr. Dritsa. I don't want any advice, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u371	...and other MPs, and other Members of the Right... The Bureau didn't defend it...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u372	Finish and don't beg me. I will apply the Rules of Procedure as set out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u373	Please, I will conclude very briefly, but without interruption, please. Change policy now, if you can, it's catastrophic. We're going to the defense issues that I'm responsible for. It is not possible for the majority rapporteur, Mr Theodoros Rousopoulos, to say - I will not distort him, nor will I make use of it, but he has said it and he knows that he has said it - that 'our country, poorly, but forced to participate in a armaments race'. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Rousopoulos is an honest colleague and knows very well what he is saying. That's all we're gonna take? Last year, 2 billion - and over 2 billion - another 1 billion billion this year and over the next few years much more for equipment. Do they ensure adequate defence? Oh, no. They are part of the armaments race that has nothing to do with the country's defence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u374	And with this, Mr. Dritsa, look at your watch.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u375	In this respect, therefore, and with 2030 ahead, you are very dangerous with this policy that you are conducting, too dangerous. And, of course, it is certain that the Greek people now understand the error of the facts you are trying to pass and they no longer trust you. That's why it's crucial that there's a confrontation to deal with the pandemic so that your unreliability can be overcome. There's no other way. Universal vaccination requires a credible political system and not a political one, like that of Mr Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u376	Please take care of the Step. I think you all see that if everyone goes ten minutes, then we'll be done at three o'clock in the morning. Make me an account with the number you said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u377	Good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u378	No, Mr. Skourletis, don't welcome that. Do not welcome this because today's debate has been turned into parliamentary scrutiny. The State Secretary to the Prime Minister, Christos Triantopoulos, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u379	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a great honour to be at the Step of the Greek Parliament and to address the House for the first time, especially, when my first presence is in the budget debate tabled by the Minister of Finance and the financial staff with whom we worked closely in the previous two years. We are therefore discussing the state budget for the year 2022, the content of which comes to reflect the significant recovery of the Greek economy in 2021, as a result of State aid to deal with the pandemic, but also structural reforms implemented without interruption, without slowing down. It is a budget that includes reforms and policies which, balanced between economic efficiency and social justice, lead to a change in the domestic production model and a high rate of growth. It includes efficient use of resources, tools and procedures to support public policies. It also includes funding for managing the new data created by the climate crisis. Ladies and gentlemen, the climate crisis is unfortunately a fact. It is a crisis that makes the occurrence of extreme weather phenomena more unlikely and more intense than in the past. In Greece, in recent years we have experienced these results. Strong flooding phenomena, large forest fires, heat, unexpected frosts and other extreme weather phenomena, which used to appear sporadic, now appear with more frequency. These phenomena, as we live in an earthquake area, are unfortunately also added to the earthquakes. These are phenomena that test the strengths of the infrastructure, which affect households, businesses, farms, but which are also crucially burdening the natural environment. At the end of the day, of course, they are burdening the budget. Against this new data, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis implements a holistic strategy based on three pillars. The first pillar is the development of conditions of sustainable, green development, a pillar with important initiatives to mitigate the conditions that have led us to the climate crisis. There are many initiatives, such as degreasing, offshore wind power, the cyclical economy, our island energy autonomy, the adoption of green bond and, of course, the new climate law. The second pillar concerns the prevention, treatment and resilience of natural disasters, with a key role of the new Ministry, the Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, following the significant strengthening of civil protection over the past two years, with emphasis, inter alia, on anti-nuclear protection, anti-military armour, as well as innovative procedures and prevention and anticipation tools. The third pillar is the framework for support and rehabilitation after a natural disaster, which has changed over the last decade. Initially, the philosophy, based on the dual objective, has changed, the support to reach those who deserve it and the restoration to be carried out as soon as possible. On this basis, the framework of state aid has been formulated and enriched, a change that has arisen and evolved through experience in the field. Continuous presence in the field is a key component of our new philosophy. This allows contact with local communities, settlement of issues and ensuring that the measures implemented are implemented. The first step, therefore, of the reform concerned enterprises and took place at the beginning of 2021. Now, within a few weeks, companies can receive an advance and in the next few months, they can receive the final grant that can reach up to 70% of the estimated loss, when in the former scheme companies received only 30%, after three, four or more years. It is now a framework for rural farms, covering gaps and pathogens of the past. It is worth noting that within a few weeks companies received an advance in 'January' areas in Samos and elsewhere, while in four months a final business grant decision was published in the firefighting north of Evia. So last summer, then, the next step of the reform effort was also taken, introducing first aid reinforcement through a single digital platform. It is uniform because, not only is it about businesses or farms, but it has been extended to housing and to the compensation for households' construction. The reform effort is therefore a dynamic process in which all the components of the state aid mechanism are adapted to the new philosophy, an effort that goes ahead in the fields of housing aid, construction compensation and compensation in the primary sector. It goes with emphasis on digitisation, speed and justice. It shall go through measures and through the continuous enrichment of the measures, support shall meet the needs created in any case. This whole process of development is being carried out in parallel with its implementation, with the implementation of the support and rehabilitation framework. In fact, we are changing the framework as we implement it, because the needs are here, they are pressing and they are strong. These needs have a significant budgetary burden, which is inelastic. In recent years, the relevant ministries have been able to respond to this challenge and, for example, it is worth looking at in some cases at the financial impact, as shaped by the allocations and allocations of resources, through the credit commitments and through the approvals of funding. (SO) The total burden so far arises for the Jano Mediterranean Cyclone, near EUR 800 million, for the Samos earthquake near EUR 125 million, for the firefighting north of Evia near EUR 230 million, for the Crete earthquake near EUR 225 million. They are resources quite important if the other natural disasters in these figures are taken into account, resources that will be increased as restoration continues, resources basically national, as support from the European Union Solidarity Fund does not meet the needs created. For example, for the 'January' of EUR 800 million, support from the fund was only EUR 22 million. Ladies and gentlemen, in conclusion, the climate crisis is here, it is an unpleasant reality that has changed the data, new data on which we should all be harmonized at national, European and international level. At national level, the government has done so. The budget includes the tools and resources for these needs, for the needs that have been created in 2021 before and for the needs that may arise within the year before us, so that the state is next to the citizen, the farmer, business directly and fairly, for the restoration, reconstruction and development of sites and forests, needs that are an opportunity for a better next day for our regions and fellow citizens who have been affected. To this end, we will continue intensively in cooperation with all stakeholders. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u380	Thank you too, Minister, for the consistency in time. Mr Christos Kelles has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u381	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget signals our country's transition from the stage of strong economic recovery in 2021 to a era of sustainable development after the last difficult decade of crises and pandemic that marked not only Greece but also the world as a whole. Our government has handled every challenge with remarkable efficiency, making the country a world standard. The greatest success of the Mitsotakis government is that it has removed pandemic with determination, while supporting the economy and reversed the recession in the global health crisis. From the first moment on, we have simplified a resilient social protection net and worked constantly, voting for critical reforms that fuelled growth. Our strategy is reflected in the 2022 budget, a budget with a strong social profile and innovation to improve our budget performance on a stable basis. With regard to the main macroeconomic figures, following the recession of 9% of GDP caused by the health crisis, growth rate for 2021 is revised to 7% and further growth of 4.5% of GDP is predicted in 2022. Unemployment has declined from 16.5% to 13% and long-term unemployment has declined in particular. Our economy is showing considerable resistance to inflationary pressures, in the last positions of the euro area, while in 2022 inflation is estimated at 0.8%. The government's greatest achievement, however, is that positive macroeconomic data are framed by social support measures. In the health field, the pandemic was the occasion to revive the ESS after ten years of monuments. We have exploited every opportunity to upgrade the health services provided to the citizens by recruiting 12 000 staff in nursing and paramedical, four thousand doctors, while more than doubled the intensive care beds. In 2022, 30% of total appointments will be made to health with six thousand staff and total health expenditure will be increased to EUR 12 billion, reaching 6.3% of GDP. In the field of rural development, the government has produced important work to support the primary sector and we are entering a new era for the rural economy and the development of the region. The rural world is at the heart of the Prime Minister's interest, as we have seen in practice with 'January', the frost and earthquakes in Larissa Prefecture, where there was an unprecedented response to the state mechanism and the compensation provided for. Our farmers saw after five years the problem of compensation for bluetongue being solved by the Ministry of Rural Development and felt that there was a state on their side. We did our promise and we carry out intensive checks on the Greekizations and the illusion of products. Especially for feta, we imposed the largest fines that have ever been and the producers have seen the price of sheep's milk rising by 50%. We have reduced the tax rate for farmers from 22% to 9% and the income tax for rural enterprises from 28% to 22%. The tax rate for cooperative schemes went to 10%. We have reduced insurance contributions and HOPIA, VAT on animal feed from 13% to 6%, and it has been decided to refund the excise duty on oil for young farmers and cooperative members for 2022. However, this measure on agricultural oil, Minister, is right to apply to all farmers. At the same time, the leadership of the Ministry of Rural Development managed by tough negotiations to maintain the figure of 19.3 billion. The new CAP has been reduced by about 15% for all the other European countries. And here I am going to deal with a big issue, Mr Screka, the question of electricity prices because of the imported energy crisis. PPC's accounts with the adjustment clause now make production inconsistent. The agricultural world is a resurrection, and we must of course say that the government is making a serious effort in subsidising electricity consumption to cover part of the increase in tariffs. However, the problem is strong for households, but especially for farmers who are anxiously awaiting further intervention from the government, even from the Prime Minister himself. As far as the investment sector is concerned, our country has managed to attract strategic investments from global colleges since there is systematic work by the joint ministries to simplify legislation, improve the investment environment and strengthen digital governance. According to European Commission estimates, in 2022 Greece will record the second highest growth in investment in Europe, as well as the highest rate of exports. At the same time, we have set as a priority the strengthening of national security policy. The government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis succeeded with the pandemic to address the Turkish challenge decisively by developing a model, I would say, a combination of foreign and defence policy. Upgrade of the Armed Forces’ equipment by modern means is included in the budget that has been significantly strengthened in this category of expenditure. I shall conclude, Mr President. Finally, the budget makes use of European resources secured by the Government through the Recovery Fund and the NSRF 2021 - 2027. Cash assets are safe and the national recovery and durability plan “ELLADA 2.0” limits the consequences of the pandemic. The Public Investment Programme and the National Recovery Plan in 2022 will make public investment EUR 11 billion. The euro, which has not happened before in the last decade. Ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, can I remind you what you said in last year's debate on the budget for 2021? Do You Remember? You don't want to remember. How about the destruction of Greece, what about poverty and much more? What happened, ladies and gentlemen, in 2021? Nothing at all. Thank God. And I say "happily" for Greece. You disproved 100%. In closing, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget leads Greece to a new era of growth and reform, during which the national economy becomes more competitive, with more and better jobs and more modern infrastructure. I urge you to vote in favour of the budget. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u382	Thank you too, Mr Kelles, for the consistency in time. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor, George Born for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u383	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is in the midst of an evolving tragedy and has the double chance of this tragedy evolving under the light of an impatient government and an impatient Prime Minister. We're talking about the foreign rider of power, the fanatical excurrator of communication, the man who dreamed he'd become king. Look, just thirteen days ago, the Prime Minister from here at the Step officially stated that he has no research evidence in mind showing that mortality outside the ICM is greater than within the ICMs. It was just at the same time that Mr. Scorchos had no research evidence showing that priests and bishops are transmitting the virus. Throughout the Maximus Mansion, this veil of ignorance had fallen. They had no evidence to know. And today a report by Mr. Tsiodra and Mr. Lytra comes to the public to prove that the Prime Minister knew and misunderstood that there is evidence that 87% more is mortality outside the ICM! And what is the Prime Minister's answer? What is the government's answer? And the question is this: In any other country what happens now - and it is not the first time - what would happen? How much longer will this poaching democracy last? Something that's not transmitted by the media, the big media, it doesn't exist. The Greek people will never know! At the same time that, due to the fact that this blackout has fallen, however, within this climate, jobs are still going on. Business asUSal. For workers in hospitals, cleaning and storage, no fixed-term contracts shall be renewed. There is a three-month extension in order to complete the procedures for entering the pandemic - certainly the government and Mr.Mitsotakis have discounted three times the end of the pandemic - so that contractors, brokers and tenants will enter the hospitals, restore the status of the gallery for the workers and lose the public 70 million annually. And can I tell you something else? The government ordered two thousand monoclonal doses. If he put all the 70 million that the public will now lose because of the contractors, how much would he buy monoclonal doses? Do you know what today's government says? At some point the pandemic will pass, I don't know how many other fellow citizens we will lose, let it be assimilated and there will be a moment that will organise a series of communist, as happened in Evia, and it will be able to glean again that we didn't do so well last summer, then it will say "We didn't do so well last winter." However, it will be the fiesta underneath, which will spontaneously rise and say, "Happily the godss-suppressed ministers have come to us." In other words, we will come to the point of wishing for further calamities to be brought to us so that the 'godly' ministers can come. Now we're going to the pandemic of the economy. I hear here from the non papers that Members of the New Democracy are recognizing from the Step that, for example, energy increases are a slight wave of the global trend towards an increase in energy prices. But we're not talking about wavery here. This is tsunami. Here, gentlemen, I have PPC accounts showing livestock businesses that paid 6 to 6.5 thousand a month to reach December at 19,000 a month. And here's in writing, 1,700 euros in consumption. It reaches the clause - as PPC calls it - an additional 4,000 euros in December, when the feed has reached the god, not that god, but probably that god who sends the "gods" Ministers, the prices of the feed have reached a fall in the price of the meat by 10 or 20 minutes. How will these businesses survive? How will they survive? So the Minister for Development comes here and states that there is no increase in any product, there is no increase. Mr. Adonis Georgiadis said so. Is there even a "god" in here who believes there is no increase? Is there someone? And can I tell you something? There is a survey, not of SYRIZA, but of Piraeus University of Economics, which says that six out of ten consumers consider Christmas to be the Christmas expense as compared to last 2020. 15% say they won't spend anything. Others say 23% will spend up to 50 euros and another 15% to 100 euros. Well, what's going on here? What's going on here? Is Mr. Mitsotakis going to make some communication fiestas, and they're all going to go to the stores to increase consumption? You all disguise numbers that prosper, while the citizens, according to your favourite investigations, are unable to go to the market and shop. Look at that. You may think that your breads will never eat, you will not finish, you will eat your breads. But reality cannot be replaced by virtual reality. If that happens, we'll talk about some other kind of Orwell situation. The Prime Minister presented the other day to Yannina as returning young people from abroad, while it was announced that Greek citizens in Britain have reached the three hundred thousand, a child, who is well, but happens his father has a factory, and here the rest of the thousands of parents who have their children abroad feel guilty because they don't have a factory to turn the children back. Are you serious?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u384	Hang up, Mr. Barrett.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u385	Yes, Mr. President. Do you think that, because you are to those who have the power, have you secured the consent, the others you will control them, the weak will you control them with communication and propaganda? Don't you suspect that this is going to end at some point and might be a day at noon and, indeed, a dala at noon?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u386	Thank you, Mr. Barrett. The floor is now, after the Stepma is settled, the New Democracy MP, Mrs Stergiani (Stras) Biziou for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u387	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, since the recovery of 2021, on a dynamic development path for 2022, with guides to private consumption, investment and exports. In other words, in 2022 private consumption is projected to increase by 3%, investment by 21.9% and exports by 11.1%, while unemployment is expected to close this year to 14.2%. For the second consecutive year the budget is drawn up under the uncertainties, an uncertainty created by the multiple challenges facing the country, such as immigration and pressure on our borders, unprecedented natural disasters - floods, fires and earthquakes - and, of course, pandemic together with international economic developments. Despite the many and serious adversities mentioned above, and this budget does not derogate from our Government's philosophy of the economic and development model that we envision for the country, a model of liberal, reformative and socially sound. The twenty-two months of a health crisis have not blocked our reform programme. On the contrary, we have prepared methodically the recovery of the next day and the return of the country to a development path, implementing our programme for investment acceleration, reduction of taxes and insurance contributions, digitisation of the state, modernisation of justice and transition to a greener economy. EUR 43 billion was spent in support of the real economy and society, making Greece the first among the Eurozone countries at state budget spending as a percentage of GDP to deal with the pandemic. Our policies have been justified and there are results that are measurable and tangible that proves it. It demonstrates this that since the 9% recession that we recorded in 2020, we close in 2021 at a growth rate of 7% and cover two thirds the losses recorded by GDP. It is evidenced by the confidence shown in our country by large foreign investors such as MICROSOT, PFIZER, CISCO, AMAZON. It demonstrates that we are the first in Europe to prevent unemployment. In September 2020, unemployment in the country was 16.5%, while in September 2021 it fell to 13%. Within twelve months, with pandemic, an additional hundred thousand eight hundred, thirty - nine fellow citizens joined the labour force of our country. The next day is only the continuation of a proven successful policy, the integration of the digital transition, the development of the green economy, the strengthening of employment and social cohesion and the attraction of private investment. The 2022 budget, based on this philosophy, is designed to give further impetus to the Greek economy. How? By taking development measures that improve the investment environment and strengthen households, by reducing the tax rate of legal persons from 24% to 22%, and by reducing from 28% to 24%, by extending the exemption from the special solidarity levy in 2022, by extending and by 2022 the reduction of insurance contributions by three units, by reducing the gross revenues of small and medium-sized enterprises from expenditure on green economy, energy and digital transformation, by reducing the rate of return of all repayable advances, by exempting from the special levy on the solidarity of private sector workers, reduced VAT rates for transport, coffee, non-alcoholic beverages, cinemas and tourism, by increasing the minimum wage, as the Prime Minister has already announced. Our economy has the most powerful development tool in recent years: The resources from the Greek Recovery and Resilience Plan, which will finance climate crisis projects, energy, public health projects, green transition, digital transition, employment and skills building. They are projects that enhance the country's competitiveness and upgrade our economy. The most vital part of society is young people. The Prime Minister himself is the head of the effort made by the country to repatriate our young people who have stayed out of the years of the crisis, but also to offer equal opportunities for knowledge, for education, for work, for creation to those who stayed here. The abolition of the parental and donation tax of 800,000 euros, the extension of the housing allowance of 1,000 euros to students in public IKK, the support of young people without work experience for the first six months with the "First Mind" action are actions that give young people the lead that opens them the door to the labour market, which support them at the start of their lives. The difficulties, of course, are not over. Challenges and adversities are perhaps the only firm thing in politics. The most recent challenge that has come to be added to the existing ones is the energy crisis, a phenomenon that is exogenous and global, which inevitably affects us. Our government reacted immediately and with targeted measures it absorbed the consequences, protecting Greek households. It provided the electricity bills, established a heating allowance with extended income and assets, which is expected to cover 80% of households who will consume the subsidised forms of fuel. It suspended the fees for network use for all domestic consumers of natural gas. It suspended the charge of public utility services on agricultural and industrial tariffs for a period of five months, namely from 1 November 2021 to 31 March 2022. The minimum guaranteed income is paid to all beneficiaries. EUR 250 additional aid is granted to eight hundred thousand low-pensions. EUR 90 million is distributed to a hundred thousand health workers from hospitals, health centres and the EMCDDA. We are talking, in other words, about interventions of more than EUR 1 billion which concern only the energy crisis. However, what has been demonstrated by the governance of the last two years and is strengthened through this budget is that the New Democracy has a way of dealing with maliciousness and bringing our country back to the path of prosperity. The state budget is one of the most important instruments for achieving our national development objectives. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget marks a definitive change of page for the Greek economy. It marks the transition to a powerful economy based on competitiveness and extroversion. It marks the creation of a new development model with privatisations, infrastructure investments, attracting foreign direct investment, financing entrepreneurship and strengthening investment laws. We build an economy that will create equal opportunities and wealth for all. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u388	Thank you, Mrs Biziu, and the consistency in time. The honourable Member now has the floor, Mr. Andreas Poulas, from the Change Movement for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u389	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the government is bringing its third budget to its vote. After 2020, which was overturned by the global health crisis and 2021, which depicted the consequences of the global economic recession that followed, you are presenting us with a budget that you have baptized as a return to normality. Beyond the optimistic predictions and numbers, we must give shape to the regularity you are evangelizing. Because before the coronary we did not live in an angelic paradise last year, we did not experience growth and prosperity, the citizens did not feel optimism and security. On the contrary, we have come out of a ten-year economic crisis with a decline in GDP, a deterioration in living standards and a reduction in life expectancy by two years, with the same few small and medium-sized ones regulating economic life, with the same obsolete and problematic growth model and with great social inequalities. Is that what you mean to be normal? Promise recovery with the implementation of the National Recovery and Resilience Plan, which is expected to bring many billions of euros into the Greek market. But until today, we haven't seen anything. On the contrary, there is provision in the 2022 budget for an increase in State revenue by increasing taxation by 3.5 billion and reducing State expenditure by 5 billion. At the same time, the citizen's available income is the last in Europe's twenty-seven, last in Bulgaria. At the moment, the accuracy and the indirect taxes are releasing all the benefits of the measures that you have taken to deal with the pandemic. In addition to your economic performance, the Greek society is going through an era of uncertainty and insecurity, a social middle-aged with depositaries of all kinds, superstitions and irrationalities, but also overturning the most self-evident individual rights, with the launch of energy prices due to the energy crisis and geopolitical competitions, with extreme weather phenomena due to the climate crisis and a management of pandemic to date, both economically and health, which does not inspire optimism for which you celebrate. In two years of pandemic, which does not seem to escape soon, we wonder exactly what your vision of health is. So far, all we've seen is that this long-term sector is being treated superficially, with an invasive mood, without any long-term planning, without opening up your papers on where you want to drive the country's health system. The National Health System, despite its shortcomings and weaknesses, has a very leading role in the management of the pandemic. And what exactly do you do to support it? Your mistakes are due to ignorance, incompetence or to luxury? Just wait till the pandemic bounce passes in order to carry out your plans to privatize it? That is why the budget does not see its practical support. The figures presented to us are questioned, they have different readings from all the different sides of the House. This means that the government does not intend to support substantially the regeneration of the National Health System. Since 1983, PASOK has been aimed at continuous improvement of the system, so that all citizens can be given uninterrupted access to public health free of charge. We find that the Government of New Democracy has other health plans that will affect our vulnerable and unprivileged fellow citizens. I hear your MPs thank you here, from the Step of the House, doctors and nurses for their offer. But where is your practical support for health personnel, which is tired, weakened continues to fight on the front line? What have you done for its graduation, coverage of shortages, its integration into heavy and unhealthy, all the fair demands you have occasionally submitted? You're constantly showing staff recruitment numbers and personal news we don't see. The same is true of intensive care units. You are constantly talking about increasing them, a word that in itself does not say anything. We do not, of course, disagree with the increase in the MDGs. The question, however, is whether these are well-equipped and staffed with the necessary skilled personnel. Because, as you know, the rule says that where there are well-equipped and intensified intensive treatment units - and such units exist only in the centre - mortality falls to 40% to 50%. The situation is still tragic in the district hospitals. Let's not talk about the mortality of those who are hospitalized intrused outside of the ICU. You also saw, if you hadn't already considered it, the study and the fact that the non-IT hospitalization is related to 87% increased mortality. Despite any epidemiological assessments, the forecasts of specialists and health needs that have been established, you have not yet shown your intentions of primary health care and of organised involvement in pre-private management of patients. At the same time, it is not possible for the government to state its intention to permanently declare four thousand priests, and it is well doing, but on the other hand, to refuse to permanentize the ancillary staff serving in the ERC. Finally, you have no intention of helping the region recover and create balanced development conditions with the urban centres in the country. There is no political intention of creating a single hospital, with modern infrastructure, which will cover sanitaryly a county with high tourism products all year round. Farmers have been condemned to economic decline, due to the reduced prices and the problems of the disposal of citrus fruits, which, in combination with the increased electricity prices and agricultural supplies, creates an explosive mixture. Infrastructure projects such as the Argolis road link with the Corinth-Tripoliou highway, the Ligurios-Kranidios road axis and the extension of the Anavalos network for the water supply of Ermionida do not seem to go any further. The project of temporary waste management in the Peloponnese Region, while it was to be implemented at the end of November, is again referred to the bells. Air pollution in Nafplio, with the operation of the fireworks, still exists. The problem of water shortages in Argolida remains unresolved too. Ladies and gentlemen, without the virtual reality promised by the government with projects, investments and development that are not being implemented, the time-lag with which it responds to the challenges and without compromising and targeting ways of managing problems leave society stubborn, restless and deeply concerned. While public health should be at the top of your priorities and that should be reflected in this budget, you are doing exactly the opposite because you do not believe in the ESS. You do not invest in the social state, you do not aim to reduce inequalities and redistribution of wealth, for everything that has been fought by PASOK and for all that has been identified.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u390	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u391	I shall conclude, Mr President. So you will leave us no more room than to vote against a budget completely inconsistent with the criticality of the health crisis and the needs of the country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u392	Thank you, too. Now the New Democracy MP, Mr Philippos Loading. Mr. Loading, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u393	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Ministers, the New Democracy Government demonstrates every day that it aims, has a plan and is committed to it. The interventions made since the beginning of the health crisis, the strengthening of professionals and businesses, as well as the proper management of the country's budget, despite any difficulties, have naturally brought fruitful fruits. In the 2022 budget pages, this overall effort is clearly apparent, as well as the government's planning and satisfactory results for Greece's transition to the new era. A few months ago in this Chamber we were discussing the medium-term and the objectives set by the New Democracy Government for the next few years. What we have committed, ladies and gentlemen, is achieved day after day and cannot even deny it, but neither can we recognise the progress we have made as a country. We had talked about growth and, of course, the growth rate of the Greek economy is being revised and, in 2022, it is estimated at 4.5%. We had talked about reducing unemployment. The unemployment rate has already decreased significantly by around 3% from 2020 to 2021. We talked about debt reduction. The forecast is that it will decrease from 205% of GDP in 2020 to 190%, while the deficit will be reduced to -0.9 %. But, ladies and gentlemen, we have fallen out of something. We've fallen out on the predictions of cumulative growth. Because it will be higher by 1.6% than originally anticipated. Ladies and gentlemen, in recent years we have worked very hard on both the government and society. Nothing happened at all. Work, work, work. This is the tripartite part of our success. Because of the pandemic conditions, economic inequalities have become more pronounced and the demands of both citizens and entrepreneurs are greater. However, the country has been lagging behind for years in investment in various sectors, such as telecommunications, energy and transport, where monopolies and oligopoly prevailed. The circumstances did not favour the development of production and extroversion. So someone had to find themselves with the necessary perseverance - I would say - with realistic but also practicable reforms, moving towards economic liberation, innovation and extroversion, green development and sustainability. And he is no more than today's Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Government of New Democracy. So all of us have dared and dared daily to go against establishments and chronic diseases. With the measures taken by our government, we also facilitate competition and entry and investment development. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the only way to make a real increase in incomes. As the Deputy Minister of Finance Mr Besiropoulos is in our seats, we must congratulate him, because the Government of the New Democracy, but also the leadership and staff of his Ministry, have won a very great battle, a battle of almost two and a half years, with the unanimous decision of the European Union and Ecofin to restore the reduced VAT rates on the Aegean islands. This is an integration which, for the first time, exists in an international text and relates to requests from Greek governments over time. And this is our success. A battle which has been lost by the SYRIZA - ANEL government unfortunately, committing a historic injustice - I would say - with a huge impact on all islanders. So we are once again applying the reduction of taxes with all of this. Yeah, tax reduction! This is more important. The Government of New Democracy, loyal to its own commitments to the maintenance of social cohesion, but also with respect to island Greece and the country, its inhabitants primarily and in the struggle they are giving every day, has today brought about a result which vindicates all of us. And of course it also deserves the confidence that the Greek citizens have shown us. In these two years of our governance we have promoted a large number of reforms, as we had promised by election. That's why they trusted us. So what's the point? In order to relieve the Greek people of this great state, which is a pathogen for Greek politics and not just a system and huge bureaucracy, to free the country's market and economy and bring growth back to the Greek economy. Despite the pandemic of the coronary, we have managed to implement major reforms. Investments in 2022, ladies and gentlemen, will increase by 23.4%, which creates conditions of high growth over the coming years. They will invade the Greek economy significant resources both from the Recovery Fund and from the NSRF 2021 - 2027. The text of the new budget includes the official start of the use of resources from the Recovery Fund. Since 2022, our country will be fully implemented by the "ELLADA 2.0" programme and it will have to demonstrate that it can go hand in hand with the required timetables and milestones it has agreed with Brussels. And since we have here near us the Deputy Minister of Culture, we have many congratulations to the decision of the Ministry of Culture and the same person, to incorporate the upgrade of the School of Fine Arts of Panormos Tinos into the projects to be financed by the Recovery Fund, an act which is practical proof that investment in culture is an indication of the special identities of the islands and constitutes a firm choice of the government. We are also proving this by means of various acts, but also with tangible results. With proper planning, but also systematic work, we have drawn up and implemented an integrated programme and a plan for the implementation of critical projects, as well as for ensuring important links in our island area, as well as in the wider maritime area of the country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u394	Finish, Mr. Loading.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u395	A little tolerance, Mr President, just a minute. Times do not allow inertia, but also postponement. Greece is perhaps the only western country with such an inefficient public, unfortunately, with such a strong trade union that reacts to everything that is pioneering and everything that is pioneering. We should not, then, stand still. We must use all opportunities, but also go ahead with all the means we have, so that the country can return to its proper place both economically and socially. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u396	Thank you. SYRIZA MEP Marilissa Xinoyannakopoulos now has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u397	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, three of the replies due to the Minister for Labour, Mr Hatzidakis. Firstly, as regards the expenditure provided for in this budget for 2022 in relation to the Ministry of Labour, it is 1,1 billion less than the 2021 budget, as was adopted at this time of last year. Also, if we compare it with the expenditure ultimately estimated, the implementation of the Ministry of Labour's budget for 2021 will be closed, there the reduction is even higher, it is at 3.5 billion. So I would say that it makes no sense to make such creative references on the part of the Ministry of Labour when we all have the budget and we are discussing it today. Secondly, Mr Hatzidakis made an attempt to compare work with the SYRIZA Government and the Mitsotakis Government. So let's see and remember. The government of SYRIZA increased after 2012 and the second memorandum, in 2019, by 11% the minimum wage and even abolished the shameful understatement with age discrimination. The Government of the New Democracy for two and a half years now and even though it had made an election commitment to double the minimum wage in relation to growth, it has kept him frozen. Indeed, it has made this shameful symbolic increase of 2%, which, according to the budget we are discussing, will apply from 1 January 2022, which simply means 13 euros mixed in the month or 50 cents of the euro mixed share. So not for half a coup, on the basis of today's data of purchasing power. So what Mr Hatzidakis did to the Council of Ministers was sufficient, when they discussed the European directive on the need for minimum wages to be increased in Europe. SYRIZA's government has put in place the right ground for dismissal for redundancies. The first amendment brought to Parliament by the New Democracy Government was to abolish the well-founded ground for dismissal, while the famous Hatzidakis law made redundancies completely uncontrolled, so that even if the worker is justified in court for illegal or abusive dismissal, not only that he should not be reinstated, but that he should not even take the corresponding wages. It is a question of whether it will receive a civil allowance, but if the employer does not prove that he has financial difficulties. I come to the contract workers and to all these unprotected categories of workers. The SYRIZA government has put in protective provisions. The Government of New Democracy was one of the first to repeal in August 2019 and, indeed, systematically promotes the contraction of work in the private sector first, but unfortunately also in the public sector. And we see this everywhere, even in the National Health System, where there are no permanent recruitments, and we also have a EUR 820 million reduction for 2022. The government of SYRIZA, following the blow to the jobs of the second memorandum, when we came out of the memoranda in 2018, restored collective negotiations in the country, more favourable regulation, the right to unilateral recourse of workers to arbitration. The Government of New Democracy abolished all this and the anti-Fraud Law Hatzidakis came to give the final blow, completely undermining the possibility of collective bargaining, abolished Law 1264/82, which not even the Memorandum governments dared to do, and undermined trade union rights, the right to strike and autonomy of unions and trade unions. The SYRIZA government, ladies and gentlemen, introduced the permanent thirteenth pension, which the New Democracy also voted for, but abolished after 2020. And in the face of the great reaction that existed at that time, for these 980 million who were granted the thirteenth pension - because it was not, as you said, crunchy, 980 million - introduced a social dividend in 2020, predicting that 0.5% of GDP will go every year to support low-skilled and weak people. Well, since last year he didn't give any dividends, what did he then do? By bringing the other famous Hatzidakis - Tsakloglou law, which handed over the Auxiliary Insurance system to private interests, which also causes a large public budget gap, which will increase, for the first three years, for the first time, and in order to cover this gap first, but also the operating and building costs and the wages of the Golden Boys in the famous Auxiliary Capital Insurance Fund, it also put hands on the social dividend. Thus, the only thing the pensioners have seen today, and indeed only a small category of pensioners, was the EUR 250 in a total social dividend that does not exceed EUR 330 million. So that is the reality and comparison. And I come to the third point. Mr Hatzidakis told us that actions and results are important. I will fully agree, Madame and gentlemen of the government. However, the difference is that the results of your policy are dramatically experienced by the workers and generally the low and medium-sized strata of our country. Because at the moment 1/3 of workers is at the minimum wage, which, based on all elements, is below the level of relative poverty, and the other 1/3 is below the minimum wage to the point of absolute poverty that cannot meet the basic living needs. In the exacerbation of accuracy, for which the government does not take any initiative, the results are dramatic. Mr President, I shall table three texts and conclude. So, at this point, I would first like to submit information from the GFCM, which demonstrates that in our country 35% of households are located not only in poverty, but it cannot even survive with dignity. Our country is in the lowest position throughout Europe. I'm filing it in the Minutes. The second element is that at the moment and with the constant appreciations, data show that only in October the purchasing power of the workers paid the minimum wage fell by 10% if the energy crisis is taken into account. 7% reduction for all key types of need. It is one of the lowest positions in Europe. As far as unemployment is concerned, I would say that Mr Hatzidakis, who has reappointed work, has forced labour to be intensified and to reduce the possibility of new recruitment through over-exploitation of workers, must be more moderate when he talks about work, much more so than next year when employment support measures are not provided for. And here I shall put forward - and I shall close with this, Mr President - elements of EUROSTAT which speak for themselves and show that Greece has the worst place in Europe in terms of youth unemployment, the worst position in terms of women's unemployment and the second worst position in terms of men's unemployment. So people are experiencing your policies, no matter how much you propaganda them, and they are well aware of their consequences, as only one is the solution, the fight of the workers themselves to abolish in practice the Hatzidakis Act, until it has the popular mandate again to abolish the Hatzidakis Act, but above all it will bring about a major political and social change for our country and the Greek people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u398	Thank you, too. Mr Lazaros Tsavdaridis has the floor for seven minutes. Then there will be the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Syregella, and then Mrs Arabatzi, Mr Hatzigiannakis, Mr Keletsis and Mr Triantafylides. And we'll keep up with the list. Here, Mr. Tsavdaridis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u399	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, a few days ago the European Commission's evaluation report spoke about a dynamic recovery of the Greek economy, which will be maintained thanks to the government's policy in place, as well as the strong impetus from the implementation of the Recovery and Resilience Plan. In fact, the same report confirms and welcomes with special reference not only the effectiveness of the measures taken and continues to be implemented by the Government for the protection of jobs in vulnerable sectors, but also the preservation of the entrepreneurial potential during the pandemic, but also the significant progress made by a number of reforms in investment, demilitarisation, justice and the digitisation of the state, but also for the sustainability of the public debt, the maintenance of cash available at high levels, as well as a significant reduction in non-performing loans in bank portfolios. And all of this, despite the uncertainties created by both the ongoing global health crisis and the explosive rise in energy prices and the resulting revaluations. This positive perspective for the country is also reflected in the 2022 budget that we are discussing these days in plenary. It is a budget that continues the successful recipe of last year, having as a philosophy the creation of an innovative, more competitive economic model and a state of digitally upgraded that will be constantly next to the needs of the citizen and which will spread an effective social protection net to him. It is a budget without any new tax, like last year, with additional tax reductions as well as last year, with this reduction in the tax on legal persons from 24% to 22%. It is a budget with innovative interventions and in 2022 a total cost of EUR 433 million, in addition to EUR 697 million planned for 2021 for strengthening employment, households, new generation and entrepreneurship, but also a budget that has a dynamic support for our primary sector with a crown of this return on excise duty on oil to young farmers and farmers - members of cooperative and cooperative schemes for 2022. For the implementation of these policies, of course, it has been and continues to be the rate of growth in our country, which, for 2021, is estimated at 6.9% of GDP and 2022 at 4.5%, significantly upwards, of course, compared to that set out in the preliminary draft budget for 2022. That means, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that all the flammations that you made last year about the country's course were resented at all levels. Can I remind you what you were saying last year from this step in the debate on the budget for 2021? Your Chief, Mr. Tsipras, was talking about the failure of the economy, warning as Cassandra that the debt in 2021 would touch 210% of GDP because allegedly the government insistence on fundamental policies, which you said existed before the pandemic and not as a result of it. What did we see this year? This year we saw a Greek champion in the European Union in absorption, with 13.4% growth in the third quarter of 2021 and 9.4% growth in the first nine months of 2021, with 27.9% increase in exports, with falling unemployment from 16.5% in September 2020 to 13% in September 2021, which is the lowest percentage of the last decade. All of this thanks to the extremely successful government support measures they have maintained, but also further increased jobs in a pandemic time. We are talking about a Greece with 7.2% increase in available income in the first half of 2021 and with an early repayment of the balance of loans to the IMF, you know, what Mr. Tsipras would take with the dulls and battles on marble groceries! Eventually, however, it was Mitsotakis who signed the country's exit from it, without fanatics, one Tuesday afternoon at his office. For you, however, it seems that these are fine letters, because even now you are urging unconsciously lies, such as the ones about 'VIP IM', or you are going through this step in criticisms of a government that has supposedly established unpaid work and which has allegedly cut the tenth pension. But the government, through the budget of 2022, responds with a view to the future. In response to a budget which increases the revenues of the Public Investment Programme by EUR 200 million, it increases the expenditure on benefits to workers by EUR 131 million by EUR 131 million, increases expenditure on social benefits by EUR 23 million over the medium term, increases the social security expenditure by EUR 400 million in relation to the mid-term assessment, increases the regular expenditure for the Ministry of Health by EUR 250 million last year and incorporates with additional costs of EUR 2 billion in the first phase to deal with the consequences of the pandemic which have not been specified due to the dynamic form of the phenomenon, but also expenditure related to exceptional assistance to beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income, the heating allowance, as well as the power bill. I repeat that the only thing that this budget does not manage is to budget the size of the damage that will cause the country by the blind opposition of the Officer's opposition. But we leave this one in the Greek people's judgment. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u400	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The reason for this is the State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, Mrs Maria Syregella, for seven minutes. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u401	Ladies and gentlemen, whatever efforts are being made by the Officerial Representation to challenge the country's positive performance, unfortunately no one can question that in the last two years we have made progress and have been positive at all levels, despite the difficulties created by the pandemic and we continue to face the necessary restrictive measures because of the coronary. As far as the Ministry of Labour is concerned, because I have heard that there has been no support for workers or that there has been no support for workers, only 9 billion has been granted in the last year to three million workers and unemployed people to support them during the curfew. There was a reduction in insurance contributions to 3.9%. This, of course, has helped to increase the income available to the workers. And while we received an unemployment at 17.2% in July 2019, we reached 13%. Last time this happened in 2010, before the crisis or at the start of the economic crisis. In any case, this is not what Eurostat says. More specifically, with Mr.4808, where are workers based? How much is there real protection of work? The European Directive 2019/158 was incorporated into the harmonisation of family, personal and professional life and, at the same time, we are from the first countries worldwide that have ratified the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation on Violence and Sexual Harassment at Work. A four-month parental leave was established for both parents. For the first time, Dads are entitled to this leave, to paternity leave, which is fourteen days and as far as we know from the "ERGANI" elements many dads take this leave after the birth of their child. The license was introduced for five working days for the care of persons present in the family and there is a need. In fact, parents with increased family obligations were also given the right until children reached the age of 12 months to seek flexible working arrangements such as teleworking, flexible working hours and of course always at the same time as protecting their jobs. Finally, for the first time, the dads are also protected from dismissal after the birth of their child. We knew that in the past moms were protected from dismissal. Dads are now protected for a while. At the same time, tools and directions have been given to enterprises to formulate internal regulations and policies to tackle and eliminate phenomena of violence and harassment at the workplace. It is a well-documented idea that the well-being of the citizens is directly linked to both the economy and growth, and that is our objective. Strengthening and supporting women, that is 50% of our country's human resources and through them and the family, is a priority for us. We first built a National Action Plan on equality involving seventeen Ministries for the first time. At the same time, an operational plan has been drawn up which has been sent to the Ministry of Finance's Economic Expert Council and has been an economic study of what the country will have in the coming years. I now come to the individual items of the budget. We all know that the General Secretariat is using co-financed resources to implement its programmes, as the policies pursued are in line with the European Commission's priorities and are evaluated at European level by the European Institute for Gender Equality. So let us see the budget entered in the Public Investment Programme for the last five years. The largest amount appears in 2015 and is about 21,257 million. Let me note that this budget was approved by the former Government of New Democracy. In your days, gentlemen of Officerial Response, funding through the Public Investment Program collapsed to about 3 million in 2016, was further reduced in 2017 to reach, given the conditions of the pandemic, in 2021 to about 5,159 million, i.e. again to the days of the Government of New Democracy. I would clarify that these amounts correspond to funding for projects implemented exclusively by us. Therefore, while we continue to see to it that equality policies continue, we incorporate a very large amount in the budget under discussion, the largest amount from 2016 to today for the implementation of our actions. It amounts to 14,151 million in addition to the 2020 budget - 2021. So a total of 19.310.182 million. More specifically, this increase in the budget for 2022 concerns the implementation of flagship projects, such as the co-financed "Dadas of Neighbourhood", the creation of storage sites in a hundred and twenty large enterprises and, of course, the reform programme to enhance diversity in the workplace through the Recovery Fund. We are also integrating the gender dimension into public policies and budgeting by energising the technical support instrument, as well as other smaller budgets, but equally important projects. With regard to the Equality Research Centre, which is a legal entity under private law supervised by us, it forms part of its funding under the Public Investment Programme of EUR 2.6 million. This includes the structure network of abused women and an increase of EUR 578 235 compared to last year's budget. We are therefore working hard and with absolute priority for the better and more effective use of the financial resources that we have. We emphasise social policy, which affects the everyday lives of women, strengthens their work, gives them confidence and power to move forward firmly and enjoy the benefits of progress and development. Social policy and social change can only happen when this change starts through our own home. And we do not say so, the employees of AUGY who say by their announcement that the increase in expenditure on newspaper and website expenditure has gone ahead, but at the same time the wages of employees are reduced to 1/3. At the same time, they ask for the will you have made to stop. In any case, an example is given not by "fake words, great words", but by actions within our own home. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u402	We too thank the Minister and the time consistency. The New Democracy MP, Mr Fotini Arabatzis, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u403	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for another year SYRIZA has been very uncomfortable in discussing the budget. It makes sense. The black scenarios for the collapse of the economy still didn't come out. That's why he's trying to cancel reality by splitting off some make news. He tries to do the white black because he cannot withstand the economic successes of the government, he cannot stand the fact that the third budget of the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is a budget that does not simply reduce taxes - unknown word about the governance of SYRIZA - ANEL - but increases national income. National income, GDP, is projected at the end of 2022 to be EUR 187,3 billion, i.e. EUR 10 billion more than 2021, although of course the performance of the Greek economy in a few days' time can surprise us even more, 21 billion more than 2020, the year when the pandemic crisis occurred, about EUR 10 to 11 billion above the average GDP in SYRIZA governments. It will be the best performance after 2012 and will mark the beginning of a new cycle in the Greek economy. This, ladies and gentlemen of counter-population, you cannot stand it, because very simply reality is tearing down, like polling, of course, whatever your opposition account and making citizens horror in their reminder of the government they have imposed, including twenty-nine taxes and twenty-two pension cuts. It is a new cycle in the Greek economy with basic features of strong, but also sustainable growth rates of 4.5 to 5% for GDP in 2022 and over 3.5% in the coming years. I would remind you very briefly of Mr Mitsotakis' election commitment to a growth rate of 4%. We have overcome this in the midst of a pandemic crisis. Growth will be based on investment - an increase of 11.7%, a 15-year record in 2021, an increase of 21.9%, a 2022 record - in research and innovation, a sector in which Greece has already attracted investment from the largest international companies. Who would have imagined, ladies and gentlemen, that colossians such as MICROSOFT, AMAZON, CISCO-TEAM VIEWER, PFIZER will invest in our country and choose our country as an investment attraction and activity pole? And I am particularly pleased as Macedonian that central Macedonia and, in particular, Thessaloniki are becoming an innovation polo with scope in the wider area of Southeast Europe, but also with obvious advantages for inland businesses - I also have my special homeland, Serres - to have access to the most advanced technological advances. In addition, investment in research and innovation also has a clear social sign, as it helps to return our young people, as has already been demonstrated in the case of PFIZER, with one out of five being part of the generation of the so-called 'brain regain', automatically reducing the challenge of unemployment. Export-based development, a record record record of 21% in 2021. Development based on industry, which is particularly important for the food industry, as is apparent from the unprecedented business interest in the agri-food sector, when - not least, I have said so many times from this Step - the food industry is one quarter of the Greek industry as a whole. Development based on energy, with our country, especially Macedonia and Thrace, an energy hub in the wider region and a portal of clean energy entry in Europe. Of course, in tourism, not in its classic'sun and sea' form, but in complex, specific forms of tourism. The second feature of the new era is the substantial relief of households and businesses. This is being done in the budget in a number of measures. I mention, for example, the reduction in insurance contributions by three units, the suspension of the solidarity levy in the private sector, the reduction in the corporate tax rate from 28% to 22%, the advance payment of the tax from 100% to 55% and a number of other measures. The third feature is support for society: ECU 43.3 billion. EUR 3 years for 2020 - 2022 for the treatment of pandemic, the third largest support package as a percentage of GDP after Italy and Germany, the fourth worldwide, support for society by putting back on households and businesses against increases in energy and electricity, with EUR 680 million. The second instalment, which is expected to cover 80% of households in oil, gas, pelts, district heating, support for society, not by credit, not by overtaxation, has already been paid on 30/12, which is expected to cover 80% of households in oil, gas, pelts, district heating, support for society, but not by overtaxation, but by a fair distribution of the wealth produced. In other words, growth dividends to everyone and everyone, with the additional EUR 205 million to eight hundred thousand low pensioners and not, of course, the supposedly thirteenth pension, which is without shame - to allow me - and today, from this step by the Vice-Presidents of Anti-Population - was due to the supposedly thirteenth pension, which was essentially an election allowance, which was paid, of course, after the robbery in the years of your administration, after the tax reduction from 9,500 to 5,500 euros. Also, the extraordinary wage allowance in the hundreds of thousands of sanitaries, as well as the first sign to find thousands of young and young jobs. I shall conclude, Mr President. Fourthly, the development of the region with the largest programme of public investment ever made. A 70% increase to 80% of GDP in 2022, 11 billion EUR 6 billion to EUR 6.5 billion in the form of a global loan for the financing of small and medium-scale projects in the Mezzogiorno. The euros were variable over a period of time. Ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget has been introduced to the House by the positive vote of the Greek society that places its hopes and expectations on the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, with the positive vote of the international and Greek business community, a vote which is reflected in the increase in investment, in the very big business deals over the last few months, in the price of the withdrawal contests that outweigh all expectations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u404	Complete, Mrs. Arabaji.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u405	This positive vote, like ours on Saturday night, is a vote of confidence in the government and personally with Mr Mitsotakis, the Prime Minister who has managed effective crises that no one could even imagine a few years ago. Hence the words 'holy we have'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u406	And we thank Mrs. Arabaji. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u407	Thank you very much, Mr President. I will try not to be tempted to comment on both the major political and social issue of the study that came out yesterday. I'll just say the following. And you should be a little more careful, Minister, when such findings are made. In no country of Europe would have done this, that is, Prime Minister 15 days ago had said from the Step of the House that there was no study of something - nor could a small child believe it, but he said it - and not just be disproved, but after 15 days of getting a conclusion in which his own consultant and the person responsible has appointed to deal with the pandemic has been celebrating him and he says to you "we have given it to him since the summer". Anyone would have resigned. On much smaller issues, Mr. Kurts, his friend, resigned - no matter how important the part - and even ended his political career. On the contrary, we saw the Prime Minister come yesterday - to enter my fields as well - after more than four months of extinguishing the latest fire outbreaks that burned almost all northern Evia, finding the way to come, after a hundred and twenty-four days, to see the beauties of the state's official. Not that he saw anything, of course. Why did he come from Arkica, crossed across the Eid, which is fortunately not burned - is one of the few places that have not burned in northern Evia - he also entered the Istiania, which was also not burned, fortunately, in a high school closed, around the MATs, with some guests and with half of the Ministerial Council, to tell us what? Tell us the flooding projects that have not even begun, and while we have already suffered the first floods with major disasters? Should a road network be announced - I wish we could see it - that had announced last summer in the summer of 2020 and told us that we would have completed the studies and auctioned it by the end of the year, then, in 2020, when we lamented eight of our people in Evia? Tell us what, why haven't all the compensation been granted? Not all of them, to the farmers, to the olive growers and to the beekeepers, have been given nothing. The European Parliament has been given the help. In order not to be unfair, "Help" was quickly given. I want to be fair, because I respect the place I am. The first were given from there, however, despite the fact that ministers are coming, and the procedures are too slow and people are without help, and unfortunately Evia is helpless. I wish indeed this time the funding was secure, as the Prime Minister said yesterday. Sadly, because the Evils are burnt to the batter, we also blow yogurt. Let us have that right. I would like to say two words - because I have heard the Minister Voridis earlier, although many of them have been answered by our Parliamentary representative Mr Skourletis - about the draft budget, about the budget you are coming to vote on and the grand things that the Minister for Government has announced to us. You can read the budget - I think you have read it all - and see the increases where they are in self-government, which the Minister proudly told us that they were first given. I oppose it because Panos Skourletis properly replied which government really supported, and with what measures self-government, but I say this. It could have been very simple - obviously it has, but it concealed it from the procedure here - to read the decision of the CEDEFOP Management Board last week. You all know the Board of Directors of the CEDEFOP - although they are mayors of course the people - political where they stand. What did the CEDEFOP say to us? The losses they have so far due to COVID are 400 million. Is something foreseen in 2022? Oh, no. What did the Minister tell us? That's why it's an emergency. It's an emergency, so we don't know that there is. Again, and 2022 is going to be an emergency. We fall off the clouds to understand that we will have to deal with the pandemic at least in the first quarter of 2022. What didn't he tell us? He did not tell us that the CEDEFOP has estimated at least 500 million in its decision-making - they are not my own words - the cost of municipalities and municipal companies by increasing electricity. And what else did he say? That from the end of the burial, while you told them otherwise, that it's coming from 1-1-2023, you brought it 1-1-2022, another 200 million. You do the deeds, I don't do them. So the municipalities are 'inside' 1.3 million. The municipalities are 1.3 million 'inside' and how much do you give them? Even I'll take a good-for-nothing one. While there is an increase in the budget, mainly from indirect taxes, the equivalent given to the municipalities - because the CFP is financed by the tax side and the indirect taxes side - is substitutable. Indeed, there is an increase, but much less: the first of the damage that the municipalities have - by their own statements, not my own - and the regions and, secondly, the increased revenues that you budget far less. So what support for our municipalities did the Minister tell us? The mayors yesterday, who were meeting online with our President, Alexis Tsipras, told us that they did not know if they would have to pay the workers. Were they lying? Are the mayors smuggled? The district managers have told us the same thing. It's good to speak communally in society. Even better, it's doing things and standing in society. And, unfortunately, this budget shows your face. Unfortunately, the Greek himself lives in his pocket, as the OTAs live in it, such as the stress each has and each one to deal with everyday life. Unfortunately, as nice as you communicate and present them, as developmental as you say you have achieved, as well as the miracle of the Greek economy - because that is what we hear this morning and yesterday afternoon - this is not what the Greek taxpayer sees in his pocket. Look at you guys get serious. Although, unfortunately, I'm afraid to see better days, this government has to leave. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u408	Thank you, Mr. Hatzigiannakis for the time economy. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Stavros Keletsis, now has the floor for seven minutes. Here, Mr. Keletsis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u409	Thank you, Mr President. I wonder, ladies and gentlemen, if it were not the pandemic, what would be the opposition speech, in fact, of the Vice-Population Officer. Today, all SYRIZA speakers have been talking - while we are discussing the budget - about the Ciodra report on pandemic. Literally, you are exercising an opposition to malformation that is about deaths, nothing else. I would remind you that, even beyond the pandemic, even on the issue of the defence agreement with France, Mr Tsipras has done a great deal there. I remind you of the famous phrase about the coffins of soldiers coming from Africa and from the Sahel. That's your counterpopulation. No other essential constructive, opposition reason! At the same time, whatever the government has brought in and has to deal with the pandemic, you have voted against it. From Mr Tsipras''vesselling', the creation of doubts about the effectiveness of the vaccination of Mr Polakis - who also adopted it, and Mr Tsipras here, in the House - in any measure that the government has voted to address the issues of the pandemic and to convince the Greek people to be vaccinated, you did not vote in favour. You voted against everything. So you are investing in death, you are political thumpers! As regards the previous speaker mentioned in Evia, I will tell you this. I do not know details, but I know that yesterday, Mr Benos - a very experienced politician who does not come from the New Democracy area - said that for the first time in his political career, rehabilitation projects have been carried out in such a short time. I also know that 12.1m euros have already been allocated for northern Evia and another 24m euros are expected for anti-corrosion projects. Isn't that right, Mr. Undersecretary? So all this is not the case, which has been said. In addition to that, however, let us move on to the budget debate. It is the third budget of the Mitsotakis Government and the second one in the suffocating framework set by the pandemic. As logical as it may be, others are the priorities when you operate under neutral conditions and others under conditions imposed on you by exogenous factors, such as pandemic. It is indicative that the government has between 2020 and 2023, EUR 43.3 billion to deal with the pandemic. In the health sector, EUR 944 million was allocated to the health sector in 2021 and another EUR 736 million is planned for 2022. In the focus also of EUR 2.3 billion in the agricultural sector 19.5 million. However, despite the fact of narrow margins and the adaptation to pandemic data - and this is literally a feat - the government has not been distracted by their original objectives and has managed to implement its programme. We went on to reduce taxes and abolish taxes. We froze VAT on the building, we reduced ENVY and our programme goes ahead with the new budget. At the same time, all over Greece are making projects that mark greater growth. I would remind you that, just recently, it unblocked and we got Europe's approval of the Patras - Tower road project which, since 2014, has been cancerous, because of the choices made by the previous government to break it into eight smaller pieces. And just today, an investment of more than EUR 3 billion was announced, which has to do with OTE, by the 'DEUTSCHE TELEKOM'. That is why we also have these growth rates which have reached 6.9%, and that is why we are also waiting for 2022 growth rates of 4.5%. At the same time, we must say that projects are also being carried out in the region. I'll speak, for example, about my area of Evros. The work of privatising the port of Alexandroupolis has already begun, and we are already in the process of submitting tenders and business plan. We have the upgrading of the Alexandroupolis - Ormenio railway line in double and electrical, which will connect the port with the northern part of the country and from there, with the rail network leading to Eastern Europe. We have the regional road connecting Ennaia with the port, the creation of fuel tanks at Alexandroupolis airport, the announcement and implementation through the NSRF of the new Garden border, the police station of Alexandroupolis, which is being held through the PPPs, and of course, the creation of the natural gas network throughout Thrace. So projects are being done all over the country. At the same time, the government prioritised the strengthening of the country's defence, a sector that we had fallen behind in the years of the crisis. We have acted and practically applied the idea that we should strengthen our country's defence, when we have a straightforward threat as expressed in recent years by Turkey's regime and the new hybrid threat of immigration's work. In the agricultural sector, the new strategic plan announced for the new CAP gives young farmers the weight of green agriculture and the digitisation of agriculture. Already EUR 19.3 billion will come to the country from the new CAP, while EUR 2 billion will be directed to the primary sector from the Recovery Fund. This is also a very important and great step. At the same time, there are problems. Every day's life gives rise to problems and we have to solve them. For example, we have the problem of payment and compensation, Minister, of 12% in Thrace's operations. We have voted well and with consensus on a regulation, but in practice there are difficulties in implementing it, and we need to see what we will do here, as we need to see the question of extending the programme of the unemployed of Thrace Ferra, a programme that has been implemented over time by the previous governments. Also - one last and I am closing with this - we should see a little bit of the issue of the refund of VAT to farmers. It is an option to give it to young farmers, especially - quite rightly - and to the cooperatives. This, in my opinion, is not the right choice, in the sense that we divide small communities of the villages - and I say them to you, conveying opinions, discussions, objections from discussions in our villages - into some who will be satisfied and some who will not be satisfied. Perhaps it is better to give many less than a few.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u410	Finish, Mr. Keletsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u411	That's what I'm closing down with, Mr. President. I think that this year's budget also has a development mark, and that is why we are voting for it, and we must vote on it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u412	Thank you, too. Let me inform you that by moderate calculations and by keeping time, the meeting will be concluded tonight at one midnight. Mr Alexandros Triantafylides has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u413	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know if Mr. Keletsis is here. Mr. Keletsi, did you honestly talk about a tomb injury? The people who flagged Eye with the Prime Minister's own statements, you who asked for our forty casualties in March 2019 due to the flu? Are you talking? It's a shame to talk about a homicide. But I will not restore my speech where I want to focus and I want to focus on Thessaloniki. Tragedy in flow in my city hospitals. We are talking about the second 'black' November and December. We're talking about images of humanitarian and health devastation in hospitals, about chambers of a hundred dead people who really should be shocking us all. Let us try to respond with empathy and responsibility to the tragedy that shocks millions of our fellow citizens across the country and has dramatically altered the daily lives of all of us! We live with the loss of known, relatives, friends. All of this should make us, first of all, as people, to expel in the face of the pandemic the short-sighted party approach, to measure political costs. Unfortunately, foreign government policy does not allow us to do so. In the reasonable question why it cannot respond, the answer is not the nineteen thousand five hundred thirty-four dead, nor most dead per million in western Europe. It is about the fact that the most difficult turn of history for our society and our people has a government that does not believe in the National Health System. That's why it doesn't strengthen it. This is what the Lytra - Chiorda study says in its conclusion: strengthening the National Health System. We yelled at you, we call you in and out of the House, we call you with all opposition parties, even with some colleagues in the New Democracy, such as the propathidis Vice-President of the House Nikitas Kaklamanis. Not only do you not support the ESS with new permanent recruitments, not only do you not permanently permanently make the sixteen thousand subsidiary and contracted doctors, nurses, administrative staff, not only do you not give the heavy and unhealthy staff, not only do you not pay overtime, but you plan to close the regional hospitals, as Mitsotakis said in 'Kathemerini', renting private clinics, consistent with the Voridis line. Why keep them all when the pandemic ends? Out of place. In the stratosphere of uncomplicated communication mastectomy, 'all goes well and we owe that to Moses'. For everything that goes wrong, you who make the decisions are not responsible for SYRIZA, Tsipras, the political system, climate change, management, and let all Greece be blue, as you cry out on the night of the self-government elections. In the sharing of the chair of power, the bishop and the ruffle you are first. In sharing responsibility, the management of pandemics, fires, floods refer to god and the opposition. You're the only ones to blame. Eliminate acute syrrhitis. Rule at least now. You are enacting compulsory suspension sentences for sanitation, but not for the three New Democracy MPs who say that they remain uninvasive for religious reasons. So they legislated obligation with punishment for others, but not for themselves? Is it moral? Is it honorable? Could we avoid the tragedy of Thessaloniki? For twenty months since 13 April 2020, we have proposed and claimed the reopening of the closed infectious hospital and the history of "424". The government didn't hear us. Unforgivable frustration? Unrecognized irresponsibility? Criminal incapacity? None of this. You don't believe in the public ERC. The leading team of the New Democracy under Mr. Mitsotakis wants PPP. Thessaloniki doesn't forget, Mr. Mitsotakis. You ripped her out for two Novembers. Your apology broke out here in the House in your tritology on 13 November. You didn't believe her, she was a phony because you repeated the same mistakes. You left it sanitaryly unarmed city, unarmed society, despite the experts' warnings in August 2020. You did not only lie in the House and in interviews, when you told us that no one had asked for more timely measures for Thessaloniki, but you consciously put political costs and communication above human life. The confession of your professing minister of "development" that Thessaloniki mourns so many dead from the pandemic because the government ignored the experts who had asked for lockdown is creepy and has exposed you irreparably, Mr. Mitsotakis. What health? What pandemic? Your own religion is power. And I come to the study of Chiorda and Lytra, which is really a fist in the stomach. Shock and awe. The black box of the IFs. The Prime Minister is very much exposed to revealing that he lied to the Greek people about death outside of the ICM. As epidemiologist Theodoros Lytras points out, the government had in its hands a study of the same and Mr. Chiordas, who said that hospitality outside the ICU is related to 87% increased mortality. Most importantly: the ESS fails to respond to the load when there are more than four hundred tubed, thus dying patients, who would live if they were cured under other conditions. And the even more shocking, which really grieves us, makes us wonder, "Well, these people, the relatives, don't you think about them when they read this study and wonder if their relatives could live?" One of the three thousand nine hundred eight eight deaths of a tube analyzed by a thousand five hundred thirty-five is estimated to escape if everyone was hospitalized on a low load at the NSH, in Attica Hospitals and in ICU. Ladies and gentlemen, the Chiodra study clearly states that seven and a half thousand citizens have gone unjustly, nine out of ten who have been imprisoned outside the ICM are dying. Mr. Mitsotakis, I know you're thinking of asking again for apologies, but you're being kept by your communicators with the phrase, "Kyriakos, we've been taken away." Where is Mr. Petsas, who said that if we had SYRIZA for the ITH, we would have thrown tens of millions of euros? So far, we've been talking about scandals costing public money. From today we will talk of scandals that cost thousands of lives and it is really shocking. And I ask you, Mr. Triantopoulos, Minister of State, Mr. Besiropoulos, State Secretary for Finance, Mrs. Syregella, where you are leaving, knowing or did Mr. Mitsotakis not know? Do not answer us, answer the relatives of the people who are watching us. Did he know or did he not know the study of his close partner, Sotiris, as he was called, by Mr. Chiodra? She knew or didn't know? It is a shocking question and you are due to answer! What did you do, drank the unspoiled water? There's no answer! Get out to the National Representation, now, here, live. You don't need an information note. There's no need for documentation. It's a simple phone. And tell the truth, not to SYRIZA, not to the opposition, not to the parties, but to the relatives who lost their own people. In conclusion, I am doubting the government and I am voting against its budget. Time runs against the country. When citizens once again give the mandate to the great democratic, progressive party with SYRIZA and Prime Minister Alexis Tsipras, the mandate to rule, there will be no pillow that we left EUR 37 billion. but a ruined and looted society, which will be needed again with trouble, sweat, and fight all together to resurrect. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u414	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Callianos, now has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u415	Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u416	Will it snow in Attica?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u417	First of all, I am particularly honoured by the fact that, from all the wings, you expect some things to tell you. It's very important.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u418	Yeah, for the weather.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u419	Mr. Triantafylides, although I appreciate you and I don't have anything with you, it's a nice theatrical performance you've given now. I'm sure the late Starfleet psalmist, if he was underneath this hour, would applaud you for your abilities.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u420	A performance? Shame on you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u421	I don't have anything with you guys. Mr. Triantafylides, I told you, we know each other and I don't have anything with you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u422	From my soul!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u423	From your soul, I agree, I did not say otherwise. Nine out of ten things you said really had nothing to do with reality and I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u424	Can you give an answer? Did he know or didn't he?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u425	Colleagues, did anyone interrupt you? Please warmly!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u426	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u427	Are you an attorney? What do you want? You want something? You don't have the floor. Please calm down and calm down. Don't fly! You will respect the speaker, whatever he says, his right, as the previous speaker has not been interrupted and all the speakers are not interrupted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u428	It is forbidden to address a colleague!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u429	Look, let go of the Rules of Procedure, I know them better than you do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u430	Do your job then!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u431	If he hybrids, there's staff, if he just says his name, no. Then here we should always have staff. Please don't have the floor and don't interrupt. Mr Calliano, please address this House and not a particular MEP.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u432	Mr President, I do not think I spoke insultingly to Mr Triantafylides. I didn't say anything wrong.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u433	(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u434	Stop it, Mr. Giannoulis! Don't go on with the theatrical show. Calm down. Don't go on with the theatrical show.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u435	Are you serious now? I wish you were a theatre, but you're a bad liar!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u436	Well, let's get this over with. All of you colleagues in the Staff Regulations who say that during the debate on the budget you did not speak only of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u437	But why such a turbulence? Mr. Giannoulis, please, you're noble, tonight you're not recognized. And you, my fellow Member, have not interrupted you as much as I run this presidency. Well, please don't interrupt! You're gonna make me take action! Don't interrupt!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u438	What about me?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u439	You guys are! You speak, Mr Giannoulis speaks and does not let the speaker speak. I'm so sorry! Well, Mr. Calliano, go back to the center, 'cause when you look at some people it looks like they're getting excited. Talk about it in order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u440	Well, Mr. Giannoulis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u441	Please, Mr. Calliano, leave the nominations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u442	SYRIZA's colleagues have come today to discuss the budget of the State of 2022 and only for the budget of the state did they not discuss all this time. They're talking to us about pandemics, they're talking about intensive care units, they're talking to us about Chiodra work, they're talking to us about VIP IT. And what I have not heard this morning from the morning when I have been following this debate! And I say, don't these people have any arguments for the budget? These people have nothing to tell us about these things? I really think it is worthwhile for your partners, you yourself, who are involved in these speeches that you have read here, from the Step forward of this House, not to have a proposal to make us into the budget? Shouldn't you have something to say about it? Don't you have anything specific to say, which in any case would indicate that what we're bringing is not good? Well, because you have nothing to say, all you have to say is count every day how many dead from the coronary are in the country. And that's really sad. And I as a young man, and I imagine the other older people, the more experienced politicians in here, are very sad to see happening. We don't have an opposition like that. And if you really are so sensitive to pandemic and intensive care units, I would like you to answer the following questions, which are rhetoric. You do not have to go in the process to answer me, because I really do not want the debate here to be diverted. But I will tell you this: so you SYRIZA's sensitive left-wing democrats, why did you vote 'no' on the mandatory health vaccinations? You SYRIZA's sensitive left-wing democrats why did you vote 'no' in the fines for fake certificates? You, SYRIZA's sensitive left-wing democrats, why did you vote not on strict penalties for the coronary negligents who do not send their children to schools? Why did you also vote a few days ago 'no' to the mandatory vaccination rate for over sixty years? And then you come to all the political tables I see or all your places here in the House, to the committees I see, where you come out and say, "We put our backs on. Mitsotakis does not listen to us." But what does Mitsotakis hear from these? Mitsotakis has a Dedicated Antipoliticism which has really not put back on what is called "pandemic" and which is afflicting us all, is the truth. And I have personal experience. But what does the dead have to do with the budget? Do you think the government is responsible when one decides not to make the vaccine? Is Kyriakos Mitsotakis responsible, when there is a large enough percentage of people in the country, small or large, who will say little, who will say great, I will say that it is a great 30% of the people - who are not vaccinated? Is it Mr. Mitsotakis' fault? And yet, you see that in intensive care units 90% of the people in hospital are people who have not taken the vaccines. And because I have personal experience, I will beg from the Step of the House and I will not address the people who are here at the moment, but to the Greek citizens who are watching us, to be vaccinated. It's the only way we can get away from this dark tunnel and get into a reality and a normality that we so much have missed. I won't tire you, because the time is last year. I will only ask you the following questions, since we are talking about the budget. The debate on the budget in question is undoubtedly a top parliamentary procedure. The budget, however, in 2022, as in 2021, is a budget which is drawn up in the middle of a pandemic, which in the past two years has been affecting the whole world, not only by overcoming budgets, but also by most areas of human activity. Despite the climate of uncertainty, however, which prevailed worldwide because of this unprecedented health crisis, Greece was able not only to stand up, but to create all those conditions so that in 2022 it could be a year of economic upturn and transition in a new era, turning challenges into opportunities, making use of its comparative advantages. This is precisely what, ladies and gentlemen of all the parties you are currently here and you are following this debate, is reflected in this budget, which is an indication of the future and a reflection of Greece, which is now in the forefront of positive developments, regaining not only its credibility towards its partners, but above all its national self-confidence. It is precisely this projection in the future and the possibilities opened for our country that we are trying, unfortunately, to blur the Visual Opposition, speaking in a debate, mainly on the next day, but they are talking about yesterday, because you have just been fueling yourself since yesterday, not being able to monitor the developments of the modern era and to understand the real problems of today. I've said it too many times. I will say this once again: you may wear, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the cloak of the progressive mantle and say that you are the sensitive left ones who look at the good of the country. However, your opposition speech is deeply conservative, obsolete and outraged in attitudes of previous decades. It's really progressive. It's pushing societies forward. That makes sense, isn't it? We won't discuss the rationale. Not that he keeps them back to the ideas of the past. Why, how do we do it? Progressive is not, for example, a sterile reaction, voting against everything, such as by voting against defoliation. Is that a step forward? Neither in the midst of a pandemic standing on two boats permanently for opposition reasons, trying to fish in the cloudy waters of certain social groups. And surely, progressive is not to make opposition using make news. You say, for example, that the government is reducing funding to the Ministry of Health. Where did that sound? I have been out on forty channels in the last month and it sounds on all channels from all SYRIZA representatives that health costs will be reduced. Where did you hear that? I shall conclude, Mr President, in a minute. Unfortunately, you are also on other serious issues, on inflation, on the energy crisis, and you know very well that they are alien phenomena. But even here you deliberately reverse reality and it is very sad. You invest in destructiveness and you get a definitive divorce with the truth. Greece must tell you that black sheep is now a bright example and it is politically petty what you are doing, not to recognize it. At least say we have tried, as a government, and we have brought good things. It's not bad to say it once. We won't tell you you're right. In conclusion, I will tell you this and sometime answer me with your quietness. Is it a lie that we achieve satisfactory growth and recovery rates? It's not a lie. Is it a lie that Greece is the first to absorb an ESRB? When the government of Mr.Mitsotakis took over, our country was in the nineteenth place. Today's the first. Is it a lie? It's not a lie. Is it a lie that unemployment is gradually falling and in July 2019-September 2021 Greece has had the greatest decline in unemployment among the countries of the European Union? At the same time, in the majority of Member States, unemployment has increased. It's not a lie and you have to admit it for once. Is it a lie, then, that all citizens have seen reduced taxes this year in their clearing houses? Because you said we exaggerated...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u443	Finish, Mr. Calliano. You don't have any more time. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u444	I shall conclude, Mr President, in ten seconds. We are returning to an economic climate at pre-university levels. We are constantly gaining positions in the indicators of competitiveness. Our country's borrowing cost decreased. The economy recovers strongly, covering in the worst case two thirds of the 2020 loss. The biggest technology companies turn their gaze into Greece, investing in our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u445	Close, Mr. Calliano.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u446	To close, Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u447	Mr. Calliano, you don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u448	Last paragraph!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u449	No, please. It's over!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u450	The 2022 budget is a budget aimed at a fair and sustainable transition and a budget adjustment exclusively from growth and not from austerity measures, as you did at the time when you were ruling. That is why I am proud to be voting for him. Be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u451	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Sarakiotis, now has the floor. We must also look at the time, Mr Calliano, for the next, but also for there to be a fair treatment against everyone. Mr. Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u452	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the 2022 budget is, unfortunately, taking place in a climate of complete uncertainty, insecurity and economic instability, which has been created due to the incompetence, ideality and inaction of the New Democracy Government, which is clearly perpetuated by a distorted perception that the dual crisis - health, but also economic - is a temporary phenomenon and is treated as such. However, you have not told us how you understand transientity and this is a structural uncertainty, a sign of the inability to understand the real situation of the Greek economy, with citizens suffocating asymmetrically asymmetrically, but not transient consequences. And the question arises reasonably: How long does transientity, according to you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy? A month, six months, a year, two years? For as far as product prices are concerned, we have been filling out about a year since the SYRIZA Members tabled parliamentary questions and raised the problem. I remember in February of this year about increases in feed, in the spring of this year about increases in raw materials in the construction industry - aluminium, iron, etc. - and yet this supposedly temporary phenomenon has not yet reached its peak. And society is anxious and afraid of it. And I say this, as the high rates of inflation of the previous month, but also of this month, have not yet been fully reflected in the kinds of first need, but also in the pockets of consumers. They are percentages of 4.8%, which is the second highest level our country records after 2011, when it caught 5.2%. Nevertheless, you are bringing in a budget which does not take care of the support of the affected businesses and households, as if by magic, in fifteen days, on 1 January 2022, the country will suddenly return to the pre-crisis situation. At a time when society is squeezing, you are celebrating the expected well-being of numbers. Another lack of full contact by government officials with what is happening in Greek society. And you cannot say a single word about the need to increase the minimum wage, as does all the governments of the countries of the European Union in order to support the purchasing power of their citizens. You cannot say a single word about the need to regulate and delete part of the pandemic debt, which was not created because of the wrong choices or the risk being taken by the professionals and entrepreneurs, but because they complied with the Government's suggestions and decisions. On the contrary, you are clear and accurately captured by the increase in tax revenue for 2022 by EUR 3.5 billion. And one wonders where you will receive these additional EUR 3.5 billion taxes next year? In the public health expenditure forecasts, which are reduced by EUR 800 million, do you really have a picture, ladies and gentlemen, of what is currently happening in the health sector? I will describe the micrography of the Lamia Hospital, which is also a typical example. In January 2021, seven new IF beds were delivered by the Stavros Niarchos Foundation. It's still not working. Every day our fellow citizens lose their lives in simple beds of CIVID clinic, as they do not belong to the privileged, in order to be hospitalized in an intensive treatment unit. Doctors leave, resign because of exhaustion, mental, physical and no one is concerned. Of the six pneumonologists we had the previous time in the largest hospital in Central Greece, they have just left to fight. And which doctors are covering on-calls at the COVID unit? Scissors, general surgeons and orthopaedics. Here I would like a government minister to respond, how would he feel if he were hospitalized in a unit of COVID and a gynecologist saw it, as is happening at the moment, not only to the citizens of Fthiotida, but also to the citizens, who are hospitalized in many hospitals in the Greek region. It is, of course, a rhetorical question, because a Clinic for a relevant person of a government executive, I am sure it will be found as a miracle. Ladies and gentlemen, to return to the economy, price rise is indeed a pan-European problem. However, in our country the inertia and indifference of the government has exacerbated its consequences, with the cost of living rising at a mad rate and not accompanied by the necessary increase in incomes, which would secure the social fabric. And I have not heard a government official, a New Democracy MEP, explain the fact that our country today presents the most expensive pan-European electricity price, 47% higher than the European Union average, while in all previous years it has been on the average of this list. After the great recession of last year, we have reasonably led to predictions of positive growth, which, however, do not touch society, thus widening the already growing disparities. It is characteristic that half the benefit of tax relief measures will only enjoy two-two businesses, while 60% of companies will not see the slightest benefit. Development of the economy with society absent. Paper designs, without an impact on the incomes of the citizens. The same economic logic of deception is reflected in the area of research and innovation. After this year's non-payment of the remaining 10% of the regular grant approved for 2021 to the research centres, which you requested to have a budget corresponding to that of 2018, the Government is suspending the regular grant of the EMI for 2022, despite its contrary commitments. This is a sum that would amount to EUR 59 million, but the New Democracy chooses not to pay it, continuing to undermin an institution that has proven itself to contribute to reversing Brain Drain. Narcoticize every project that contributes to the repatriation of those who have fled abroad persecuted by your policies, drug the future of the young people in our country and through the budget that you are bringing to the vote, prove in practice that you are solidating vision and depriving the hope of our country accordingly. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u453	We also thank Mr Sarakiotis for the consistency in time. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Theophilos Lentaridis, now has the floor for seven minutes. Mr. Lionides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u454	Ladies and gentlemen, the economic crisis of the last decade has easily highlighted the populist forces, who have then temporarily found the space to enter the political system and create the illusions among the Greek citizens of easy solutions, inexpensive and false promises, which of course have fallen into the gap and have not been able to pay for it. History is now repeated in the health crisis, but with one difference: the guards, that is, the Greek citizens, who know the recent past of the Officerial Representation, no longer believe in the koruna, which is unleashing every day to deceive them once again and gain their trust. Despite all the human errors, the omissions that may exist during this difficult period, the average noodle citizen thinks and says: "Think of what would happen in the country, if we had a SYRIZA government to deal with all these fronts." Then, of course, the economic crisis was internal and what you were saying false, it was a place. But now that the pandemic crisis is global and everyone sees what is happening in other countries you do not have a audience. The government's large bets on Greece of tomorrow, which are evolving daily and they will get flesh and bones by their implementation are as follows: Economic growth and attracting investment with an emphasis on the extroversion, innovation and the exploitation of human resources. Reinforcement of the health system tested, strengthened, and when pandemic intensity deviates there will be strong reserves to respond to daily needs. The overall reform of education, which will result in the occupational rehabilitation of young people with good jobs. The full digitisation of the state, which will enable others in the insurance system that is reformed to put an end to the suffering of the citizens, who rightly expect years to get their pensions. The response to the climate crisis, the further reduction of taxation, the strengthening of agricultural and livestock production and especially of young farmers by exploiting the new CAP and the Recovery Fund. We are already putting forward proposals and important works of breath are being carried out in each region, as is the case with the Serres Prefecture. The Government has undertaken to reduce taxes and insurance contributions by taking up its duties. We have done so and will continue to do so in 2022. I would remind you that we have reduced HPAI by 22%, we have reduced the tax rate from 22% to 9%, we have reduced the corporate income tax from 28% to 22%. We abolished the parental benefit tax, donations for first-degree relatives for real estate and securities up to 800,000 euros. We reduced insurance contributions by one to three percentage points. In these permanent tax reductions, others now come to be added. The further overall reduction of HICP in 2022, the exemption from the special levy on income solidarity for private workers, the reduction of the fee for mobile telephony subscribers and the abolition of the fee for young people up to twenty-nine years, the suspension of a fee for pay-TV by July 2022, the reduced VAT rates for transport, coffee, alcoholic beverages, cinemas, tourist packages, gyms, dance schools by June 2022. The new institutional framework for the regulation of total debts of households and businesses was put in place. We have reduced the volume of red loans successfully through the "HRAKLIS" programme. We have taken targeted measures in the energy crisis, increasing the state subsidy in electricity, gas supply and district heating accounts. We are strengthening the heating allowance by extending income and assets criteria of eligibility. We double the minimum guaranteed income for December. We pay an extra half-wage fee to health workers and workers in the EAW. We provide additional support to low pensioners. We provide additional assistance to disabled people. We are launching the return of the excise duty on diesel for farmers. We're reducing VAT on feed. We are giving tax incentives for further increasing electronic transactions, for combinations and cooperation between medium, small and micro-enterprises. The cost of social security funds is increased. OPEKA is aided to pay the child's allowance, the housing allowance, the social solidarity allowance of uninsured elderly persons, the promotional cash benefits for disabled persons, the allowance for any new child's birth and other programmes. The first sign is provided to young people who have no work experience. The grant of housing allowances to students in public IEK is extended. Insurance contributions for young workers are subsidised with a view to improving their access to the labour market. The programme "House and Work for the homeless" is being implemented. Public health expenditure will be increased in 2022, compared with 2021, and total expenditure will be EUR 11.7 billion, i.e. 6.3% of GDP, while health recruitment will cover 29% of total appointments with some six thousand recruitments by 2022. The budget strengthens the country's deterrent strength and the appropriations are increased by EUR 808 million compared to 2021 with the implementation of new armaments programmes. Greece is raising and highlighting its laws internationally, developing and expanding diplomatic relations with countries on its side. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to address three issues concerning the agricultural and livestock sectors and concerns farmers. The first concerns the allowances of the ELGA where progress has been made, but there is still a delay in their award, so that this delay is inhibited in the financial planning of farmers. The second concerns the acute problem of the cost of feed for farmers, which has doubled this year's winter, and it is not possible for farmers to cope with and survive their plants. The Ministry of Rural Development and Food, which first-hand is aware of the issue and is in a positive position, must take measures and strengthen farmers now that the problem exists. The third is the reduction in production costs, that is, supplies, fertilisers, medicines and electricity, where we need to look closely at the whole issue here. Finally, I must point out the cosmogenic changes made to the Ministry of Digital Governance. Within a year and a half the digital portal services increased from five hundred to three hundred and digital transactions from 8.8 million, which was 2018, are expected to exceed 350 million by the end of the year. Then the fight against bureaucracy that we have been talking about for years with digital integration and new digital functions in many areas that are gradually in place, will create a flexible, fast and effective state. Ladies and gentlemen, in the health crisis that we are experiencing, in the migratory crisis, in the climate crisis with the natural disasters we are facing, in the energy crisis that is at the forefront, the Government has quickly shown reflexes and is fighting in all ways consistently and responsiblely. And the state is present, it gives solutions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u455	Close, Mr. Lionides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u456	I shall conclude, Mr President. We don't claim infallibility. Besides, the Prime Minister who is always present at all, he does himself where he needs his self-criticism in public. It doesn't hide anything under the carpet, it doesn't distort reality. But the catastrophe of the opposition, which always stands against all these major issues, seeking only temporary party benefits, will demonstrate that between populism and rational, reliable and responsible politics which the government is exercising, the citizen rewards its own attitude and behaviour for the benefit of the social community as a whole and the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u457	The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u458	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have to vote on the budget at the top of the health and economic crisis. Before entering the budget, let me refer to a major and important matter for the pandemic, a consequence of the pandemic, which has to do with our democratic community. Western societies are fighting for the resilience of the Constitution. They are struggling for whether the constitutional institutions will endure or not. It is a fact that restrictions have been imposed on our society, restrictions that have to do with citizens' movement - they have been found legitimate, they had to be judged legitimate - with business and other rights. The counterweight to these restrictions was, and is freedom of expression, pluralism, pluralism and pluralism. Otherwise, the state tends towards authoritarianity, as happened in Hungary. Unfortunately, the government amended Article 191, the offense of false news, and this counterweight does not exist. As he managed the pandemic, he divided society by just putting responsibility on the citizens without a single apology. Because it has been heard in this Chamber about the bombing, I shall mention the statement made by one of the two teachers. The two teachers are Mr. Tsiodras and Mr. Lytras. Mr. Lytras said in a statement: “We are losing patients who are expected to live if they were cured under other conditions. In addition, we have crystal clear and unacceptable health inequality between Attica and the rest of Greece." This, ladies and gentlemen, is it a horror? An apology to the Prime Minister? From this, the Step was moving the hand to the opposition, in the Qualified Opposition by saying that there are no studies. What's that man's name? How would this man be objectively qualified as a person who, while he knew, hid it or did he not know, was not informed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u459	Why don't you read the whole statement?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u460	Because I don't read the whole statement! Because, as you said, it is also a matter of the budget.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u461	Read it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u462	Don't interrupt, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u463	Mr Colleague, because I see it bothers you, the question is this: is what I read true or false? Do you want me to read it again? "We lose patients..." said the professor, "that they are expected to live if they were cured under other conditions." Did he say that or didn't he say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u464	If there were any other circumstances! You're not saying that!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u465	Apparently, it hurts you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u466	Don't interrupt, Mr. Stamenitis. Nobody interrupted you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u467	But you don't have the elementary. The arrogance does not let you at least recognize that situations are difficult, that you have made and made many mistakes. It would be more honest to tell the Greek people directly that we made mistakes. Instead, you split up and divide Greek society. I come to the economic and health crisis. As it turns out, the support of the ESS is much less in the budget that you are calling on us to vote on. You gave the health staff crumbs without any substantial support. As far as permanent staff are concerned, they are calling for integration into heavy and unhealthy. Thousands of contractors who work in health structures are struggling. You're not saying anything about them. However, since you keep saying that we are not talking about the budget and that we have no proposals, what does the budget actually say? At some point, this candy must end, that it is the international factor that is to blame for everything. You could have said that many months ago, but not now. Now, because of your indifference and inertia, the debt of businesses, small and medium-sized enterprises, it is called upon to pay the household for it. How is that possible? I repeat, the debts of small and medium-sized entrepreneurs are being called upon to pay for a large part of society, households, consumers. Why is that? Because small and medium-sized enterprises, ladies and gentlemen, have had debts since 2010, because of the memoranda. Then came the 2020-2022 pandemic and new debts were created, second generation debt. Debts are paid either by reserves or by an increase in earnings. Could a small and medium-sized enterprise have reserves? Oh, no. How can an increase in profits be made? With an increase in sales, which is difficult to happen nowadays, due to a decrease in the purchasing power of society. Therefore, a one-way increase in prices in goods now. The dilemma that businessmen have is whether to pay the old debts or to pay the currents for their business so that their business remains open? And it is obvious that they will choose the second solution, leaving the debts. So the government is in the dilemma and will find itself at the dilemma, but because its strategic choice is that there should be no small and medium-sized enterprises, and that is why it should, even in the peninsula, take measures to support small and medium-sized enterprises by deleting part of the debt. If these companies are closed down, they will be much higher than the cost of supporting them. That is what small and medium-sized entrepreneurs want to hear today. However, it seems that you do not have a strategic choice for the primary sector as well. Those of us who are from rural areas know that electricity is unbearable. Bad lies! Let's not hide! There will be up to 150% increase in the accounts. Our proposal is this: The only way for there to be a counterweight to electricity for farmers is to commit a network of the TEN for renewable energy sources for farmers. To commit a network, not to be an entrepreneur and to sell the power from PV, but to offset it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u468	Finish, Mr. Red. We don't have any more time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u469	I shall conclude, Mr President. What is going on today, ladies and gentlemen? There is a document from the TEN which seems to have rejected requests from farmers - I will produce it in the Minutes - for subjecting to the plans to improve the well-known net metering, due to overloading of a network. So I ask you, ladies and gentlemen of the government, why did you not provide for farmers to participate in what we say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u470	Mr. Red...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u471	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u472	No, you're not finished. Eventually everyone says so and never ends. Hang up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u473	'Energy democracy'. Because obviously the budget is two speeds...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u474	Don't open any more topics, Mr. Red. You'll have other chances. Look at the clock and the time, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u475	I shall conclude, Mr President. So because the budget is two speeds, one for the figures and the other for the citizens and because for the citizens there is no clear provision and because it does not favour the social majority, we are therefore voting against it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u476	Ladies and gentlemen, you know that there are other colleagues who will in the end not be able to speak. But it is so late and the time that it cannot be accepted that each of you will be more than nine minutes. Excuse me very much, but there must be respect! For seven minutes, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Ioannis Lambropoulos, has the floor. Here, Mr. Lambropoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u477	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for almost two years now, our country has been facing, as we all know, difficult and extraordinary conditions because of the pandemic that has affected all mankind. Health systems, even financially powerful states, have been shattered or some have collapsed under the pressure of the pandemic. Do we forget what happened in Italy, Portugal, Spain, Great Britain, France, the United States? There has also been a direct impact on the economies of the world. In all the states there was a recession, a decline in income, an increase in unemployment and many other problems. In Greece these two years, apart from the pandemic and its effects on the economy, we have and have to deal with the aggression of Turkey, which was manifested by migration and provocative actions in the Eastern Mediterranean, the Aegean Sea and Cyprus. Along with all this, we have had extraordinary events, such as earthquakes, fires, floods, extreme weather phenomena, damage to farmers' production, and lastly imported accuracy has been added, following international increases in oil and gas prices. Since the transfer so far, and no government in our country has had to deal with such problems and problems. The Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis worked with courtesy and wisdom and managed to keep the health system, the economy, and also to organise the vaccination programme perfectly. He has given EUR 43 billion to support financially powerless, farmers and businesses, so that unemployment remains alive and does not increase. He treated Turkey's migration and provocative actions with coolness and determination. A large supply programme for spare parts and other systems was launched to enhance and upgrade the combat capacity of the country's Armed Forces. It provides high-tech weapon systems and creates a strong force to prevent, protect our peace and national integrity. He built and builds powerful strategic alliances and signs military agreements with powerful countries and neighbouring countries, such as the USA, France, Egypt, Israel, Saudi Arabia, the Arab Emirates, Jordan. It upgraded our country's strategic position and made it a factor of stability and peace in the wider region. At the same time, he went ahead with the reforms in all the structures of our state, in the economy, in the public administration. It has simplified procedures and created the conditions for attracting investment, increasing employment, even in the midst of a pandemic. It achieved a high growth this year of about 7% with forecast for over 4% in 2022 and coverage of all 2020 losses. Reduce taxes and social security contributions. With the Recovery Fund and the new NSRF, some EUR 70 billion will be set firm foundations and conditions for the long-term development of the economy, the national product and, of course, the improvement of the living standards of the Greeks. We are starting and planning road infrastructure, airports, floods, dams and many more in various key areas. The country's governance between 2004 and 2009 was planned and started building Greece's road axes, which brought growth and progress in the region. Today, also start road axes that were dreams of decades, such as the northern axis of Crete, ours in Messinia from Kalamata to Pylos and Methoni, Patra-Pyrgos and many others. We hope and believe to see the most important western axis of Kalamata, Chacona, Good Water, Tower that will end up in Yannina and that will change the look and bring great growth to all of western Greece. We envision an integrated road axis from Kalamata to Yannina, which, if combined with a maritime connection of Crete-Kalamata, will allow transport from Crete through Kalamata and Patras to reach Europe much sooner and more economically. With infrastructure, restructuring, aid for young farmers, organisation of processing and standardisation in the agricultural sector planned, we will give life and development to the countryside, as well as qualitative upgrading and increase in exports of our selected products, such as oil, raisins and Kalamas olives, which the Ministry of Rural Development owes to protect against competition from third countries, for example the Kalamata PDO. With the promotion of our cultural heritage, our natural beauty and the support of our tourism sector, we make Greece an international high-destination centre. Today, really, Greece is changing and modernising. We are gaining trust internationally. We borrow at zero or negative interest rates, we know our obligations to the IMF and we send a message of consistency and perspective for attracting large investment. Leave the crisis behind and move forward. This course is seen by international economic actors, by our partners in the European Union and by the Greeks who in each poll reflect their support and confidence in the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. In this good course of our nation we call on all parties to be together in the great national objectives - I conclude, Mr President - not to be divided for micro-political reasons. The ideological strangles and populism in today's era, which have all changed, must be a definitive past. With wisdom we must build the new Greece, after the ten years of economic crisis and pandemic, in order to deliver to our children a country for which it will be proud not only of its history and culture, but also of its modern course and its future. Thank you. Merry Christmas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u478	Thank you, Mr. Lambropoulos. Mr Athanasios Kavvada will now be given the floor. Until Mr Kavada has spoken, we shall make a statement to this House. The Ministers of Health, Finance, Development and Investment, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Environment and Energy, Civil Protection, Culture and Sport, Justice, Home Affairs, Immigration and Asylum, Infrastructure and Transport, Shipping and Island Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism, Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, the Ministers of State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Development and Investment, Health and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Secretarys to Prime Minister and Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 15-12-2021: ‘Agreements to counter the CIVID-19 pandemic and the protection of public health and other urgent provisions’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Here, Mr. Kavvada, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u479	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the 2022 budget is the third budget tabled by the Government of New Democracy. Both this and the previous 2020 and 2021 budgets were characterised by tax reductions, contrary to the policy of overtaxation that distinguished the previous government. Twenty-nine new taxes and twenty-nine pension cuts and contributions increased by the SYRIZA government in four and a half years. We have had an increase in rates, a reduction in tax, an increase in VAT and HPAI, abolition of tax exemptions, an increase in tax advances and, of course, an increase in indirect taxes that are also the most unfair, since they are horizontal and not proportionate. All this has been overturned by the Government of New Democracy in two and a half years, reducing the tax rates for natural persons and businesses, reducing the advance payment of tax, reducing HPAI and insurance contributions to the private sector, but also bringing tax and levy exemptions, such as the special solidarity contribution to the private sector and businesses and parent benefits. In the same direction, the 2022 budget, which has included new tax reductions, such as: The reduction of the tax rate for businesses from 24% to 22%, the second reduction made by the Government of New Democracy.The reduction in insurance contributions by three units.The extension of the exemption from the special solidarity levy for workers in the private sector, owners of real estate, farmers.The reduction of the advance tax payment for enterprises from 100% to 80% on a permanent basis and the reintroduction to 55% of the advance payment of income tax for business for natural persons and many other reductions in taxes. Ladies and gentlemen, in the face of this purely development economic policy, counter-population stands awkward. He tries to interpret the increase in tax revenues as a result of new taxes and when this argument is taken down, he sometimes turns to health issues, sometimes to social policy issues. I would like to ask the President-in-Office of the Council if he would like to make a statement on the situation in The Ministry's costs have continued upwards since 2019, reaching 5.3 billion euros this year, increased by 100 million. From the Recovery Fund 1.5 billion will be allocated to strengthening primary health, prevention and health structures. Along with the health costs of the other ministries, the total amount, which has been set aside for health, is EUR 11.7 billion, for the first time at 6.3% of GDP. We received five hundred seventy five IF beds and made them a thousand two hundred seventy-seven. Health units throughout Greece strengthened 12 thousand nurses and other staff, together with two thousand permanent and two thousand subsidiary doctors and continue, since 29% of total recruitments for 2022 concern health. Well, lame, health review. Does the criticism of counterpopulation stand about a allegedly lack of social policy and even through a global energy crisis? Here the Government of New Democracy has continued, as has been the first time in the health crisis. Support measures have been initiated since March 2020 to address the consequences of the pandemic of EUR 43.3 billion. These are measures that have kept businesses alive, measures that have income support for workers, measures that have maintained jobs and have retained unemployment. Now, in the face of this new international energy crisis, the government continues to show instant reflexes and act directly and effectively to support the real economy and households. Immediate interventions, the ones that have already been activated, cost 1.1 billion. Conservation of social cohesion is reflected in measures such as: State subsidy for all electricity accounts:Expanding the criteria for heating allowance to cover 80% of households.Suspension of network charges for all domestic gas consumers and the charge of public utility services for agricultural and industrial tariffs for five months. The additional EUR 250 aid to be increased by EUR 50 for each protected member to be paid to eight hundred thousand low pensioners. The payment to all beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income.The exceptional payment of half a monthly basic salary to health workers, EUR 43.5 million to a hundred seventy-three thousand disabled people. This argument is therefore also rejected. Taxation, health, social policy are areas where the government does what it needs to do when it is recognised by the citizens and reflected in polls. The opposition tactic adopted by the party of Officerial Response is a step in the gap. It is in complete misrepresentation with reality and public opinion. Ladies and gentlemen, EUROSTAT made information that Greece had the highest growth rates in the third quarter of the euro area with 13.4%. All this suggests that the budget forecasts that the growth rate for 2021 will move to 6.9% is rather conservative and will probably close by more than 7%. This means that in 2021 the Greek economy has covered GDP losses by two thirds, while the high growth rates for 2022, which, according to the budget forecast, will move to 4.5%, mark not only the full coverage of these losses, but also the increase of GDP as compared to 2019 by 1.7%. These calculations, I repeat, are likely to prove moderate. So the country's looking forward. It recovers the lost ground that the pandemic stole us. It passes through those who look back, those who have stayed in yesterday and walks towards the future with the support and, above all, with the confidence of the Greek people. The 2022 budget is a road map for a year on which, in response with readiness and effectiveness to challenges, we will develop a path towards growth and prosperity. I would like to congratulate the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stavoura, Deputy Minister of State, Theodoros Doulakakis, Deputy Minister of State, Apostolos Vesiropoulos, and their staff because for the third consecutive year they give us a budget - model social liberalism. The vote in favour of the budget is a vote of confidence not only in the government, but in the vote of confidence in the productive and development forces of that country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u480	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA, Mr Hussein Zabeck, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u481	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we have completed two years since the pandemic began and in our country. In these two years the balance sheet is very hard: nineteen thousand five hundred casualties of our fellow people and over one million cases. We are now in the fourth wave of the coronary pandemic and, unfortunately, forecasts are not reassuring. In these two years, of course, science gave us a valuable weapon, the vaccine, in the fight against the virus. However, the government has failed to make good use of it and to convince the citizens of the need for vaccination, while sanctions for the invaders are having the opposite effect. In this insecurity climate, neither the economy has remained unaffected, since in 2020, when the state proved completely unrealistic for the health crisis there was a downturn of 9%. Thus, the growth planned for 2022, which touches 4.5%, is no reason to celebrate. Besides, the important thing is that notorious growth is reflected in the daily lives of the citizens, which is worsening due to the accuracy and generalised insecurity of income and jobs. The government, with its current budget, seems to be inconsistent with reality. It does not take any initiative to deal with the accuracy of energy, fuel and appreciation. At the same time, the budget cuts expenditure on support to enterprises on the grounds that the activities have been opened. However, the footprint of the 2020 recession has not been erased and it is a delusion that the government considers that there is no need for support. On the grounds that we're done with the pandemic, it takes away 12.3 billion from the real economy, now making the debts due. Also, while Greece is among the worst performings in dealing with pandemic, we see a reduction in the health ministry's budget by 820 million euros and a reduction in hospital funding and primary health by 360 million euros. While bed coverage in intensive care units reaches 98.2%, the number of cases and imports remains constantly high and we have almost every day a hundred casualties, the government whistles indifferently. Unfortunately, the pandemic will be present and in 2022. Therefore, the New Democracy's obsession with the pandemic as a temporary situation is at least dangerous. Besides, even if the pandemic expires soon, public health support is required not only as a reserve for the future, but because of the remaining needs of the health system left behind. The hospitals are currently operating almost monothematically to cover patients with COVID. It was a recent decision to limit regular surgery by 80%. All these needs are accumulated and it is at least pointless to think that we are heading towards normalisation. For the second year we see that especially things in northern Greece are out of control. A characteristic case is my prefecture, Xanthi, which has already been hit since the first wave of pandemic. A daily phenomenon at the General Hospital of Xanthi is now the hospitalization of treated patients outside intensive care units. As we all know, the intubation of patients outside the ICU is unscientific and accompanied by 87% increased mortality, as much as it hurts you, according to the study Tsiodra - Lytra, while in Xanthi, unfortunately the rate is higher. The intensive care unit of the General Hospital of Xanthi remains closed almost two years. Despite the existence of two intensifiers, the unit cannot function as the staff are not sufficient. Unfortunately, the General Hospital of Xanthi has collapsed and the issue has been raised many times. As heroic as the efforts of the hospital’s medical and nursing staff fall into the void without the necessary support of the hospital from the Ministry. The Ministry of Health is responsible for the collapse and the icons of impounded outside the ICU in Xanthi. He can no longer say that he didn't know or that we're living an emergency treaty. No extraordinary treaty exists since the Hospital of Xanthi is in this tragic position for two whole years. The situation has been consolidated, and even at a time of pandemic that needs are increased and although resources have been collected to support the hospital, there is no political will to encourage doctors to come to Xanthi and support our hospital. You have introduced the extraordinary gift, equal to half the salary, for the recognition of the health contribution to the treatment of the coronary. But you cannot understand that half the wage cannot compensate for either unpaid overtime or exhaustion from the continuous shifts. A capable reward, beyond money, would be to be recruited directly to hospitals, not only to share the burden, but to save human lives. In the meantime, we know well that it does not only affect the invaders and adults. It is estimated that about 1/4 of daily cases are minors. That means the dispersion of the virus in schools is great. However, the Ministry of Education insists on the measure of 50%+1, which is supposed to be enough to open schools safely. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance we have tabled our proposals to address the issue. Immediately, the Ministry is required to recruit teachers, who were reduced this year to dismantle the departments. It is not meant to be stacked over twenty students per class. This puts themselves, their teachers and their families at risk. In the 2022 budget, it also appears that spending on education is well-established, despite the increased needs of tele-education. Overall, the government seems to live in a parallel universe of its own and underestimate the effects of pandemic, dishonesty and the wave of precision that drowns the Greek households. It calls for a strong recovery, but for society to be absent. Unfortunately for our society and our country, which is experiencing a health, economic and social crisis, we have the misfortune of a neoliberal government that does not believe in the public health system and the social state. More urgent than ever, the need for a change of course and for an alternative plan to exit from the health and economic crisis, with the EHS standing, with social cohesion and dignity, with the restoration of the democratic and labour rights that have been so affected by this government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u482	Thank you, too. Mr Theocharis Theocharis, Member of the New Democracy, has the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u483	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I would like to ask for a minute's tolerance as well as as as a parliamentarian, if you would like, for a moment - because we have heard too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u484	I do not understand what you said, Mr. Theochari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u485	I say I will ask for your tolerance for a minute, to speak a little outside of the budget, on the issues of the pandemic that have been raised...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u486	No, Mr. Theochari. Look, you speak as a Member of the New Democracy, so you will be treated equally.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u487	Mrs. Arabaji isn't here. I replace her until the end of the meeting...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u488	Oh, no. Please warmly, just so we're all good.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u489	In any case, we watched a show by a number of SYRIZA people, with Mr Triantafylides, at least for the moment I was present, for the management of the pandemic. First of all, I would like to put forward one of the latest papers on research from the Bertelsmann Foundation, which demonstrates that during the whole crisis, our country has one of the best positions in the management of the pandemic, and even one of the best positions among the most developed countries in the world and in the functioning of democracy during the pandemic. And we remember all of our SYRIZA colleagues telling us when the measures for the pandemic were taken in Parliament that democracy is not working in our country. And our country comes to be awarded in such studies about how it manages it abroad, and to listen to what we hear from the opposition. But I don't understand exactly if Mr. Triantafylides understands what he read in the study. Because what he has said and the data from the study, and all the apologies he has asked us to ask, are inconsistent with each other. Why does this study say? It says, for example, that while we have a thousand three hundred ICUs, out of four hundred and upward staff, it is not enough and we are starting and having problems in operation. So SYRIZA's proposal to make three thousand IF to what would help? Nothing. Apologise to SYRIZA for deceiving the Greek people. Does it matter whether the staff are permanent or temporary? If it's not enough, it's not enough for the staff. To ask for an apology when SYRIZA says the problem is the permanentization of the staff, to apologise when you mislead the Greek people about the circumstances of the ESS, when waiting at the SYRIZA SYRIZA was ninety METHs every year and without pandemic and when the state of the National Health System was ten times worse than it is today with the New Democracy. So I quote for the Minutes this post, to understand how much damage you're doing. (Theocharis Theocharis) Theocharis presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice.) Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the budget is a debate on the future and prospects of the country and I would like to go on with it. You are insisting on this deplorable opposition because you have no arguments on the budget. The budget put forward by the New Democracy Government supports our programme, the programme implemented by the government and is therefore clearly developmentist, clearly fair, a budget of responsibility, a guide to return to normality. The country has already entered a developmental orbit. Reforms, success in dealing with successive crises, the rapid reflexes of the government, which made people's sense of insecurity, have been the prerequisites for this development shift. The result justifies us. I'm presenting you with a final article with the UniCredit forecasts on the development explosion in our country. But the European Commission's forecasts also deserve us. In GDP we have the third best performance this year and the sixth of the year. We will be one of the first countries to recover 2019 GDP. In inflation we are the best country in Europe and you know that we can regain competitiveness when our own inflation is lower than the other countries. Of course, de-escalation is also evident in unemployment. I am therefore tabling all these diagrams in the Minutes. Our country succeeds, compared to other much more developed countries. These results are not random. It is a development that reflects the best performance of tourism this year. Contrary to every prediction and disprovement of the persistent risk of Officerial Opposition, tourism generates more than 10 billion euros. This shows the most recent data on the performance achieved by the tourism sector in the quarter to October, which makes me - if you want me personally - proud. At the same time, how does SYRIZA do? It says 'no' to every initiative of the government. Both with the vaccines and with the anti-vaccinators and with the opening of tourism and with the closure of tourism. Even in the bill that these days come to Parliament to vote and creates the pillars of strategy in the development of the tourist product, you say no. But the development, ladies and gentlemen, is done in terms of social justice. Recruitment in the health sector only accounts for 29% of total appointments. Here, then, is the lie of SYRIZA. That's how we respond to Mr. Chiodra's study. We are talking about at least six thousand new jobs. The funds for health are increased, however much as the people of Antipopulation are trying to mislead. Extreme funds, in fact, but also for the pandemic, remain available to the government and in 2022, so that support can continue wherever and for as long as necessary. The development, increased absorption of European funds, the new tools that we have put together, such as the Development Fund, allow us to finance policies with a social dimension, such as increasing the minimum wage, twice - we have heard before - that the minimum wage is not increased, in fact, I cannot understand where the criticism that we hear, if actually goes - the creation of the climate crisis ministry, a fair transition, strategic plans for equality or for vulnerable groups, but also increased needs in education and health, without increased taxes. On the contrary, we begin in 2022 with all the reductions, which we have already introduced, plus several further, the preventive measures for the accuracy, in which the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis proceeded decisively and, long before most European countries, so that the international wave of dishonesty does not get to threaten the income of the Greek citizen. You have already seen, in my graph, that the country has better protected its citizens than anyone else in Europe against this global phenomenon. What's SYRIZA doing at the same time? Without a beard, he's giving us the bleeding of the middle class! He's making spots for potatoes and lettuce, which have nothing to do with reality. You have come to vote against the law on penalties for negative parents who do not send their children to school. Listen,son-hearson! Where's your social sensitivity? How is these children's right to education protected, on the only supply, which will enable them to improve their conditions of life? Ladies and gentlemen, the budget we are debating is also a budget for responsibility, because in 2022 we will be called upon to change direction. We even leave back the memorial surveillance and go out on the markets. And in order to do this, we need a realistic budget. As soon as today's budget implementation figures show 1.1 billion overdraft of the deficit objective and imply growth perhaps by more than 8%. And what do we expect from you in Opposition? ‘No’ to all benefits and allowances. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my speech, I will not fail to highlight certain features of the budget that have not been emphasised enough in our debate, because they are doing so with an innovation budget. For the first time, the logic of the performance budget is introduced, a deep political division, as expenditure is linked to specific action programmes, with concrete results and specific performance and evaluation elements. In this year the major road to the integration of the environmental dimension into the budget, the so-called 'green budgeting', began. By 2025, all budget programmes will have their environmental footprint integrated and therefore the country's policies will have green transparency. This is reform in practice. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government demonstrates that in the modern concept of the social state, in the modern concept of what is progressive, the predominant criterion is not a micropolitical one. On the other hand, everything is judged on the basis of the effectiveness of the measures and reflexes in real problems and at heavy time. As long as our government does this, as long as we do it, we are sure that our relationship with society is indisputable and inexorable. Our guide is always two principles: we said it, we did it and we developed it for everyone. That is precisely what we are implementing with the budget of 2022, the budget that lays the foundations for Greece of optimism, extroversion, self-confidence and progress. This Greece, which, in your negative vote, proves to be a disaster. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u490	And we thank Mr. Theocharis and we are finishing tonight with SYRIZA MP Mr. Konstantinos Markos. Mr Marcus, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u491	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last previous speaker - but also several of you, from the majority - has told us that we are calling for more intensive treatment units, because the Chiodra study says that more than four hundred beds are increasing mortality, so we must apologise. What do you drink and you don't give it to us and we can drink it and watch it like that? Tell us what you're drinking? Because there's no other reason to understand it. This budget is the second, to be voted on, the third, by the Government of New Democracy, and possibly the last, of that Government. The matter of days, then, is the Chiodra study, which you really have a special intensity in overthrowing it. Watch out. We have a record of deaths - hundreds of thirty - and a record of lies. Death has our respect and pain. But lies have our wrath. From this Step forward, the Prime Minister said that there is no indication that there is more mortality for the outsiders and moving the hand, said: "I don't have, do you? Bring her in." Look, you don't have to be a medical professor, someone doesn't have to be a doctor, you don't have to be a student, it just has to be rational, understand that for non-methods intubated, it's worse to treat their health. No one needs to be a scientist. Now the two scientists have published it. Mr. Prime Minister refused. It can't be, two things have to happen. He's either a liar or a fool. One of the two. I fear that they are both because, this morning one of the researchers, Mr Tsiodras, said, 'we gave the study to the decision-makers'. So he's lying, but also because he doesn't understand the obvious, he's also foolish. Now, as is the case with public health, there is a router, a neoliberal router and now creates a different school. A school of dark, punishing, with features that are inconsistent with the nature of the educational process. One would expect that last year's fiasco would lead to a greater sensitivity, but to such a cynical government that adopts the "saving self-sacrificing one" by crushing children, teachers and parents, we do not see it. You have taken no action on the learning process. The schools started with thousands of vacancies in teachers, while on the way, the departments merged in the middle of a pandemic. They've merged. Health measures and tracing within school units, we're not talking about it. Last year's budget, which was substantiated for education and fully inequitable with needs, was maintained itself when you lowered costs by reducing school halls and teachers, making savings and travels. Now we'll see tertiary education as well. At universities, the same and worse. Your only care is to hire special guards - you hired them, you say you train them - and you do not hire teaching staff nor with one to one, the one that was secured. You hire police officers instead of training staff at universities. In research centres, no grant. An unsatisfactory legislative 'bulimia' - and we expect in January another bill - with authoritarian and new conservative institutional framework in the EITs. This "Bulletia" is also in your hand with your "responsibility" in everything in the public, but only a struggling effort to memorize private interests. New financing framework for universities. Set up an algorithm to fund universities, which will become a model of manipulation. You treat the academic community from autonomy in its movement, its development, its research, its education. You give 80% by means of some criteria, which are extremely vulnerable and the subject of hard criticism, can also be dealt with in the education bill - and then you give one more to 20%, based on the quality assessment and achievements that the regional universities will pay off. In fact, you're turning universities into businesses and students to customers. This is your educational model, a model that seeks to mutation from academic institutions to commercial companies. That is why you are underfunding public education. But there is another model, the model that sees growth, the increase in expenditure on education, as happened in 2015-2019, which defends the public school, the public university, because it sees education as a condition of mobility. That's the model we're serving. And, secondly, you've lost your casualties. They empty the Ministries of Education and Health, mass pensions. Over the past two years, with official figures, the pensions of civil servants have increased by 33% in 2021 compared to 2020 and by 85% compared to 2019. People leave public and education and health. And finally, another chapter that is really ignored in our debate: sport. How many people expected there to be in this draft budget for sport based on the pandemic's attacks, which would, first of all, be reasonable for the budget to be governed by a reasonable support for human resources, since the organised sports services were sealed? Secondly, it would be expected that the state would use the budget as an opportunity to develop policies linking physical exercise and sport to public health. I will not be late, Mr President. Finally, the project does not show any developmental perception or effort to improve sports infrastructure. The budgetary data that you have brought here now do not agree that there is some elementary strategy either in mass physical exercise or in racing sport, that is, an overall sports policy. On the contrary, extreme neoliberal perception without even a framework of rules of control and accountability, assigning pieces to private entrepreneurship. In the budget now under discussion, Minister, in 2022 sport accounts for 0.05% of the total expenditure in the ordinary budget. That's disappointing. You say that you have increased the amount by EUR 35 million. But let's see, these 35m euros have already been made available to the sports anonymous companies, your friends, and nothing has been attributed to amateur sports clubs from the corresponding amount of 2021. In fact, amateur associations, on the basis of the ministerial decision, will not be able to collect, because they must have corresponding revenues, sponsorships, advertising, television rights, etc. Where to find them at this time? They won't collect them either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u492	Finish, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u493	The Public Investment Programme has not provided any funds, zero euros for 2022 for the support of sports infrastructure. Even the resources from the NSRP for the digital modernisation of the General Secretariat of Sport have been removed. That is why sport is not even seen in the recovery plan. Because there is not even a half euro for sport!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u494	Shut up, we're late.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u495	It is obvious that Greek sport, which operates as an economic instrument, does not receive backwards for what is appropriate and simply serves the central and local interests of customers. Ladies and gentlemen, the displacement of the consciences of society is visible and this displacement is perhaps the most optimistic message of a very tough year that has ended and we will see that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u496	The time has already gone 1.15 ́. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-15-S1-commons.u497	With the consent of the House at 1.15 p.m. the sitting is closed for Thursday, December 16, 2021, at 9 p.m., on the subject of this House's legislative work: continue to discuss the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'State Budget for the financial year 2022'.
