ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good morning, we shall begin the sitting. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 1/4/2021, PZ's minutes of Thursday 1 April 2021 were ratified by the Bureau, with regard to the vote on the entire draft law: ‘Requirements for the harmonisation of Greek legislation with the revised, with effect from 1.1.2021, the Antidopting Code of the World Organisation of Antidopting’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION In accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, at the initiative of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Fotini (Phot) Gennamata, at the level of the Heads of Government, on the need for an effective national plan to address the pandemic and its effects on the economy. Pursuant to Rule 143(4) of the Rules of Procedure the duration of the speech of the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement Mr Fotini Gennimatas, on whose initiative today's debate is taking place, is twenty-five minutes of the hour and twenty-minutes of the hour for each of the Presidents of the four other parliamentary groups, i.e. SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Communist Party of Greece, Greek Solution and Mera25. Under the Rules of Procedure, two Ministers may participate in the debate. The Prime Minister has the right for 15 minutes and for 10 minutes the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups. Finally, the Prime Minister has the right to tritology for five minutes of the hour. I would like to ask the Mrs and the Commissioners to keep this margin in place. It is true - as we previous speakers have said - that there will be a reasoned tolerance, but basically let us try to keep track of the times. The maximum number of those that may be present in the Chamber - according to the current health protocols - is up to fifty Members and please do so. In particular, twenty-six MPs from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, fourteen from the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance, four from the Change Movement Parliamentary Group and two from the other Communist Party Parliamentary Groups, the Greek Solution and the Mer25. After that, Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis has the floor for twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you for reminding me of the need to keep time, of course, recognizing that the first speaker always gives it to him. I shall therefore try not to escape much of the time limits you have set, so that overall these discussions do not go far beyond their planned duration. Ladies and gentlemen, I take the floor for the tenth time in twelve months to speak at the National Delegation for the pandemic, and this is without summing up my dozens of references to it with other parliamentary considerations. I think it is something that once again demonstrates that our parliamentary democracy works in spite of the difficulties caused by the coronary, but also that the government is always willing to inform both the citizens and the parties, claiming as much as possible from everyone a common attitude towards a common problem. I wish, of course, that the meetings on this matter were fewer. We would all wish that we would have finished the pandemic's capital and now write the first lines of a new period of prosperity. Unfortunately, however, everywhere in the world, the virus appears extremely resistant to its epilogue and its aggressive mutations impose adjustments to our own defensive tactics until mass vaccination brings the final victory. That is why I consider it extremely useful today's debate caused by the President of the Change Movement. Because we are in front of one more - the truth is that we have said so many times - a critical two-month period of battle with the covid. We hope that it will be the last. It is another chance to see what happened, what is happening, especially what needs to be done, what we have achieved as a state, where we have stumbled, broken lies and myths. Mostly it is an opportunity to face reality in the face of a realistic plan this year's spring to finally bring the true summer to Greek society. I have said that I would not like to invoke international data, which even reflect painful, very unpleasant data. But once we have to agree on a common basis at last. The language of numbers, the language of documentation is the only democratically valid way to coexist and agree. Without them we will simply have parallel monologues, and that is not something that takes our democracy further. Without a common code of understanding and interpretation of this extremely complex pandemic phenomenon, we are at risk either of downgrading serious successes or, worst of all, of not recognising errors that will make us better. So I hope, at least today, that we too recognize what the whole world recognizes, the numbers of international organisations which have been reflecting our overall return from the beginning of the pandemic to the present day. According to the European Health Agency, Greece is still in the 20th place today in losses per million inhabitants. That's the relative graph. I will say again that if we were on the European average, Mrs Gennimata, Mr Tsipras, Mr Koutsoubas, Mr Varoufakis, Mr Velopole, we would still have eight thousand dead, that is, a town. So this is a success of the country in the toughest, most painful statistic, but it shows how we have faced the pandemic crisis since its beginning. It is a disaster of any human loss, but this cannot cancel the country's overall effort, which is reflected in real elements and real facts. I shall return to this matter shortly. I give it to you for the record. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] On the issue of vaccinations, because I have also noted a reference to Mrs Genomemata's question about delays and failures in vaccinations, let us agree that on the basis of the available vaccines we have - I will come back to this issue - Greece today is in the fifth best European position as a percentage of the population that has been vaccinated with two doses of vaccines. Corresponding performance is also in the first dose. I am tabling this document in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because we have had a lot of criticism on the test question, I will submit to the National Representation the ECDC table on the average number of testes in our country. We are a little better than the European average. Indeed, there are some countries, some areas that are better than us, and we also have the possibility of improving them considerably. But there are many more tests in our country today than how many were two months ago. Indeed, because I often hear accusations from the Opposition, mainly from the Civic Opposition, for massively free tests, I would like to point out that more than two out of three tests in the country are free of charge. Most testes that have taken place in the country are free. I put these two tables in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above tables, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And one last thing that is now included in global measurements, as 13 months have been completed since COVID hit the whole planet. You'll understand that, Mr. Xanthi, as you're an expert. I'll talk about the index of additional mortality. What is additional mortality? It is the losses, which are recorded in a country other than those recorded every year, that is to say how many deaths Covid added over and above our fellow citizens who would lose their lives in a normal year. According to a valid French study, therefore, our country has one of the best performances in Europe with an additional mortality rate of 6.6% when Italy, for example, has 24.8%, the Czech Republic 26.7%. I also present this study in the Minutes to study it. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above study, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] We have said from the outset that the management of the pandemic is a marathon and it is not a spring, and it is a mistake to evaluate the management with stigmats, with photos of the moment, to lose the big picture and the overall indicators that arise cumulatively from the entire duration of the pandemic. Therefore, despite the great difficulties one is the conclusion of all the scientific approaches, that while the planet experiences a new wave of pandemic that strikes our country as well, Greece has done better than other states that have more organized health systems. I'm going to hurry to say first that mistakes were made. The first is that I have recognized them. The image of destruction, however, which counterpopulation is a lie. It is a lie that unfairs the country, but mainly offends all those who are fighting themselves at night - day with the virus. Ladies and gentlemen, obviously no one celebrates nor even smiles when we have almost eight thousand dead. But we must not tidy up all of what we have achieved. That the intensive treatment units of five hundred and fifty-seven received today are a thousand four hundred seventy-five is not a claim, it is a reality. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The thousands of recruits, which were made in the health system, are not a rumour, it is a fact - and you know it well - that from the two hundred and forty private ICU beds, the hundreds of seventy-four have already been committed by the National Health System, because in our political perception, all hospitalization structures, public, military and private, when needed, acquire a single centre and a single purpose. That is, literally, a National Health System! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Indeed, the last attack by the covid hit and hits the whole European continent, but in Greece, partly - I stress - was blocked thanks to the measures we took in February and already, despite the exacerbation of the cases, the virus's positiveity remains today when we talk at lower levels than the European average. Our hospitals, even with very great difficulties, respond. Yes, they have been under pressure without prior weeks in Attica hospitals, but the performance of their people has no precedent and the effort continues. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Checks took place when needed and they'll be done again, if necessary. So, in Attica at least that was under high pressure, the rate of import and sequencing shows, fortunately, stabilization trends, while our older patients are falling, as they are now shielded by vaccination. But, no illusions, the problems remain. The restrictions we have imposed over the last six weeks have been added to the difficulties of an entire year and this has raised the pressure on the citizens who have gradually started to stray. It was not only the nearly seven hundred protests, the risk of which someone accepted, it was also the daily little or major violations, from the mere omissions of sending a sms, to the savage parties and home meetings. And all of this, while the greater massage gained this phenomenon, the more de facto their control became. Because they're not just tired of citizens, they're tired of surveillance. So we need a sincere, new reading of reality. And this starts with the basic assumption that the current measures have played a decisive role in intercepting the third wave. They were decided early, they worked, and so we avoided the worst. We are now entering a new phase, which has other features. We know that against us we have a more aggressive mutation. We have seen the results, the contagiousity of British mutation is between 40% and 60% increased compared to the initial version of the virus that we faced until October and November. But now we have an ally a more friendly time. We have a more exhausted society, but we also have the most powerful ally at our disposal that is vaccines. Our position is therefore adjusted in accordance with the flexible policy that we have followed from the outset. This is how it happens everywhere, ladies and gentlemen. See, for example, parallel changes in tactics in Germany, France, Spain, Portugal. No country followed the same strategy as it started when the pandemic first hit. In fact, we all have to adapt to a phenomenon that is constantly changing, to evaluate measures that have worked and to strengthen them, to abolish measures that have not worked and to have an approach that must be characterised by realism, flexibility and constant careful monitoring of real epidemiological data. And I personally are not a few times that I was forced, in cooperation with the Ministry of Health, to change designs. When we saw a new given, such as the speed of spreading the British version of the virus and when an unexpected event emerged, such as the delays in vaccine delivery, the failure of a particular company, the 'ASTRAZENCA', to comply with the commitments of the agreement signed with the European Union. Indeed, Europe has not told us everything well here. On the one hand, it succeeded in solidarity, with the joint purchase of vaccines for all its members and their disposal with a unique key to the distribution of population, without distinguishing riches from poor countries, large from small ones. Yes, indeed, that was an important European decision. However, Europe has failed at the same time to provide the necessary quantities and to supply the Member States, so that today everyone recognises, and the World Health Organisation, that unfortunately, the course of vaccination in Europe is hopelessly slow. I'll say it again, though. This is not due to the weaknesses of the Member States and it is certainly not because of Greece's weakness. Greece today, if she had double the vaccines at her disposal, would have double the vaccines. If she had three-fold vaccines at her disposal, she would've had three-fold vaccines. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Other countries have not done so well in organising the vaccination process. And, indeed, I regard it as tiny - I shall say as I feel it - an operation such as the 'Freedom' operation, which, in principle, works exemplarily thanks to the sacrifice of thousands of public servants, military and health officials, and thanks to the extremely successful support from the Ministry of Digital Policy, making this whole process very easy for users, this successful operation does not have the elementary recognition by the anti-population parties. It is a success for the country that "Freedom", and it is positive for the country when there are foreign publications and references to countries considered far more advanced: "See how well Greece has achieved vaccination when other countries are still stuck in the paper era". However, the new conditions are certain to require targeted interventions. Attention! It's a mistake to talk about opening up. I'll say it again. It is wrong to talk about opening up and much more appropriate to talk about adapting activities. This is why, with the cooperation of scientists, the government has made a number of decisions: Firstly, it decided at first stage on weekends to allow, especially in the large metropolitan centres such as Attica, recreational movements for exercise between the municipalities. Why did we do that? In order not to conspire citizens for individual exercise, to recreation in the few open spaces of a region. After all, this measure, if we were to maintain it for a long time, would have been classic, unfair to those who do not live in a suburb. That is why we considered it appropriate for the weekend which begins, this measure to change, to amend it. On Monday it will also reopen the retail trade, but in an extremely coordinate and organised way, which all the members of the committee agreed with, with the exception of a scientist, if I am not mistaken. Because it has been shown that retail trade can function organisedly. And perhaps epidemiologically, it is more good to have the citizens to evacuate, while at the same time supporting their local market than to gather, without informing, in houses, the masks and relaxing, thus facilitating the transmission of the virus into enclosed spaces. I therefore think that, from an epidemiological point of view, this is a measure which can have positive effects, provided it always does, I stress that it will also lead citizens to a change of attitudes, which on the one hand are absolutely expected, but on the other we know that they have a significant negative impact on the spread of the virus. Of course, shortly thereafter and after seeing the results within the next week, we should also consider the functioning of education, starting from high school, because students in the third grade have before them the full-scale examinations in several areas of the country, including Attica, been gone many weeks, months all of their schools. So, as you can see, these two counterweights of freedom have a common thread that connects them. They are trying, on the one hand, to alleviate the long-term pressure that citizens have to bear, to turn social action into open spaces, now that the weather is helping us instead of house concentration, to respond to the needs of our young people and, of course, to drive the economy to its first cowardly steps of reopening. Because there are not only those who have kept their income all this time, but those who want to reclaim it. Attention, though! More freedom means more responsibility. From the moment, for example, when we allow trans-democratic movements, we should not see crowding phenomena either in squares or on the beach where only the public can gather or tell us that only the citizens of the municipalities who are coastal are gathered. So in the same way - I will say again - the restrictions have been reduced if we find that we still have crowding phenomena, the restrictions can come back. But we have full confidence in the citizens that they will make the right use of this breath of freedom, avoid the crowds and make use of their ability to find themselves out only in very small groups of three or with their family, without excessive conspiracy. For the economy, I will have the opportunity to speak a little more thoroughly in my dentistry, because it is also part of the question that Mrs Gennamas has asked me. I will only say in my protagonist that in the 24 billion spent by the Greek Government in 2020, at least 14 billion more will be added to 2021. The total budget, that is, will reach 40 billion euros in support of the Greek economy by the Greek Government. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We have the possibility to be able to provide this support, because the country has again gained credibility in its access to international markets, borrowed at historically low interest rates, and can, at the same time, keep its cash available at such a level that allows us targeted and always in a way that we consider to be effective, to be able to support the real economy, when and as necessary. A very good example of such targeted support is the measure that I announced yesterday, 330 million in the focus sector, so that we can help our restaurants reopen their restaurants when the epidemiological conditions allow it. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] This amount will be allocated as a working capital for the first three months of the reopening of the focus so that the owners of the focus stores can obtain raw materials. It is a measure that has been very warmly welcomed by the focus sector. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the President of the Government is ringing.]] Mr President, I'm going to need ten more minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u3	We are in the fragile territory of the reasoned extension. Understood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u4	That's right. April 2021 is not April 2020. The changes in mentality have now been added to the pandemic mutations. Then the enemy was still unknown. Universal restrictions met universal acceptance. On the contrary, today we are faced with a much more aggressive member of the covid, but also with the strengths of the economy and of the citizens to be on their limit. I would say that self-government from the fear of 2020 is at risk of turning into indiscipline and coexistence with fear in 2021 and the accumulated fatigue of society to delay the upcoming defeat of the epidemic. We are not, of course, alone in this development. In all European countries - you see it daily in television receivers - there is fatigue, there is, at the same time, questioning the measures. A portion of European societies reacts and is increasingly in line. In Greece we are much better. We have to recognize that. Despite the tiredness of the world and the small misconceptions to which I have referred, the vast majority of citizens are observing the measures, and I would like to thank them for that, because if this had not happened, with such an aggressive virus, things would have been much worse. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But, of our fellow citizens who tell us - and especially young children - 'I am tired, I want to go out', I ask: Consider the fatigue of our health, consider the fatigue of doctors, nurses, who give an unstoppable battle to take care of our health, of everyone's health. I therefore fully share this fatigue and diffuse anxiety. Especially for our young people is very difficult, because they feel inappropriate and we really know that the virus does not substantially affect them. In the worst case they will get slightly sick and at best - and at the most dangerous at the same time - they will be asymptomatic and transmit the virus. However, we still have two difficult months to deal with and we should all do this final effort, but with two important additional tools in our patron. The first is the self test tool. I will not dwell on the unacceptable way that Civicism has dealt with this whole story and the posts of your officials who have allegedly tried to identify this important investment that the Greek state makes with privileged relations with a particular company. It was a sad attempt, and I think it was shot down by the contest itself, to which this company did not even participate. I will only say, however, that it is very important to agree in this Chamber that self test is a very important, subsidiary tool in order to be able to return to normal conditions. For example, it is very important that we should be able to reopen our schools, give all students - the first of them - to have done twenty-four, eight hours before the schools opened a self test, and give them a certificate at the school that they are, in fact, negative, so that they can return to their ranks. That's good. It's good for all of us. To agree in this Chamber that self test is important. Neither PCR nor organised antigen tests are substituted, which will continue with even greater intensity. It is very important, however, to be able to know about the safety of our home, whether we have or do not have the coronary. And, of course, if we are positive, we have an obligation to state this and to carry out a reconfirmation test. I would like to stress that we are the first country to proceed with the mass supply of self test and their organised disposal to the entire Greek population. And because you will be rushing to say a number of things about privileged contracts and interactive relations, I would like to present the report of the Court of Auditors, which in three days' time - and I would like to thank the Court of Auditors for its speed, because he realised the criticality of this procurement - he took his decision and stated that everything was well with this tender. [[At this point, the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] So this is the first tool we have at our disposal. And if there are thoughts, suggestions, ideas, how self-tests can be exploited better, here we are so that we can hear them, discuss them, and wherever we need to adapt our strategy. The second tool we have, of course, are vaccines. We were committed to the Minister's commitment that by the end of March we would have inoculated a million seven hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. We fell out by a thousand five hundred vaccines. We bombed one million six hundred ninety-eight thousand of our five hundred fellow citizens. We did a million sixty-sixty-eight thousand five hundred vaccines. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And with the same security, I can tell you now that in April we will make 1.5 million vaccines. In May and June even more. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] We therefore want until the end of May we have managed to protect with at least one dose all our fellow citizens over sixty, all those susceptible to severe underlying illnesses and category (b) with the least serious underlying illnesses, so that until Easter we have built a first wall of immunity and by the end of May we will also have begun to vaccinate the general population. And, of course, if the European Union manages to obtain more vaccines, we have the full operational capacity at any time to increase the capacity of the system and to make many more vaccines every day than thirty thousand that we are doing today. And, of course, the European Union has an obligation - and that is what I mentioned at the last summit - to make use of all the legal instruments at its disposal to force companies which have signed contracts with the Union to comply with their contractual commitments. And if that means a ban on exports from the European Union until the needs of Europe are met following the agreement signed by these companies, and that is something that must be done and done. I am therefore closing down, Mr President, to give first of all the message that I am trying to be relatively consistent with the time fixed, saying that today is indeed an opportunity to leave behind a ruthless dispute - which I think the citizens also leave them indifferent - to be able to agree on a number of key axes on how to move in the next few months, to hear if there are any useful proposals from the parties that we can incorporate in our strategy. After all, Mr Xanthos knows that - there have been too many briefings from the Ministry of Health to the parties. Of course, when these meetings are held behind closed doors, the climate is very different from - in introductory words - 'war' climate which exists every time the Party of Officers is specifically making a public statement critical of the pandemic. So we are here to discuss, but by recognizing - and I will close with this - that there are actually three strategies for pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u5	Please be quiet, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u6	One is the strategy of authoritarian regimes, that is, horizontal restrictions, no one can escape what the state says. In any case, some countries have succeeded and checked the pandemic successfully. The second strategy is the strategy of immunity of the herd. We do not care much - very much what will happen - we will leave everything freely, some time they will get sick enough, many will die, but at least we will save our economic lives. There is also the third strategy, which is the strategy that Europe has finally followed. It is the path of European democracy, which is a different path. We've been prescribing most of all human life. We have agreed to impose great constraints on economic activity, recognizing that we will suffer a great deal of cost. We rushed as Europe to borrow at European level and to support the Member States with additional resources so that we could put our economy's machinery back on track. We will discuss the draft 'Greece 2.0' when it comes to Parliament. But, at the same time, the path of European democracy has its own price. It is the price of understanding and a prerequisite for this is the political reason not to be warfare, because violent speech very often also produces violent action. So I'll repeat that I'm here to look for compositions. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, and I am closing down with it, Mr President, I believe that they have another dimension in light and a more optimistic perspective. The economy and society, despite difficulties, have endured a long-term test. They come out of it more mature, more powerful, ready to welcome, not just tourism in the summer. I am open to discuss with you and the way in which we will open tourism in the summer, so that we do not see the same recurring 'open tourism' again and then 'why did you open tourism'? So to discuss the way and the conditions in which to open up tourism. I would like to remind you that Greece was the first to come out in front of the 'green' certificate, which some have smuggled and mocked at the time and is now becoming a European policy. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] ... so that we can have a single digital evidence of whether someone's been vaccinated or has done a negative test. This is a great success for Europe and success for our country, because that is the only way to welcome tourists safely. Of course, we have before us the great challenge of the Recovery Fund for the new Greece, "Greece 2.0" of the future. I'm sure we'll get to the end of the night. It is our duty to bring the bright dawn closer to us, i.e. to get to Easter safer and more free in the summer. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u7	Immediately after the Prime Minister, the President of the Change Movement Parliament's parliamentary group, Mr. Phofi Gennamas, is called in Step, which is twenty-five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u8	Mr Mitsotakis, I would like to note that you have come today with another look and another tone and another mood. Of course, how it could be different, because things are not going well. It is clear that you have failed to manage the pandemic at all levels. You have signed your signature in unnecessarily lockdown - accordion and in the longest course of lockdown across Europe, but failed. Your meter went straight. You didn't manage to convince the citizens. You led the National Health System to "deep red", families with children, with students, with students really in despair and psychological collapse, workers in insecurity, poverty and in the face of the danger of unemployment and the market and small and medium-sized enterprises in a tortureous slow death. You have divided and even involved the scientists of the committee in political opportunism, which has created even greater confusion and insecurity among the citizens. And we finally had to break a record of cases and go through, so that you could finally come here to Parliament and discuss this tone, talking about consultation for the first time in a year. The reason why we have insisted and insisted so personally on having this debate, ladies and gentlemen, is precisely because we were seeing what is coming. We saw the need for a national plan to prevent what we are currently living. You insisted on taking measures that did not confront pandemic, was not effective. On the contrary, they aggravated the situation. It's getting worse. Now the responsibility of all of us is very great. Every delay, every revolt, every false hope, every exacerbation is even more disappointing to the already very tired Greek society, and it leads to a blow to social cohesion, which we have so expensively paid for in previous years. So you have not the right, Mr Mitsotakis, but you too, Mr Tsipras, to the chords that you have used to us all the previous years and the artificial exacerbation that you have chosen in recent times, to turn us back to those times when the voices of reason were drowned by the voices of demagogue, division and misinformation. And I hope that we do not see another similar debate today. I hope that this different climate will continue until the end and that the debate will be at the level that Greek society demands today. Prime Minister, you have run improvisations, selfishness and arrogant pandemic. And, unfortunately, you were not taught anything by both the black experience of Thessaloniki and the second wave. Then we haven't even had the mutations in Thessaloniki, I remind you. And since you like comparisons, you would see that recently the "BLOOMBERG" published tables, in which Greece is in the forty-three-three countries, while in twenty European countries it ranks third from the end. Last month we had the 20th place. I mean, we're 20 places down. This is even confirmed in the mortality index, for which we were in a very good position because of early measures and effective management of the first wave. Now, unfortunately, things are not like that, they have deteriorated. I don't want to talk about deaths and percentages. I shall, however, submit the relevant information to Parliament's minutes. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] And I do that because you mentioned it first. When we were called upon to manage the second and third waves, in which we were not judged who would take faster measures, but the operational situation and the possibility of each country, we were quite simply unable to respond. You have therefore failed to protect the health of citizens while you have had alternative proposals. You ignore them and insisted on your strategy that proved incorrect and ineffective. We are the only party that has taken responsibility and tabled a specific proposal for safe opening by regions since autumn, and we pointed out the deadlock of horizontal measures. I then said that the virus is treated only with targeted interventions, depending on the epidemiological data of each region, taking immediate and short-term measures per region. The citizens of the islands and other regions saw their local economies closed, while cases in their areas were zero. This has further increased the question and the climate of distrust. If you were to take advantage of our proposal, Greece would not have reached this deadlock today and, of course, the resistance of the citizens who have exceeded their limits would not have been so much tested. Starting March 2020, we had proposed moving forward with more tests and developing tracking mechanisms. You did the opposite. Traces in tests and poor design in the traceability and isolation of the virus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u9	How are we in Europe? How do you call it that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u10	You'll answer the dentistry. Starts March 2020...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u11	Please continue, Mrs. Gennamas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u12	Starting March 2020 I had proposed investing in primary health care, strengthening it, reaching with mobile workshops in the patient's homes. You chose not to move the mobile units forward. For a while you said you would respond. You let that go. At the beginning of March 2020, I had spoken about the value of open data in dealing with the pandemic and the building of credibility relationships between the state and the citizens. You have chosen to keep all the data unaccessable even by the Committee of Experts. Starting June 2020 and after the end of the first wave, I had pointed out the need to prepare for a possible autumn second wave, with redesign in public transport, in schools, in tracking mechanisms, in staff and logistics needs in the National Health System. You've done absolutely nothing. Ten months later, you are preparing to open up activities, with schools and media exactly as they were and when they were termed 'dispersion areas'. As far as the National Health System is concerned, you did not create timely IF beds. You didn't hire the necessary staff. You have also put vaccination in hospitals, creating unnecessary co-mortem and an additional burden on the National Health System. The situation today is tragic. We have intubated out of the ICU, deaths that are impounded outside of the ICU in the hallways, shortcomings in specialist doctors, shortcomings in nursing staff and technicians, minimal ambulances. We have an ambulance for a hundred and twenty thousand inhabitants in Attica, where according to European standards, we had to have one for every thirty thousand inhabitants. "Without the donation of the Stavros Niarchos Foundation, we would be naked," the workers tell us today. Oxygen is not enough in many hospitals in the country. Patients with severe illness are delayed in treatments, surgery, diagnostic tests with devastating results for their own lives. Throughout this course, your decisions have never been justified, and that is why they have not convinced the citizens. The more they have failed, the more restrictive and more stringent you have done and the more responsible the citizens. You have not monitored the implementation of the measures. There was no effective control, and you finally exhausted the patience of society and the endurance of the economy without result. You have also failed to support businesses and workers. Focus, retail trade, craftsmen emit dramatic s o s. Opening without support will lead to padlocks. Your measures were inadequate. You let the banks be unaccompanied to fund their good customers, who just increased their deposits. You carried the obligations, the debts due to the pandemic in 2022. That's right. These, however, are about 1.5 billion euros. All debts to taxpayers and funds amount to EUR 145 billion, Prime Minister. How will they be paid in such a crisis and recession? Small and medium-sized ones have consciously been abandoned in their fate. The liquidity didn't reach them. The five hundred thousand private sector workers who have been on a job suspension, for many months, cannot go beyond EUR 534, while their obligations are running at the same time. You are responsible for why you preferred this practice instead of the work subsidy programme that we proposed to you. Scientists, lawyers, especially young people feel that your announcements are a mockery. The three hundred and fifty thousand long -term unemployed were left without any cover. They tell us that they have been abandoned in a provocative way by the state. It is characteristic that seasonal workers in tourism who do not have the right to re-entry have not even been paid for the announced extraordinary aid for the first few months of 2021. You are arbitrarily suming up for misleading and impressing, financial interventions, suspensions of debts and leverages, resources that have not gone to those who really needed. So, with your policy, you're broadening inequality. The worst part is that your government officials instead of solving problems, learning the margarita. We open, we don't open. We're closing, we're not closing. On the way, the reality disguises all these statements. We have aalum without a precedent and, of course, there are no positive standards. At the first opportunity, from you to your ministers yourself, you are destroying the measures. You feel like you're above the law. You're not concerned with restrictions. Ladies and gentlemen, the road is still long. Vaccines are slowing together, and the long-lived immunity. The fact is that we are marginally below the average European level in the rate of vaccination. The first dose is twenty-thirds in twenty-seven. Let's talk about it right.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u13	The first dose?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u14	But that is not the problem, and I am not going to criticize you for that, because countries are marginally close to each other. That's not the point. There are other problems in relation to vaccination. Watch the target group of vaccinated animals. Greece has completed the vaccination of over eighty years and has just vaccinated 51.5% with the first dose. It is a very bad figure, and if you take into account that our country has one of the highest rates of over-estimates of Member States of the European Union, then the risk of death in absolute numbers is clearly increased. It certainly has a role that they were the vaccination centers away from the residences of all these people who were at a very high age and could hardly be moved. Similarly, Greece is also low in the rate of health vaccination with only 51.9% in the first dose and 45.6% in the second. What does that mean, practically? That the government failed in political communication, that is to say, failed to convince the citizens and health workers of the country about the usefulness of the vaccine. Rather, the money that has been given has been used more to bless the beards of the government than to better inform the citizens and ultimately to have a better effect on the rate of vaccinated. In particular, on the issue of health, you must find a solution immediately. Mr. Mitsotakis, it is clear that your situation has escaped and it is now time to change direction. Responding to the pandemic requires a serious national plan to protect the lives of the citizens, to keep society up and alive the economy, but also to prepare for the relaunch of the economy for recovery when we get out of this crisis. We have presented concrete proposals since the beginning of the pandemic. You didn't respond. Today we have reached us, at last, it is necessary to agree on the main lines of an effective plan. In this context, we insist that, above all, immediate support from the National Health System is needed, with the integration of all structures, public and private hospitals, their scientific staff and the necessary medical equipment. The private sector can no longer be covid-free. It's scandalous. And if they refuse, proceed to a direct order. Secondly, not in mixed hospitals, where possible. A non-covid hospital in each region to ensure the needs of the residents and the rest of the covid entirely. A corresponding design must also exist in Attica. Can't be the anesthesiologist who just invented an incident covid to give an anaesthesia to a woman born with caesarean. The problem inside the hospitals is huge. They go into emergency surgery - because that's all they're doing - and they're negative to the covid and coming out of the surgery and going to the room they're positive, they're surgeons and they're on their own, and the problems are huge with the least nursing staff. Thirdly, direct reinforcement of the staff of the National Health System. Direct recruitment of qualified doctors. There is a statement, Prime Minister, which ended at the beginning of March with hundreds of doctors who applied for, including many pathologists and pneumonologists and other necessary qualifications. Now hire them now, immediately, with two-month contracts and give the bonuses for the final intake. Similar notices exist in too many regional hospitals. Take advantage of them the same way. Where are you looking for the doctors all these months and you don't find them? I wonder. You have them in front of you. The question is: do you finally have the political will to do so? Intake directly to clinical and covid departments of specialist doctors - pneumonologists and anaesthetics - are responsible for rural services and recognition of this time as a rural medical establishment. If you have problems with each other, you can solve them at another time, not now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u15	We don't have any problems!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u16	Untie the other hour!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u17	Others have problems!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u18	Finally, let's hear it! Solve your problems outside this Chamber. You also get used to doing so publicly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u19	We're on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u20	So I was saying that there should be an immediate intake in a clinic - to take time, Mr President - and parts of covids of specialist doctors - pneumonologists and anaesthetics - who are responsible for a countryside service and acknowledgment of this time as a farm doctor. There is already a positive opinion from the ERCH of the specific proposal made by the Pulmonary Society for Pulmonologists, which has been submitted for ten days to the Ministry. Fourthly, an increase in the remuneration of doctors, a reform of the wages with substantial increases and special incentives for the region, which will make the ESS an attractive choice for qualified medical staff, a self-tax on newspapers, which must finally be paid. They have been unpaid since 2020. Fifthly, integration into the heavy and unhealthy health. Prime Minister, at the moment the system is operating thanks to their friendship and thanks to their souls that put them in their everyday lives. They're giving their souls. I'm told by incidents where nurses who work too many hours with covid incidents, they can't even get their uniforms out to get to the toilet, and others when they come out of the units and go out and take out the uniform, they faint. To these people you have refused to give the heavy and unhealthy. I, in fact, declare that I am ashamed as a Greek woman. Are you feeling well? I have tabled four amendments on this issue. At last, make it acceptable, give them the heavy and unhealthy! What else has to be done? Sixth, acceleration of vaccinations, strengthening of vaccination centres with volunteer private doctors. They're offered and you don't accept them. You say there are bureaucratic problems. Hey, untie them! There are people who are offered. Moreover, in the operational field vaccination Greece has lost more than six thousand four hundred doses, i.e. the loss of vaccines reached 0.4% according to the ECDC report. We need to try even more. Our aim is not to lose a single dose from now on. Safe opening: I told you before, we have been telling you for months to gradually and safely open the activities on the basis of the epidemiological characteristics of each region and after massive tests, but you have not done so. Now you're making the need for esteem. Choose the self-tests. In any case, there must be a check that the results have actually been made, at least in the functioning of the retail trade and, of course, when they are positive. As far as the self-tests are concerned, it is in no way possible to replace the organised operation of the PCRs and I am pleased that you have said so. It cannot be based on the opening of tourism and travel exclusively on self-tests, much more than on epidemiological surveillance and control of pandemics alone. I'm coming to school. It needs opening up but without agglomeration in the classes, even by rotating teaching and, of course, compulsory tests for students and teachers every week. Mr. Mosialos suggests twice a week. Let's listen to him once in a while! I cannot imagine, Prime Minister, that the schools will be opened up and that they will function exactly as they did before, just as they operated before the coronary in Greece. It's impressive. There hasn't been any change in a year! You have done absolutely nothing to keep the schools open, but safely for both students and teachers. Do it at last! How much more time does it have to spend? Our children are so many months out of schools and especially the children who are in the second and third grades. Primary memos won't have any memories, they won't have any of their classmates from these years. They're losing them, because we couldn't finally build a plan to make schools safe when they're open. You told us it didn't fit in school. Why did you shut it down later? In public transport, the crowd is keeping it well. A year later, nothing has happened in this area. The three hundred buses announced since summer have not been received so far. The Court of Auditors shall reject the supply contract. Hey, solve the problem! More buses and drivers and more routes are needed during peak metro hours, especially since the retail trade opens. And I'm coming back to the start of the economy at the opening of the stores. It must be combined with targeted support for small and medium-sized enterprises, because the risk of locking is visible. Reality now, a repayable advance with 70% of the amount and a direct adjustment of the debts to the public and insurance funds. We have proposed a hundred and twenty doses and a 30% haircut for those who are consistent with the payment of these doses. With regard to suspensions to the banks, suspension of instalments for six months after opening to the firms affected and the'supply' of instalments compulsory in the extrajudicial compromise. Suspension of first house auctions and bankruptcy law for 2021. As from 1 June, it shall cease any protection in the first place. We are the first to talk, Prime Minister, about a special focus support programme, which may have been hit more than many other sectors. Yesterday, obviously, under the pressure of today's debate, you took a first positive step towards supporting their liquidity, but - if this is left alone - it will still not be enough. It is necessary for at least six months after the opening of the grant of 100% insurance contributions with an employment clause in order to keep the firms upright and to preserve jobs. Tourism. From 1 May to begin the vaccination of workers in tourism, tests at all the gates of the country and the islands, at airports and ports. The aim is to make the islands and as many areas as possible covid free. The mayors of the tourist regions should play a role. VAT on accommodation and catering at 6%. Now make these services competitive, so that they don't get lost in 2021! Suspension of application of the increased VAT on the Aegean islands. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the President of the Change Movement is ringing.]] And I come to the Recovery Fund. Prime Minister, you are turning another national case into an exclusive issue of handling your government. However, the period of application exceeds the government's term of office and no one has given you a 'white check'. We will see all of this at the meeting in question, because we will not accept you coming and present us with a final statement. The very title of your project "Greece 2.0" prescribes the Greece of the two speeds that constantly deviate between them. However, I would like to refer specifically to the stifling of support for the National Health System. Here's what is foreseen in the program announced by Mr. Mitsotakis. A total of 317 million is expected to be provided for the renovation of a hundred twenty hospitals and 273 million for primary health care for infrastructure, for education, for the development of measures for chronic diseases, etc. These are the actions for the health system and, in fact, for years. This is how the government of Mr.Mitsotakis captures the priority given to the regeneration of the National Health System, which proved to be the support of the Greek people in this pandemic. As far as available resources are concerned, I would like to point out that the government has already been able to pre-finance certain expenditure, which in second year will be covered by the recovery fund. The Greek State continues to have a very large reserve, which adds liquidity to the borrowing at low interest rates, of course, Mr Mitsotakis, we are guaranteed by the decisions and support of the European Central Bank. Finally, you manage the resources of the NRP with unprecedented degrees of flexibility due to the pandemic. On the basis of the European Commission's figures, only 56% of the total expenditure of the programme has been committed by the end of 2020. So, with what I want to say, you have potential. Ladies and gentlemen, with our proposals and today we want to make a real contribution to the decisions taken these days and are decisive. They depend on thousands of lives. The course of the Greek economy depends, the fate of the workers, business and households, because we are at a very critical turning point. It is a national battle that you do not have the right to exploit for temporary impressions and party purposes. You don't even have the right to throw the ball at the platform, because when we get out in the clearing, the inequalities will have widened considerably. We are talking about disparities in economics with the few to have treasured the small and medium-sized and weak to be even more dependent on state support, with young people, women in the precarious professions turning even further and pushing into the poverty and unemployment zone. We are talking about inequality policies, with the voice of many being under-represented or not to be heard under tens of millions of euros of state propaganda, with "business" by "Maximus S.A." only for friends, with "blue" children who again break a record of appointments to the public and by autocracy. [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] We are talking about racial inequality, about women raising the burden of another crisis in the wallet, in the body and in their souls and inequality intergenerational, with the new generation rightly angry, targeted and exiled by its basic rights and goods, champion once again of unemployment in Europe, with less public education, without prospects for decent work, culture or entertainment, with thirty-five thousand retired people waiting, finally, for the digital revolution that you are engaged in, will give them the minimum of dignity that you deserve from this euphemist socialism. Our constant struggle from the very beginning of the pandemic, a struggle with responsibility and seriousness, is justified every day in citizens' consciences. As much as there is an attempt to squeeze the parade that left a footprint of social reforms, we are and remain the only credible alternative political force for progress and prosperity. Today we can make comparisons between the governments of the democratic party and our current integrated proposals, with their previous and current government and current attitude. So do what is necessary before it's too late and immerse us into a wave from which it will take us too many years to get out. We insist and are here with our proposals, with our programmes, to get together and lead all Greek society out of this test. Then we will have all the time and luxury to sharpen our political swords and disagree and rejoin war against each other. But now it is time for national battle and we are all judged by our attitude toward it. So make a decision, Prime Minister, if you can finally break up with the circumstances that require a genuine national agreement or if you will continue to be the Prime Minister of insufficiency, division and social injustice. It's up to you to make that decision. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u21	The turn is now Mr. Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Officer's Opposition and Chairman of the Radical Left- Progressive Alliance Parliamentary Group for his own speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. I see a great intolerance from the government benches today and from the seats of the Members of the Chamber of Deputies, an intolerance to criticism. The debate is also critical, not just monologues. No need for this intolerance. Allow me, then, to begin my intervention from what I believe we all understand or should understand. We have an extraordinary treaty, a dramatic treaty. In a treaty such as this, it is not possible for our debate in this House to have a sterile character of confrontation. I think, Mr Mitsotakis, that in all the debates - you said ten times, I do not think ten, but many times in this Chamber we gathered together to talk about the development of the pandemic - opposition parties as a whole have shown this empathy of critical reality and their positions and their interventions with hard criticism, yes, but with proposals at all times. And of course now, at this critical and difficult time, we need to make an effort to find a peaceful solution, we say, even in 'and five'. And you will allow me to tell you in two directions. The first thing to do is to get rid of the country with the fewest possible losses from this pandemic and economic crisis. The second direction, to see what way we should take, not tomorrow, from yesterday, but at any rate now, to leave behind the difficult years and give a new hope and perspective to the world of work and creation, I would say to young people first. Let me just say it simply to talk about it, to propose, to disagree, but all this with respect for the truth, with respect for the needs of the people, with respect for the thousands of dead, the more than eight thousand dead, and those who are currently being severely tested in the suffocating hospitals, with respect for the agony for today and tomorrow of all our fellow citizens - and they are hundreds of thousands - see their income depleted and threatened in the anguish of all those seeking a way out for their personal and family dead ends. I have the feeling, Prime Minister, that you have once again come here to present us with a'success story'. Do you remember the expression of Mr Samaras, when the country went all the way round the rocks, the indicators said the backwards, people's optimism was plunged and the padlocks were filled with small and medium-sized enterprises? 'Success story' told us. And you here are a'success story'. I will not doubt that I am the last person to say that society, the country, is not in need of optimism, a new optimism. However, this optimism is not going to be created by rhetorics, proclaims, communal and television ornamental, and how rather with senseless confrontations, with settling trials, prosecutions of your own political opponents, divisive choices, police repression and arbitrary and propaganda storms. And can I tell you something? All this is getting bored by the average citizen who is going through extremely difficult times after a year. It's a deep frustration. The reality is too hard to play communication games and play with the nerves and strengths of Greek society. The average citizen, young people today, need to trust us - I say to the first of all the politicians, all the political forces - first of all to understand them, respect them and, of course, to act coordinatedly and effectively on their problems. To put aside - if you want - even adequate differences, if that is for the benefit of society, if that is for the benefit of the country, if that is for the benefit of the people around us. It is regrettable in the circumstances of this tragedy that those who have the greatest responsibility objectively, the Prime Minister above all and the government - so it happens in every democracy - I will not say insufficient - will judge this - that the Greek people - appear - that is what disturbs me - do not understand anything, do not respect the truth, do not respect the people who are suffering and do not be able to act effectively with coordination between you in the government, with fundamental effectiveness, with a plan and determination, as the exceptional circumstances require. It is sad that it has been happening lately. On the one hand, society, workers, small and medium-sized enterprises, the people of the frontline, the real society, the real world looking for solutions - not the parties of counter-population - and on the other Mr Mitsotakis and all those who surround it, the wonderful world - I would say - Mr Mitsotakis and the government, where everything is well. And evil, deaths, padlocks, anxiety and insecurity appear about as a natural development in the context of pandemic. Or worse, with a macabre accounting, with an alchemy macabre means of terms and creative accounting appear as idyllic what we are living today. Why? Because we are - it says - better than the other countries. Isn't that what it's called? It is possible to enter such comparisons and say: “Yes, but we are much worse than other countries. We may be much better than some countries, but many others we are much worse." Are we going to make this comparison here? Is it possible that people die and fight but the numbers prosper in this country? And that, unfortunately, is not as funny as it might have been in some other cases. Because, you know, this exacerbates the crisis, exacerbates fear, exacerbates insecurity, because in this way you are destroying your own political capital, but I will obviously not pretend that we are interested in it, but you are mainly destroying the capital of life that is necessary for the country to overcome such a dramatic crisis. What you have achieved at, very speed, with geometric progress to destroy, while being built in the first period of pandemic, is the magical word trust, citizens' trust, the critical word to face a government, a state crisis like today. What confidence do you have, Mr Mitsotakis, when citizens are watching a dance of contradictions, of management failure and of disobedience? What confidence, when they see you sharing smiles and assurances that the country is just before the launch, that in a magical way you will take us as Alice in the country of miracles, from Greece, from cache, recession and thousands of deaths and from hospitals that sink in Greece - how did you say so - of '2.0'? Greece of 2.0! What trust when six months are you saying the same thing and the same? You said the same thing at the end of October when we were a country that, in time, had lost six hundred lives in eight months. You were saying the same thing. We were right to tell you then that we had collectively achieved a great success. The whole opposition in the first phase. No, we just admitted it, but we confirmed it. You said the same thing. You say the same now, five months later. In these five months seven and a half thousand lives have been lost. Six hundred fellow men in the first eight months, seven and a half thousand after five months and you say the same. Even five months to which we are applying one of the hardest lockdowns in Europe. What confidence should citizens have when we are first in Europe in the last week at a rate of death and also cases? We are being followed by countries such as France, Spain and Belgium. You'll say it's the photo of the moment. Today we are talking in Parliament. We are not talking five months ago about putting on the same tape and saying the same words. We're talking today. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] Also, in the last week, there have been twenty positions in the monthly resilience index presented by the "BLOOMBERG" which ranks us in the forty-five-three countries. We are not in October last year or at other times that you presented to us this ECDC table that had Greece yellow. That painting you've always presented to us. We're here where Greece is red. Not yet because SYRIZA won the election. That's the picture. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] That's the picture. And I wonder if you're conscious of this image when you come here and the commuters tell you to constantly put on the same tape: "We've worked, we've succeeded, we're the best." And in this case, what confidence is needed when a minimum level of understanding is required at this time? When the unity of society is required for the salvation of our fellow people, you prefer the division, the indictment of the citizen, the persecution of your political opponents and police repression, changing with your choices with dangerous - let me express - folly, the despair of the citizens in rage. I am sorry, ladies and gentlemen of the government, but your complacentness, the administrative incompetence of your famous state of service, your idealism, your hostility towards your opponents, your hostility to the idea of the National Health System and the Social State, your recourse to violence of words and works, have made you a multiplier of the crisis we live in. Obviously, you are not responsible for the crisis. You did not bring her, but you are a multiplier of this crisis. Every day you prepare the next one's mistake. Tragic mistakes in the strategy. On a thousand cases, Lockdown. Four and a half thousand cases, opening up the business. What can the average citizen understand? Tragically depreciating the National Health System. A thousand two hundred IF beds keep telling us you created. Of the six hundred full beds in the ITH, we have fenced, with dozens of tubed, over a hundred weeks ago outside intensive care units to wait on the list and every day many of them die, lose their lives. And instead of doing something, you go out and tell us it's normal what's going on, it's normal that 20% dies out of the ICU. Ilarotraction and a sign of dangerous, fatal, I could say, sloppy, even in the messages you broadcast every day. See the image of the government on a daily basis, TV windows and radio stations. One Minister comes out and says something, another Minister comes out after half an hour and says something else, one minister goes out and says "open up", another Minister goes out and says "to God, we close". This is happening on a lasting basis. Same with the vaccines. Because I saw that you were reluctant when Mrs. Gennamas criticised you. On November 18, the Minister for Health, Mr. Kikilias, said that two million citizens will be vaccinated a month. Okay, it was early, Mr. Kikilia. You're right. I believe you. It was early, you didn't have the picture. On January 15th, Mr. Mitsotakis came here to make another poaching. Mr. Mitsotakis in his news report to Mr. Hadjikolaou - mot a mot your words, Mr. Mitsotakis - said on 12 January: "We will have in the first quarter about the four million instalments by the end of March. So we can be vaccinated near our two million fellow citizens." by the end of March. Here you go. That's what you said. And you came here today to play numbers. While you said expressly and unequivocally then 'four million doses, two million fellow citizens fully vaccinated', you tell us today that 'we have only fallen out of three hundred thousand vaccinations', because you have forgotten our 'four million fellow citizens', you are confusing the first with the second dose together and you tell us that you had told us about two million doses and not for citizens who will be fully vaccinated and we are in one million seven hundred thousand. What's the truth? That you were targeting our two million fellow citizens, vaccinated with two doses only six hundred and four thousand of our fellow citizens and around one million seven hundred in total with one and two doses. And she tells you that as far as vaccination is concerned, we are in the twenty-fifth place in Europe. And you yell here, along with your sister. You're making a fuss. It's not like that, we're lying. Or familyly you don’t know what happens to you either your partners tell you or in any case see the evidence. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I put it in the Minutes, along with the document on the course of vaccination. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] The same and worse you do with the restraining measures. First you brought us the smart measures. You took the traffic ban at 6 o'clock this afternoon on weekends, resulting in people conspiring in supermarkets and no one can go for a ride on Saturday or Sunday afternoon. You banned sport in a adjoining municipality, then you said you were allowed to walk to a municipality next door, but he eats a fine if he goes by car. Then you told us that in the end smart measures were not so smart but they were foolish and you allowed the popular movement. But one is not allowed to shop from supermarkets longer than two miles [2 km]. I'm sorry, have you realised that the average citizen today doesn't know exactly what's going on? Ask a new man out. What's the matter? The world doesn't know! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How much are you going to drive us crazy? And who's gonna take you seriously with this management? And how can we not lead to New Smyrna situations when you're trying to impose the inability and the mess what you've created with police violence? How do you convince who? At first - remember - you said that the virus is not stuck in schools, young children are not stuck. He was stuck later, and you closed them. Today I don't know what's going on. At first you were constantly saying that it does not fit into public transport. But then he was stuck, and you rushed to take emergency ionists. Now Mr Karamanlis, who canceled our own ready-to-date tender for new buses - and I do not know if that is the reason why the Secretary-General of the Ministry of Transport has kicked out of there - is rushing to convince us that it does not fit. It doesn't stick, guys, to closed buses or to the subways that the world is conspiring. Outside if he's going to sit down and have a cup of coffee, he's sticking to the focus. You're doing the same thing with the economy. The combination of the idea of prediction and early intervention that characterize you has proved disastrous. At first the deposit was all repayable, then half of it returned, now it can be all of it. I wish! We told you in November 'give a subsidy to the focus'. You were saying no. Now you've decided to give. Well done, we'll tell you. What, though, changed so late in what we told you? Of course, we had tabled a question, a timely question by the Finance Department, Mr Haritsis, early November and asked you to grant a subsidy, because they would not be re-initiated without a subsidy for the people only with the returnee. Then you refused, saying you didn't have to. Indeed, the relevant Minister for Government Development - so he likes to be called - Mr. Georgiadis stayed and said uncharacterised, he stayed and beat people, so they want to take the keys to his business. So it's been five months and you've realised there's no other way. The point is, however, that you are so bulky that even some self-evident measures are taken with great delay and this so-called'very little, too late' is true. You shared promises to open the market on Christmas. The small and medium-sized ones were charged with merchandise, they were left with debts. Now you are announcing the opening of the market for Easter or after Easter, without first knowing, if you will, and secondly, what assurance you give that these people will not be closed down again in a short time. I hear a voice of agony, as I was hearing until yesterday, from the retailers who couldn't understand why in their shops anyway, at the time of normality, one - the customer entered and sometimes with their rifle, they were chasing and they were closed. Now I hear from businesspeople of the focus, who said they celebrate today, better to say never to open us up. Because you and yourself are saying that people must finally come out of their homes, because we have been wrong for so long, because the virus was transmitted into their homes, and now that the weather is opening, they must come out of their homes. But the question is to get out and go where? Since they can't get out and go sit in an open space with distances, with meters...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u23	With the tables outside.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u24	It was a very nice album of Savvopoulos "The tables outside", to listen to him. It was a really nice album to listen to.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u25	Now that's what you're suggesting?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u26	What I suggest and what I say, Mr Mitsotakis, is that you don't know where you're going and where you are. That's the simple truth. And the average citizen fails to understand what you say to him and that you no longer inspire any confidence. That's what I'm saying. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The most worrying thing, however, is that this management failure is now coming at the most critical moment that we can actually make the critical shift towards normality by having a weapon, which we did not have until December, the vaccines. I want to be fair to that. It is not just your responsibility for the shortcomings in vaccines, it is a great failure of the European Union. After three months you admitted it, too today. I would say that it is one of the greatest failures of the European Union since its establishment, which has based all its strategy on the business plan a few pharmaceutical companies. Your responsibility, Mr Mitsotakis, is that here you have also been treated as an observer, a shareholder, you have not sought solutions, but you have also expected your turn to get something from the limited, as proved, pie. I, when early January I visited the President of the Republic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u27	Something...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u28	I'll tell you what we got now, but don't interrupt me. Yes, something, my mayor, my admiral, is that at this time, only six hundred thousand fellow citizens have been vaccinated, if they were vaccinated, as in other countries - I will show you evidence - the double of them, we would not have seventy people to die in hospitals, we would have under thirty. We'd save forty people a day. That's critical, don't you understand, or do you do that you don't understand? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] When I visited the President of the Republic at the beginning of January, I tabled a proposal with two legs. The first and strong political part was the proposal made by your distinguished professor and interlocutor, Mr Mosialos, who had mentioned the patents and the release of vaccine production that the need is imperative. I have therefore asked you to take initiatives in Europe and if they are not successful - and this is the second part - to seek alternative markets for vaccines. The critical is not where we have the vaccines, the crucial is to have this tool to protect our population. I asked for a meeting of political leaders. Instead of a meeting and consultation, you chose a controversy in this House and you came here to scoff at my proposals. Today that not only Europe, but the whole planet is trying to find ways to increase the access of states to vaccines, what exactly do you say and, above all, what exactly are you doing? Do you have anything to learn from the fact that other countries than the European Union, the United Kingdom, Israel, Serbia - we have a joke - are inoculated by foreign citizens? They're going for a weekend in Belgrade to be vaccinated. Israel has reached 60%, the United Kingdom at a rate of 45.53%, but I see other countries, within the European Union, who have sought alternative sources, far higher than us. So how many people could we have saved if from the beginning of the year, instead of coming here to mock me, did you accept the invitation to sit at a table and talk about this crucial issue and seek solutions? I am presenting in the Minutes the related course of the vaccinations. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] But what you did was mock me and make a statement that we cannot be so anti-European, that we are discussing alternative sources when Germany itself did so first.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u29	What did he do?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u30	What did he do first? You'll be looking for it. He prosecuted from PFIZER, that's what he did. But in any case, look for it and you will find it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u31	Where does that come from?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u32	What do you say to Greek citizens right now? There's nothing I can do, you say.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u33	That is why he is behind us, because he bought from PFIZER.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u34	Come see which countries are in front of us in the European Union, you know? Austria is in front of us? Is Hungary in front of us? It is. Why is it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u35	Where's Germany?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u36	Follow Germany and well, not just her bad ones. Germany has given 70% of the businessmen of catering to the holiday season, not 7% as you have given today! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So follow Germany, which has the deepest responsibility for this upheaval in the European Union today, the deepest responsibility Mrs Von Der Lyen has. Instead of going out and saying this clearly, you come here and say that Europe did not do so very well. In any case, Mr President, I will take the time left by the speeches and the holidays.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u37	Mr President, the previous speakers have had a relative success. I'm sure you'll be successful in cutting it, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u38	At the moment, however, ladies and gentlemen, the crucial question for most people is one. Why, I repeat, this House must be controversy, criticism, but in this regard the crucial must be one: can something be done to change this sad image, even in five and even more? We say, yes, it can. The first is to ensure that the necessary doses of vaccines are immediately and in all possible ways and to draw up a plan for the vaccination of these fellow citizens, of workers called international essential workers. Just to say, vaccination must finally be opened to the active population. And I ask: will we be able to have a sustainable opening of the economy - in terms of health I say, not economic - if the workers in the supermarket are not vaccinated, if the workers who come in contact with hundreds of people every day, if the couriers who enter our home are not vaccinated, if the public transport workers are not vaccinated, if the teachers, teachers, teachers, teachers, who will now open our schools and take our children, are not vaccinated if the tourism workers are not vaccinated? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How are we talking about a safe opening and an immunity zone if these categories of workers on the front line are not vaccinated to reinitiate the economy? So is the vulnerable groups of the population with chronic illness. He called it too early - to credit it - the KINAL. With great slowness, you have proceeded to open the platform for some of them, but because even today we are not all covered, such as cancer patients, diabetics, heart disease. I am presenting for the Minutes which categories of chronic diseases today do not have access to vaccination. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] We should not go with age criteria here. They are vulnerable groups, they are not without the protection of our older fellow citizens, but they must also be taken care of immediately. And I say again, it has to be done with a plan and a priority, not by the indisposed vaccines, not by the way, and exceptionally, as usual. And they're vaccinated by what I'm learning in all the prefectures, the local strains of the New Democracy from undisposed vaccines.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u39	I haven't been vaccinated yet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u40	You're honored. Tell this to your Dodecanese District Director who has rushed to be vaccinated and is still a member of the New Democracy and your mayors. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The second thing we need to do is that there must finally be serious epidemiological surveillance and reliable data. The way is one: Mass molecular tests, with the responsibility of EGE, on a large scale. Monday and Friday we checked the large production units that drag hundreds of workers daily. So is in schools. They can't open as they've closed. Made a Monday and a Friday test with ETA units. For self-tests now. You said it yourself that it is of a complementary nature. But you cannot, at the same time as you say yourself that it is complementary, say that it is the key. It has a contradiction with what you're saying. In a recent report on 17 March, the ECDC, the European Infection Control Centre, expresses its strong scepticism about the possibility of these tests being a key option for the covid. I'm filing that, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u41	Mr President, I am simply telling you that you have exceeded the Prime Minister's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u42	I need two more minutes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u43	We said to keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u44	All right, thirty-six minutes the Prime Minister spoke.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u45	It's worth it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u46	Now would you count with the scavenger a year, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u47	It is worth it, Mr President, to keep it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u48	It's worth it, yeah, but don't interrupt me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u49	I mean, I can't make any recommendations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u50	At least don't interrupt me on his chariot. Discontinue me when I make a break, because you're like the referee who whistles foul when the team goes to grow. He's not a fair referee. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I shall conclude, Mr President, with two other points. The third thing you need to do is finally stop the tricks with private clinics. Charge means direct disposal of the necessary units in the national effort to save lives. It doesn't mean tying incidents, it doesn't mean gifts, nor, of course, it means swinging the finger on the neighborhood doctor, I'm giving him the lion, but I'm doing the duck to the owners of the big groups of private care. And fourthly - and I conclude with this, because I will be able to place myself on the issues of the economy in my second speech - which you must do at last is to strengthen the National Health System. At last, hire the tenants of the competitions. You're here to order two hundred doctors. A year now, two hundred doctors couldn't hire you? And they are entrepreneurs in contests, which you, too, have "trained". Finally, stop playing with the numbers and don't just think about how to get rid of these people who are constantly in the front line, who fight the front line, who save lives, and you have not given - hypocritical applause - neither heavy and unhealthy, nor an elementary increase in their pay. But you also made redundancies, such as in San Savvas, to those who come out to denounce administrative interventions. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] We have tabled four essential proposals to change the picture in the face of pandemic. We will also present you with a number of suggestions in the economy to the second opportunity. The crucial thing, however, is that, while we do not see the reality, the country cannot go forward and the Greek people cannot expect much from such a government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u51	Immediately afterwards, Mr. Dimitrios Koutsoubas, the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Communist Party of Greece, has a turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u52	Today is the World Awareness Day. Before I came here, I had a meeting with the Hellenic Civil Protection Company. We are also given the opportunity to point out from the Step of the House that today a globally developed network of public structures for early diagnosis and early intervention is needed, with adequate, qualified staff, with modern equipment for autistic children, as is required and the development of a public education and rehabilitation system in the prospect of equal integration of children in society and production. Gentlemen of the Government, gentlemen of the opposition parties, may the voice of the families facing the autism be heard, even on this day, more widely. They know better than we all know what must be done. Ladies and gentlemen, about a year ago, on April 7, 2020, on World Health Day, hospital doctors - heroes, you told them, and you applauded them - with their movement outside the hospital gates, they broke the silence you wanted to impose and claimed measures to protect the health of the people. What were they asking for? The self-evident. Mass recruitment of permanent doctors, nurses, other health workers, full unconditional qualification of beds, clinics, beds, laboratory equipment and private sector staff and integration into a state plan to deal with the pandemic. One year after the public hospitals, especially in Attica, have turned into covid hospitals, the ICUs are full, dozens permeated are out of the ICU - the numbers have already been told - with what this may mean for their lives. You, of course, appall us once again with figures to show us that you have done better than the other countries of the European Union and the rest of the world. We'll tell you one more time. We are not concerned with this macabre statistic, these meaningless comparisons. In all the countries of the European Union, your models collapsed like paper towers. The sad state of public health systems has emerged everywhere. Everywhere as a priority for the governments, there has been protection of the profitability of large enterprises. Everywhere workers were unprotected at the mercy of sickness and crisis. And the list doesn't end. So cut these comparisons. They have no meaning, no meaning at all. All they may offer may be to maintain a bilateral again meaningless confrontation between you and SYRIZA, mostly, with KINAL asthma in close proximity. They are all those who are once again trying to sell - you see - the 'false' of the progressive governments, doing that they do not see that the so-called progressive governments like Spain and Portugal - in order not to forget that - committed and committed the same crimes at the expense of their peoples. One year now, your choices confirm that your criterion is not the need to protect the health, as a whole, the needs of the people, but the needs of the capitalist economy, that is, the rotten system you are serving. Under this perspective, one can find the answers to the questions that are tormenting him, questions relentless to deal with your pandemic by your Government, which is not very different from the management of other urban governments. "Soi the kingdom goes," says our people. Why, for example, your government is being driven into multiple refluxes, now a year into this alalum, it opens it - close, with the lockdown on the lockdown? It asks the simple world: How can it with over three thousand cases every day open up activities that have been closed with much less? The needs of the economy impose on you the gradual - as you say - openness and not because the pain has caught you over whether the world is tired, which is indeed tired, but not just from the measures, but from the old ages, the contradictions, the hypocrisy of your policy. You've booked the world five months in his homes. Kids do their backs on the screens. Schools, universities, IEK, professional schools all closed. A large part of the workers continued to go to work properly, another also found behind a screen without beginning, middle and end at work and yet another one is on parole, unemployment, also with inadequate support. You closed the majority of the poor professionals, the small businessmen, while all the industrial areas are working in the full. You've booked parks, sports areas, cultures, every activity that could by means of security measures break a little bit of the difficult situation we're all going through. You even sent police officers to beat our people unjustly in the name of the pandemic again. The spread of the coronary certainly did not stop. We're on the edge of the cliff now. The people who were disciplined in measure, even though they saw that they weren't so smart, are now getting out of their clothes. In the main areas of virus dispersion you have taken no substantial measures. Cases are increasing, because in large workplaces the immunity of the herd is applied under the responsibility of the State and the great employer. The cases are increasing, because buses have become a koruna - buses, the metro - metro - metro - and in the means of transport you have done nothing for more frequent routes so that passengers can dilute. Cases are increasing because there is no organised, effective traceability of cases. Now you are proposing the self-diagnosis, which will already be voluntarily stated again in the context of the notorious individual responsibility. Mercy! Now you are preparing the opening of tourism with the so-called rubber protocols, protocols cut and stitched to the measures of airlines, large tourist companies. And don't tell us again about the vaccination certificate, because you know very well that vaccination protects the vaccinated and not everyone else. But why is your Government delaying and not ensuring access to all safe vaccines for the population, as the JRC said, so that vaccination of the population can progress more quickly? We have arrived in April and only six hundred thousand have been vaccinated properly, that is, with the second dose, so that they are fully covered. Unfortunately, the need for mass vaccination has stumbled on your own responsibility in the European Union's commitments, in the bazaars and in the competitions between pharmaceutical groups and the various capitalist states. Given the delays in vaccinations, the only way to deal with the spread of pandemic is to shield the public health system, the order of the private sector and measures on all over-transmission sites. Why, then, did your Government not order the private health sector? A year before the request to order some might sound too much. Today there are many who consider it essential, because now the crucial thing is to save human lives. "Funny things that are heard about requisitions without compensation," the Minister of Health told us. Except when we talk about people's health, about the need to save lives, we don't joke, gentlemen. Like you, you are not joking, of course, when it comes to the profits of private groups in health. Lastly, because you understand that the margins have fallen, the excuses have come to an end, you began talking about a so - called National Health System, which, as you say, includes public hospitals, private hospitals and military services. You're slapping it all together under the umbrella of the nation to make the private sector oil, who even now that people are dying outside of the ICU does gold jobs. You tell us that the health system is public and national. However, brain cases requiring thrombolysis and so far went to the “Red Cross”, which is no longer on-call, are referred to the respective modern thrombolysis unit of “Metropolitan”. The cardiological incidents that require immediate hospital surgery and arrive at the “Advanced” on-call, now that the hospital’s heart surgery has been closed and has been converted into a clinical covid, where are they going? We refer to a clinic with seventy - eighty surgery a month, which serves all of southern Greece. The Endocrinology Department of Alexandra Hospital accepted thirty patients daily with diabetes mellitus, and now accepts only six. Can you tell us which private hospital these patients belonging to vulnerable groups are referred to? Do you want to tell us which private hospital, since the “Red Cross” was converted into covid, will the hundred and fifty patients with multiple sclerosis who stopped their treatments at the “Red Cross”? So leave these national systems to hide that public hospitals have "flyed", while private majesties rent you beds with the uninjurious. In fact, you have doubled this amount in the pandemic with an amendment that you have voted on. Why didn't your Government proceed to massive health recruitment? Why did he leave primary health care in this mess? Only to see the worrying evidence of the reduction of common, simple vaccinations in our children, for which pediatricians are belling, can one understand the downside of primary health. So where do we get there? Shall we see diseases that have been eradicated again in the 21st century? Why did you let the public health system become a system of disease? Every three minutes and a little announce the conversion of a large hospital exclusively to a covid hospital. Yesterday was the series of “Thriasios”, a hospital covering the wider area of Western Attica and Piraeus with large industrial zones. Do you know what the result is? The development of a new parallel epidemic, which concerns the exclusion for one year of other patients with other severe illnesses from surgery, treatments, various diagnostic tests. Not even outside public hospitals can all these patients go through anymore. And you insist that the public system can stand. The strengths of the large public hospitals describes them in an open letter by a qualified surgeon at the "Juneo" Hospital, one of the dozens even volunteers in the covid departments shortly after the Minister of Health's visit to the hospital. After describing what it means to the five hundred thousand inhabitants of Piraeus the fact that "Juneo" operates with only two operating rooms even in the days of general on-call, it speaks of the situation in the covid departments. I'm reading you from his open letter: "Numbers disintegrated by the double shift in the morning - night, carried without any training from each department, are literally trying to gather uncomfortables. Next to them the skilled, curators II, all kinds of specialties - neurologists, surgeons, gastroenterists, others - count endless on-call hours, to fill gaps in qualified colleagues. The most tragic performances, of course, remain the ones in the common chambers with portable respirators,"a spectacle in which he wishes you, gentlemen of the government, not to happen and see your own man. "Actually," he writes, "the inability to adjust the inner tubed with the grief media, and he should be really awake and tied to his hands, in order not to pull the tracheal tube, is a condition that I wish no one would live. Four tubed in a common chamber measured "Juneo" at the time of the Minister's visit, adding to dozens of others in Attica within this list of shame. The majority of the "June" precedents left the last breath without having the opportunity for intensive treatment. One of them was expected to be a bed for over ten days and was sixty-eight years old.’ And the letter concludes: "Three miles from "June" lies the private magma, all known, where the sick people in "June" are on payment are not provided for in the operating room, where the covid tests are carried out for inert pay, where the world in "Juneo" does not provide for mass control, where teachers are resident - members of the Committee of Infections along with the infrastructures and beds of ITH suitable for the hospitalization of patients covid. For these "Juneo" patients, however, one of the hundred and fifty covid beds is provided with oxygen inadequate and qualified one year and a specialist to treat him. His anguish is typical. He writes: "What else must be done to finally check private health sizes, without "yes, but", without the gold payment, which only reminiscent of? What else must be done to finally serve public hospitals with the staff in need, permanently qualified, with decent conditions and a reward?' We do not expect you to respond substantially to this scream of agony, to the doctor’s key questions. Compass for all your choices, as for the choices of all governments before you, it was, it is, and will be, the service of the economy of the few, the business colleges. That is why you incriminate the sick, you are chasing the so-called unconscious citizens, you have renounced individual responsibility, as you have done now with the self-tests. Instead of serving health centers, regional medical services, mobile health units to perform the tests, record the result, but also give instructions as appropriate, re-fly the ball to the people, individual responsibility. However, the treatment of the pandemic cannot be done without a state-owned epidemiological record and supervision. That's why you took advantage of the pandemic, to pass many anti-grass measures, to strengthen the arsenal of suppression, authoritarianism. So, what were you waiting for? Did you expect that you would pass laws against the people, workers and workers, that the Greek people would be silent, that they would not react, that they would not mobilize and that they would not have claimed? And this 'caramel', with the concentrations that are supposedly responsible for increasing the cases, has now been reduced. No one believes it. You have now discovered the increased cases in Nea Smyrna to incriminate the thousands who were protesting against the escalation of state repression. So tell us: for the other regions, such as the western Attica and the Piraeus that are boiling from the coronary, what is the fault of it? As far as we know, there has not been any great - almost anything at all - gatherings. There your state has taken no protective measures at the large workplaces, at the factories. It suits you to overcome criminal responsibilities in the management of the pandemic itself. However, the consequences of the pandemic management are all paid for, and professionals, so that you can then appear as saviors, as those who support them with some loans and some subsidies, just so that they do not go bankrupt. Of course, that's half the truth. The other half, you're hiding her. How did the professionals get to the current situation? Is it solely the appearance of the pandemic, or is it the policies you have implemented? As a result of these policies, the extensive restriction measures you took in commerce, the focus, elsewhere, led to thousands of self-employed persons in despair. At the same time, of course, you proved extremely flexible in the "block" of the operating protocols of large enterprises, in the opening of tourism, in air transport, in supermarkets, and in practice in 'bombs' health. In relation to the financial support measures that you have taken, however, you cannot hide their limited effectiveness, because, firstly, they are horizontal measures, designed, in particular, to serve the needs of larger or more dynamic enterprises that can currently face liquidity problems, but tomorrow, in normality, they will continue to achieve increased turnovers. On the contrary, the smaller ones do not just have a liquidity problem, but also a survival problem. Halfway through the repayable advance, for those who take it, disappear in the eye, in their "current" obligations. Even the subsidy programme you announced to relaunch the focus, under pressure from the reactions themselves and the major suffocating needs of the industry, a sector that has been closed for more than seven months, will not erase the damages of the previous months or the accumulated debts of the next few months. This is where you're judging. Refuse to give monthly allowances to those affected with lower incomes, a measure which could also work as a safety net, at least to ensure daily family needs. Secondly, the measures themselves - and you know that very well - are a disposable one. Along with the end of the restrictions, the next day begins the gullet. The tax and insurance obligations that have been suspended will be regulated and will be added to the previous regulations and all this will be in very low economic and high competition conditions. And here you refuse to take some more permanent measures that could be beneficial, such as reintroducing the self-employed to tax, reducing their taxation and, above all, eradicating an important part of the debts, old and young, that drown them. All these measures, which could provide substantial relief to the hundreds of thousands of micro-enterprises, which you are already saying you are tired of, are included in the JRC's proposal for a law, which you refuse to implement in the name of the resurrects of the economy. Nothing, of course, prevents you from paying billions of euros for the plans of a handful of groups to ensure that they are profitable, because the so-called economic endurance is determined by the interests and gains of capitalist enterprises and not by the real needs of workers and self-employed. Now, indeed, "wrap a new suit" to the people who listen to the name "National Recovery Plan". The Recovery Fund, which will finance the project "Greece 2.0" is neither a money tree nor a philosopher, nor is any one entitled to present it in this way, neither the Prime Minister nor the Chief of Officership nor any of his defenders. This is a recovery fund which will be the new chain for the people of Europe in the coming years. We will not suit you with criticisms, such as those made by the other parties about whether you are dialogued, how much this dialogue is, if you wish to become acquainted with them, which, of course, is meant to 'joint with the royal is watered and the pot'. The very recovery you are talking about is hostile to the people, because it is only about some groups. The fund has already been paid by the people of Europe, and in terms of disbursement of sums each time it is the Greek people to pay again, by implementing new measures, of what the European Union has already decided together with the national governments. Does the procedure, gentlemen of the New Democracy, gentlemen of SYRIZA, KINAL, of Mera25? Because it reminds the people. It reminds him of memoirs. That is why you should also say this here, 'Memorandum 5.0'. The consequences for the people are confessed to the words of the National Recovery Plan. The extroverted competitive model is the model of clay feet that broke during the pandemic period. What does it mean, for example, to form a tax system which is development-friendly? It only means new tax exemptions and privileges to large business groups, yes, other new tax burdens to employees, self-employed and small entrepreneurs. You say the National Recovery Plan will create permanent and quality jobs. Who are you kidding? The growth and profitability of capital require - a common secret - that is, the whole world knows - cheap labour force, a reduction in wages, other rights. Everything else you say is a story for young children. The forecasts for two hundred thousand jobs are at least precarious, while whatever jobs are created will only cover a very small part of unemployment. Who will pay the state support for the green investment of the groups, for example? Who will pay the expensive electricity 'green' current and the 'green' indirect taxes? It's a rhetorical question. The government is looking for consent. He knows where to find them. A willingness to "moratorium" will be found in the Civic Response. After all, SYRIZA himself - Mr. Tsipras with his presence here proved this - but he can also find the other parties that hailed the Recovery Fund. In the People's Movement, however, in the People's Movement, the break with the established concepts you refer to, Mr Mitsotakis, is about the abolition of eight hours, about the unpaid overtime, about the shrinking of trade union rights, so as not to put an obstacle to the appetites of the bosses, it is about privatising insurance. We heard you say about health investments. They only rub their hands. Now they have set up a large "fascist", devouring in the pandemic and preparing them new "glades" with the labors of the world. The people do need a break, a break with the strategy of big capital, a break first and foremost with the strategy of the European Union, the ruling class and the political parties that serve them all. The interest of the Greek people is in the struggle for another, different development path, focusing on its own goals for life with modern rights. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. And after preparing the Step, next speaker is Mr. Kyriakos Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u54	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to begin by responding to Mr Chipras, who is certainly not here. Mr. Tsipras, don't look for a solution! I say this because he talked to us about finding a solution. The solution is here and is called "Greek Solution" and was seen by your speech. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You have copied exactly, Mr Tsipras - even late, of course - what the Greek Solution said. If you take what we said months ago, you said exactly the same. We had a bell for Germany too, weird! Mr. Tsipras and Mr. Mitsotakis were struggling about how good or bad Germany is. Let them know that Germany is neither good nor bad, Germany is a state that does its job and does well. It looks at its own interests and not the European one. And I have to tell you, too, that Germany - very well said Mr Tsipras, I said this here first again - gives 70% of the turnover to a closed shop in a closed business. You as a New Democracy fly spices in the air, waiting to tell you and thank you. Of course, when I was saying we were running a factory in September for Sputnik, some of the New Democracy were laughing. Serbia does it and ends in September - October, it will produce vaccines. I told you 'we can, run, do it', you didn't do it. So if you heard the Greek Solution, you would have found the solutions, Prime Minister, that you are not here. It's okay, ordinary story all political leaders leave when they talk, because they speak only of their party audience and not of all Greeks. We will now go to the point, I will answer the Greek Prime Minister. Prime Minister, you cannot fool the Greek solution. You can't either be New Democracy. When you refer to deaths on the country's total population, for millions, you are committing a statistical crime. Deaths should be calculated on cases rather than on the population. And there you have failed as a government. We are at the bottom of Europe. I give you examples. According to research from the University of Oxford, Greece has taken the toughest measures worldwide. The harder! He's taken action at the Venezuelan level. Yet, you still failed. According to BLOOMBERG, we are in the forty-five in a total of fifty three countries, worse than Nigeria and Pakistan. What success are you talking about? If you count on the population, i.e. those with no cases, which are not ill, it makes sense that they will not die. We're talking about case-seekers, they're the ones who get the percentage. You make financial poaching, you make accounting tactics and you draw a conclusion to deceive the Greek people. No one's gonna fool us, no matter what you're lying in here! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The number, the Greek Prime Minister said, is eight thousand hundred and six dead. He talked about success. For me, this figure, together with the word success, cannot be put into the same proposal. You don't put it in the same sentence. And the Prime Minister said, you told us, Prime Minister, that Europe did not tell us well. What did he say? The carols? I have not understood what 'Europe has not said well'? Did we expect Europe to save Greece? And when did Europe save us? We're talking about dead people! Europe has failed. He avoided his speech by the Greek Prime Minister saying that the Greek Government failed. Europe has failed, he said. So Europe must rule us! We do not need any new Republic, nor ministers, nor consultants or companies! If, then, you made certain moves that we were telling you - and which I will analyse shortly - from September to March, we would not be here today. Germany and Austria do! Kurts vetoed the vaccines, ladies. I haven't seen a veto from Greece, either for Greek-Turkish, for scavenger or for any other matter, since 1978! A veto guilder to organize for Greece, one! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Today, then, the Prime Minister told us what we have been talking about for eight months. You said it was negative for Greeks to be locked in their homes. It's unbelievable! You New Democracy Members don't hear what the Prime Minister says? Months ago, when we told him it was negative to close the Greek at home, because it is problematic that domestic transmission, he was pulling our fingers and telling us that this is not the case, that he has studies. Today the New Democracy, SYRIZA and everyone who don't say "I'm sorry, we were wrong"! We said "do not make lockdown, universal closures anarchy. He needs planning, he wants a plan." He said the Prime Minister, whom I thank - has now come - opens the retail trade carefully. We'll see that, too, because you're making mistakes again. I will not judge you for that now, because I expect to see the results. Because we are always judged by the results. The Prime Minister said that we spent 24 billion euros as a country. I must remind him that neither the government nor the country spent it. It's a loan we got, and we have to return it. I'd say good and good if it was money that the government has achieved a wealth of money and gives them out of this success. Loan's not a success! With borrowers you don't make a government, you lend debts for the next generations. It's over! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the rest, then. You have decided to open up tourism, Prime Minister. You know, Prime Minister, because I read international press, "TUI" announced it a month ago. TUI booked tickets, booked tourists for Greece, for Crete, for Rhodes a month ago! So the Greek Parliament, the Greek people did not know what the 'TUI' knew. What did he know? Like last year's tests, which the 'TUI' itself did not want to be, and finally Mr. Theocharis did the favour of 'TUI'. By mapping the 'TUI' and every 'TUI' you do not engage in politics but in entangled, dependent policy! You're making mistakes! The Prime Minister said the situation in the ICU is balanced. But if you have eighty dead a day, that makes sense! People die and the situation balances. But the situation is not balanced, because ICUs may be emptied, but the Director General at the "Papanikolaou" Hospital, Mr. Kapralos, an excellent professor who has also done research on monoclonals, and says that the system in Attica has collapsed. Destroy, it's over! "In Attica the intangible intubation is for the eyes of the world, when it takes place in a simple chamber," says the doctor, the director of the "Papanikolaou". "There is no staff suitable for treating the patient." "You might do damage to the patient if you don't take care of him." That's what happened this morning. At the 'OPEN' television station, he said so, so that we know what we are talking about. We can't make fun of the Greek people! And thank God the Prime Minister is here now, because I would like to draw his attention. Prime Minister, have you searched the self-test companies? Did you look for them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u55	The Court of Auditors looked into them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u56	Are you sure you searched them?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u57	The Court of Auditors searched them!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u58	Why, are you not responsible as government for looking for a gentleman who has a company? You're wrong, Prime Minister. The Court of Auditors is looking for the procedure. You guys need to look for the companies. So I would like to inform you that 'SUISSEMED', the private capital company opened up six months ago, has neither a website but has taken the largest part, namely 10 million euros! Tell me which company six months ago, no website, no source, nothing, he knew what was going to happen! Also in 'ROCHE' do you know that a major shareholder is 'NOVARTIS'? Do you know, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that in the 'ROCHE' that takes this story with self-tests a major shareholder of 33% is 'NOVARTIS'? She needs to get out of the competition automatically! And if you do not believe it, I will submit for the minutes information on the company's share capital, where it appears that the company "NOVARTIS" takes part for the self-tests indirectly with "ROCHE"
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u59	It is called the 'ROCHE' that is not emphasized in the end.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u60	As I want to call it. If you want 'ROCHE', let me also say 'ROCHE' - 'NOVARTIS'! I am telling you about 'NOVARTIS' and you tell me how 'ROCHE' is pronounced. To understand the logic, Prime Minister, of a politician who is serious, because you are serious. I'm telling you about the finger forest, and you guys look at the finger, trying to iron the speaker's word failure! Well, let's actually go. Will you take "NOVARTIS" out of the contest, yes or no? So if you want me to speak to you in your own language! Drop her out! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the other one. Listen to a company that will take, says, self-tests: Construction Technical Industrial Property Management, the company "ANATS Anonymous Company". It's pharmaceutical and construction, and it's also building houses! Are we serious? Does the Prime Minister tell me here that the government doesn't control the companies that enter the competition? Are we serious? So, can a drug dealer enter and join the contest? Will a company, such as the "NOVARTIS" that was denounced and denounced with too many scandals, take part? It cannot take place and Greece must say: "No, ma'am, you'll get out of here." Are we serious? And, of course, all other companies are wholesalers. They don't produce self-tests themselves. So how did the wholesalers have known for some time now, Mr Varoufakis, and had "stored" millions of self-tests for the competition in Greece? How did they know that? That is what is called 'internal information', if I am not mistaken and it is a criminal offence or, in any case, it is non-ethical, to say so correctly. I wanted the Prime Minister here because I wanted to tell him more. Today, this morning, seven police officers from Thessaloniki, Prime Minister, denounced me the police director of the Direct Action and the Head of DIAIA, who constantly demanded to write fines for covid. I tell you by name, I have their names. I mean, they're writing people about covid. To what advantage, in fact? You write ten people and you can leave the service in half an hour! Do you understand that? He has to write ten people and leave the service! I've been denounced by the police! I would ask the Minister and the Prime Minister to look for and make an ETA. I told you two gentlemen. Of course, they're not yours. SYRIZA put them in, but you still hold them. I'm saying this so you know what's going on. I would also like, Prime Minister, personally from you, since you are here, to see this issue with the ERT. We can't even get by anymore! We don't even get by the ERT anymore! Look at it. Let me tell you about "SKAI" that I understand that. It is a private channel, there have been some things with some of the help you have given them with the "haircuts" of loans, such as the "CORD". I understand that. The ERT? Can't I go to ERT? I don't really understand it! So, I'm not going to private channels because I'm sneezed, and there's the law and while there's the ERT, it's still not working, but the ERT? Should I get permission from someone if he wants me to go, like Zulas or any of the Zulas? Are we serious? But is that possible? What you've suffered as a new Republic from the previous ones and brought cases here, will the rest of us suffer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u61	But every day you're on the channels!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u62	Oh, no. Day by day. Admiral, you're wrong! I haven't been to ERT for a month and thirty-two days! You're wrong! It's not like that! And I would really like, when we talk in here, to know what we're talking about. And I won't say I'm cut off all the channels. And I am not only talking about me but also Mr Varoufakis and Mr Tsipras and Mr Koutsouba. It's a state-of-the-art concept. But the same sensitivity as "NOVARTIS" you didn't have it, Admiral! I said "NOVARTIS" and you didn't say anything there! There's nothing there! You said about ERT! "NOVARTIS" don't you mind? Shouldn't those tests come out? Don't you mind? Don't mind me! Prime Minister, the political system is sadly boxed with the truth. That's what bothers me. We're fighting with the truth. I'm putting me in, too, you know. I want to talk about all of us. But what is true, it's true. Whatever's not true, it's not true. You have been rejected, Prime Minister, so much as it is not true that you have lost what it is. You rejected the image of the New Democracy and the image of the Prime Minister, to be in the unavoidable and in the unaltered. Why? We told him the Prime Minister since April last year that we would all agree on a rule, in a norm, to sit together, because it is a pandemic - you consider it a pandemic and it is a pandemic - with proposals specific to have the overall responsibility of the problem, because it is a war, invisible but war, war with a virus. I accept what you all say. So we had to all sit together. You didn't. And the Prime Minister is coming today and what is he telling us? "We bolster tourism and wait for proposals." Hey, sit down, after you opened his tourism, Prime Minister, what suggestions were you waiting for? After you opened him up. You weren't expecting us to discuss together to recommend that we see how it opens. You opened him up. 'We have opened and waited for you'. It's not like that. If you really wanted to entertain the rest of the political system you should say: Mr. Tsipras, send suggestions to my email. Mr. Velopoulou, the same. Mr. Kutsuba, same. You get them and they have proof after the Prime Minister that the proposals are unrealistic. Not everyone should come today and copy what we have been saying for months, but not dare to say that the Greek Solution, the only solution in here! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I did. And I'm telling Mr. Tsipras that. So let's go. What were we talking about? Really first, solitary at home for incidents is wrong. It's wrong. We've been talking about it. It's our truth. It's not all impact. We've been talking about it. Another case, another incident. In fact, the second is 'no, lockdown'. Now your experts say so. Now your experts say otherwise, the ones who took you into their necks, and they will burn you in the end. Truly third, a press release from the Hellenic Society of Medicine of Laboratory Medicine. Prime Minister, the tests will be carried out by the citizens. I expect an answer, because I have a document here, which says that on the basis of Law 3418/2005 any diagnostic examination is a medical act. And I'm gonna have my uncle or my aunt do medical practice? It's illegal if the citizen does it without a doctor. Even the pharmacist can't do the test. It's forbidden by law. The citizen can't do medical operations. So I read to you what the relevant doctors' document says now, who are complaining: 'It is a medical act that aims to prevent, diagnose, treat and restore human health. Medicinal product subject to existing legislation shall not be entitled to perform any medical practice. Hazards: First, the wrong sample taken by the self-examiner.’ That's the citizen. ‘Second, this is a dangerous medical waste, it is governed by specific legislation on the protection of public health.’ Do you hear what you're going to do? ‘Third, a false negative result may be due to an incorrect sample taken by the self-examiner’. I'll submit the documents in the Minutes. Top doctors who deal with this issue point to you. So you don't make mistakes. Truly fourth, "Annales of Internal Medicine" confirms us. What's he saying? Weekly tests would prevent the United States of America of 2.8 million infections and fifteen thousand seven hundred deaths. From the outset they must be isolated and must not transmit the disease. We've been talking about it since April. Do a test, isolate these people so that the coronary doesn't spread. You didn't hear us. I'll submit it to the Minutes. It's not mine. It's from Yale, the known Yale. Really, fourth, there are incident crimes. You're not sending them to hospitals. You're committing crimes. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Prime Minister, this is the big problem, which is why there is a contagious problem. Someone who doesn't have symptoms walks around, climbs a fever, goes to the hospital. The rest of them get stuck in the hospital. What's simpler? They must be isolated in separate areas and the examination must be carried out there. It's a mistake you made. They had to be home isolated, those who are, I repeat, case, because the incident isn't easily detected, they're asymptomatic. So the coroner is transported to hospitals and people die. What's simpler than that? People are dying. Indeed fifth, the health policy of the panel of experts is wrong. They said 'we'll make Lockdown until the cases are reduced'. Isn't that what they were saying? Two months ago the Prime Minister told us here that we are doing the lockdown to reduce cases, because they have increased a lot. It was a thousand, a thousand, two hundred. Today we have three, four thousand cases and we are told 'we will open the market, we have no lockdown'. Tell me now, why don't the cases fall? They're growing and growing because you're wrong in management. Really sixth. The government's in trouble. Now he's saying other things. "Lockdown was a failure, but without it the cases would have been launched." Listen to what he said! He said it to your Minister the other day on television! "But now that we have a case record, the system doesn't work well. We'll open up." It doesn't make any sense. I'm telling you, it doesn't make any sense. Really seventh. Government failure. We warned you that the lockdown would be disastrous and would fail and, above all, the economy. The government and our channels were slandering. They were saying things about us, 'territorial', 'extreme'. Today that economics have been destroyed and I speak to you as businessman, Prime Minister, and I sincerely speak to you, it is difficult to keep my business in Greece. It's very difficult now. Hundreds of workers are at risk of redundancies. As esteemed as the businessman has, with what he has suffered for a whole year, with the crime that has been committed in the economy, the Greek economy will find it difficult to recover. You will have a much greater burden, Prime Minister, if you do not go to elections now - I say - when the pandemic with the economy is over. Because the pandemic of the economy has neither a vaccine - fake or true - nor a medicine. He's not curing. The only cure to cure the country and its economy is to have a plan and a programme that you do not have, and only we have a plan and we ask for a four-year plan to implement this medicine - an antidote to the pandemic of the economy. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's go to the eighth truth. With lockdown you are destroying the health of children. Today I went to the hospital, ladies and gentlemen, and did my checkup. I've been caught by three doctors. Ask all of you, we have to have doctors here...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u63	What hospital?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u64	Do I have to tell which hospital? Why? It's near your house.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u65	Metropolitan?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u66	Oh, no. The Medical Center. I have private security. I've been paying out of my pocket for thirty years. Listen, the doctors protested to me - to tell the Prime Minister if I can - that in blood tests of young children there is a huge vitamin D deficiency. Can you hear me, Mr. Stefanides, my doctor? You're swinging your head. Why do we have vitamin D deficiency? I'll tell you now. Because our children were locked up for a whole year and didn't get out of the house. The doctor agrees with me. Listen, doctors told me. Let the doctors in New Democracy look for it a little. Let's take a look at this matter carefully, because the lack of vitamin D leads to the precipitation of the immune system leads to health problems beyond their mental health. I'm telling you as a father now, because I'm a father. You parents and you may also be grandparents and grandparents. Proof of the first, Prime Minister, that those who disagree with you are - something your view - sprayed, you have done so divisively, it was wrong, but they are even gagged. The AHEPA administration referred to the Attorney of the D.A. Athanasio Suli. Revealed last November, he started without a free bed for the ITH. Evidence two. The President of the Association of Workers at the Hospital of San Savvas, Costas Catastas, denounced last December the administration of "Saint Savva" for the incomplete protection measures. It is the only subsidiary of which the contract will not be renewed. These are persecutions, persecutions that are honestly wrong. Any dissent in democracy is necessary. Any scientifically documented view from any scientist is a scientific view. Because if we go to the logic of the middle-century 'whoever disagrees with us go to fire', then we will remain in the fact that the earth does not turn, then we will remain in other methods. It is wrong that hospital administrations and administrators behave as hijackings. These authoritarian, authoritarian, at least with New Democracy, but with the rest of us in here, must not exist and they will not exist. Now, now, this whole story, because you have the media with you, Prime Minister, has reminded me of a saying by Abraham Lincoln for a year. Can I tell you what Abraham was saying? How many feet does a dog have? You know? Four. If we think - he said - the tail is a leg, how much does it have? Everybody says five. No, it's a reasonable jump. It's four, because it's four feet. Whatever you say here, whatever you really say to us, you have failed because you are not listening. That's the problem. And in your panic you keep making mistakes and repeat them. We have proposals and I'll put them in my dentistry. Prime Minister, I sincerely say that, we have been entitled to Sputnik vaccine. We're right. Serbia is doing a factory. I've been telling you from September to October to do something. Austria is negotiating a one million-dollar market. It was announced today, Prime Minister. Why would Austria be able to take a million doses of Sputnik? European politicians, German Health Minister Gens Span, who is known, are in favour of buying the Russian Sputnik vaccine now. If we did it from September to October, we would have been much ahead of everyone. That is why I must disapprove to the government: in order to prevent it. You neither intended to prevent you. So you failed. That's the reality. The European Medicines Agency today says that Coreper is considering the Sputnik vaccine because we must at some point, it says, find other sources. So, what's the solution in here? What's the only solution in here? The Greek Solution. Because before he tells you what will happen then, unfortunately, for you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Prime Minister, listen to what the great Confucius said: "The superior man had demands from himself. The inferior man, from the other people." Listen to what you've done now. You speak only of individual responsibility. Individual responsibility, individual responsibility, individual responsibility, citizens' responsibility! Is there no individual responsibility for the ministers? The individual responsibility of any consultant you had, is there not there? The scientists who gave you the wrong information, Prime Minister, who have been mistaken for you, are not responsible for the mistakes they have made? Aren't they going to be punished? Is it not the ministers' fault that we don't have any staff in hospitals? Isn't it SYRIZA, KINAL and the New Democracy who've been eighteen thousand doctors from Greece in the last few years? We studied them, he's now abroad looking for the Minister, Mr. Kikilias, running man, to find doctors for a check. Wrong term, but we say it. Goddamn it, doctors. Eighteen thousand Greek doctors studied at the Greek universities with Greek people's money and left abroad because you expelled them. You're kicking them out! The policies of PASOK - KINAL, SYRIZA and the New Democracy. You are responsible for this crime! These kids and all the rest of the kids back home. We have to do the impossible. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So it's not the experts' fault? It's not your advisor's fault? Isn't it your ministers' fault? The responsibility, Prime Minister, was said by Plato, as the one who chooses. God doesn't have it. Unless some people here think they're gods. God is one. So, according to Plato, it's the one who's chosen. So tell us here who chose the committee, who put it on, who put these other people who said yesterday, but they say today. Get them out of here now. Put on new scientists so they don't mock you too and give you a lot of evidence. Prime Minister, it is neither SYRIZA nor New Democracy nor KINAL nor anyone. But let me tell you this. I may be an opponent of Merkel politically and ideologically. Maybe I don't like her. He's dislike to me, that's what I call it. Not the German people, but Mrs Merkel and her policies, not the face. Let's get this straight. Listen, he apologized twice for the mistakes he made. Chancellor Merkel came out and said sorry. I didn't hear any Minister say sorry in here. One to say sorry. I heard the Prime Minister in honor of leaving a piece of apology. Simple strand: 'Make mistakes'. No, no mistakes were made. When we talk about death, there was a crime. One more, the other one. Listen to what Merkel said: "I apologise for or for announcements that have been revoked", Lockdown and all that you do, "or for the management of the pandemic." In the only country where the honor was lost, and the apology is this country that no one dared to say: "I made a mistake. I apologise." He wants courage. He wants a manhood. He wants dignity to do it. Do it once! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] So, as Moliere said: 'We are not responsible only for what we are doing'. Oh, no. We're responsible for what we didn't do. You're responsible because you haven't heard the Greek Solution since the first time. So the mistakes are yours and they are great mistakes. I will not say what happened in the Brussels Court of First Instance, what happened in Finland, which changes the legal framework. I'm getting over this. Prime Minister, I won't tell you about the masks. Masks failed. I'm telling you, and you know that. Whatever you say to me is a failure. The mask is a failure. I have studies here, which I'm going to testify in the Minutes, so I don't have time to prove that masks are a barbecue real. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Yeah, yeah. Now listen to me. I'll prove it to you because it's a bartender. Until the factories come out, we said the masks aren't good. As soon as we took out the factories, the masks work well if we wear them double. How am I supposed to convince the citizen that they're doing good? And here I have from Texas the curve using a mask or without the use of a mask. I'll testify to you. Look at the curve. If you give evidence, I'll give it to you. I'll testify the investigation, read it. It's not the mask. Not because it's not good, but the problem is its use. It's like the gun. The gun's for defense. But if we use it the wrong way, it can kill a man. So the mask is not a solution. Do you know what the solution is? To understand that the constant incarceration of people passes the coronary, understand that in the hospital when someone goes with fever and is asymptomatic or symptomatic, he carries him to the hospital and dies people. That's the solution. That's where you start, not the mask. We're right about the vaccines. We're the only party that had reservations. We're right. Our vindication is that we are the only stable party of reason, seriousness and arguments without being influenced by anyone. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] First judgment: Germany, Minister for Health of the sixteen federal states: 'They decided that the vaccine 'ASTRAZENECA' will only be given to people over sixteen years, because it has problems'. Second vaccination condition: According to the Paul Erlich Institute, which supervises the German vaccination programme: “Perority of vaccine thrombosis. 30 one case of brain thrombosis’. Third condition: ‘Suspended vaccination in Canada for less than fifty years’. I'll put it all in the Minutes. Clause 4: ‘Emergency. Nursing in Corfu showed paralysis of the feet after the second dose of vaccine.” Fifth sentence concerns my own relative. Mrs. Bakoyannis, please listen. I have an appreciation for you, because you're a serious man. Male, eighty-two years old, healthy limbs, from Thessaloniki. He had no problem with the vaccine. The sugars are adjusted and everything is fine. I'll give you his name if you want. Ten days after the vaccine, he left pulmonary oedema. Minister, the pulmonary oedema is thrombosis, you know, you're a doctor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u67	(Don't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Simopoulos, are you a doctor? What's the matter with you? We have a doctor, Mrs. Athanasios.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u69	I did the vaccine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Simopoulos, even a dead man...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u71	But, Mr. Velopoulos, I made the vaccine!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u72	Don't do me like that, Mr. Simopoulos. Be nice. You're also a Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u73	I'm polite!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u74	Come on, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u75	Be nice. I can be more deceptive to your face, and I have arguments. But I don't. I'm noble. Well, let's actually go. I say, even a dead man exists, be vigilant. I am not against it, I said 'conscientious'. I'm not gonna make the advertiser or the anti-semitator of the vaccines. But we will be vigilant. The sixth right is the study by the European Medicines Agency: 'Events of vaccines in Europe'. We as a Greek Solution don't all say it's because of the vaccine. Oh, no. But we're recording them in the Minutes. We have the study, which writes Europe, not Velopoulos, and I will present it to you in the Minutes. What's he saying? "One hundred and sixty-two thousand post-vaccination side effects", "Three thousand nine hundred four post-vaccination deaths", "PFIZER": a hundred two thousand cases", "MODERNA": five thousand cases." He says deaths inside, I won't mention it. I'll testify to the Minutes and whoever wants and cares, let me read it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u76	Mr President, my time please be careful.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u77	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u78	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u79	Our Seventh Jurisdiction: Reacts Doctors. Today the professor of pathology, Mr. Vlachogiannopoulos, resigned. I'm not going into personal with Mr. Kikilia about what he said, it's none of my business. He did, however, resign from the IOB Committee. The man has denounced a lot of things and I'll file it in the Minutes. Eighth right: Germany's Interior Minister refused yesterday to be vaccinated. He said he wouldn't be an experimental animal. The German Interior Minister refused. Prime Minister, I would like to ask a few questions to close. We are unhappy, unfortunately, to be confirmed. You're unhappy. But I want you to tell me how many died under the age of seventy and how many died over the coronary. Mr. Kikilia, I need you to give me numbers. I ask the ministers and they don't answer me. How many died and how many because of having underlying illnesses? You tell me. I have the EGE table, which is divided into twenty-five years, while in other countries it is divided differently. Why, Minister? Is it because the evidence is cooking in one direction? Here's the EAFRD table and the table of other countries and I'll testify to it. Otherwise they count elsewhere, or you count here, which means you're smuggling at the statistical level. When you have underlying illnesses and you die, you have because you had a coronary, that's for sure. But when you do vaccine and die after the vaccine, you don't die because you did the vaccine. These are not reasonable, Minister, they really are not reasonable. Also, tell us, do vaccinated transmit or not? Question: Does the mutated virus catch him, yes or no? Yesterday I read LIBERATION, which said that they have many reservations, even the scientists who are in favour of vaccines if they can protect the vaccine in question. I'm telling you, you went. Prime Minister, unfortunately, you split up with your statements. You were telling Greek-speaked people, but now you're making another mistake. You blackmail and divide them again. Mr Lebanese comes out and says 'a special regime for vaccinated persons'. So the government encourages vaccinated people to do what? If you get vaccinated, you'll get a tax exemption. Do I? They're able to do that, too. Mr Lebanese, the kind Minister, said so, I very much appreciate him. So I close, and I say, gentlemen of the New Democracy, Prime Minister, my life, my path and my path, taught me that nothing works for anyone if he doesn't work for this particular thing. He wants a job. It takes a lot of work, organization and plan. And, unfortunately, you proved a few. You didn't have a plan. And in my dentistry, I'll prove it to you with other evidence. What do we say? Either listen to us and copy quickly or we go to elections if we can't come. Because we are asking for a four-year period to work for Greece and the Greeks and not to work for the Greeks by lying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr. President. Immediately afterward, Mr. Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, is called on Stepma for his own prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Prime Minister, let us be honest today no matter what you say, no matter what we see - if they see our debate with sadness and concern to flood their souls. Yet it could all be very different. Let me have an alternative time for 2020. January 15, 2020: Two weeks before the World Health Organisation even declared an alarm for the COVID pandemic -19, Mr.Mitsotakis convenes a panel of experts, involving not only epidemiologists from Attica but also from Thessaloniki - something you did not do - and the hospital doctors, their representatives who will be asked to raise weight in hospitals. February 26th: First case diagnosis as it happened. The Committee of Experts shall now meet daily and detailed minutes within 24 hours, so that we can all see what has been discussed. The next day, Kyriakos Mitsotakis convenes a government council, which approves 1 billion for the immediate reinforcement of the rugged HS for the timely supply of protective equipment for thousands of recruits of permanent nurses and doctors. 1 March: The Committee of Experts recommends the immediate supply of large quantities of reagents and preparation for setting up in the whole country of mass testing centres outside hospitals, as Mr Mitsotakis explains after the victory over COVID -19 will be incorporated into the National Health System, which needs such a primary care network. 12 March: First death by coronary in Greece. Three hundred first of a thousand mass-test centres begin to work. 22 March: The battle of the National Health System begins with a two-month strict quarantine, as you did, but with the permanentization of the same units that serve all subsidiary doctors and nurses not only the ICUs, the proclamation of new permanent posts of two thousand doctors and five thousand nurses. On the day of our national celebration, the Prime Minister announces the full operation of all the five hundred mass testing centres. In April, a single electronic case record is put into operation to help correct tracking. On 8 April, at the Prime Minister's mandate, the Minister of Finance announces the substantial support of the economy, with the abolition of all pre-paid taxes, with haircuts - not suspensions - of the debts to taxes, insurance funds and small and medium-sized banks affected by quarantine. The upper VAT goes from 23% to 15%. The small business tax at 15%. Finally, HERAKLIS and the creation of a public bad bank for'red' loans. Kyriakos Mitsotakis himself supports his Minister, with a statement in international media. He says: "I am sure that our partners understand that we have a sacred obligation to do what is self-evident, without any prior approval, at a time when we are facing a question of life and death, but also businesses that have managed to survive after ten years of crisis, which must not be closed. We do whatever it takes, nothing more." A programme of support for the people of culture and for all unpaid citizens is announced, with a mixture of allowances and special debit cards and transferable electronic credit through the TAXIS NET, electronic IOUs. On May 20, having already done more than two million mass tests and mapping the spread of viral load, the country is preparing for exiting the horizontal quarantine. Those who stay home because of a positive test are financially supported at EUR 500 for these two weeks, for the fortnight and at home, if they are left alone. On 23 May, the preparation for the opening of tourism begins. The requirement to enter the country for each visitor's negative molecular test seventy-two hours ago and rapid test at the entrance. On the 28th of May, the Communiqué announces Merkel-Marron deal. Instead of the Eurobond, which you were asking for, Mr Mitsotakis, along with Mr McCron, German Chancellor imposes a temporary recovery fund. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, represents exchanges of national bonds with Eurobonds issued by the European Central Bank for international duration and the Greek Prime Minister veto declares that the European Council's plan does not, at least, provide for the serious restructuring of our debt to the ESM, at least the first Memorandum, those 53 billion and permanent discharge of the country from Memorandum commitments that do not apply to any other country - a member of the Eurozone. On June 1, while the first three thousand new permanent doctors and nurses are on duty at the ESS, it reoperates the "Lomadon" in Thessaloniki to alleviate the remaining hospitals from COVID-19 incidents. In the meantime, a new horizontal quarantine is prevented, as a thousand five hundred mass testing centres operate 12 hours a day, allowing weekly tests to all. On June 19th, why not EOT launches an international campaign with a slogan: "safety in reason, humanity without without limits" security in reasonable contexts, humanity without limits. On 1 July the intensive training of teachers in the procedures for effective telematicing begins, with possibilities for pre-registration in accordance with the standards of the British Open University. All Deputy Professors are recruited on 1 July to prepare themselves. Buildings near schools are required to increase classes and reduce the number of pupils per room, at most thirteen. Visual fibre and new computers are installed in schools with fire, massive tablet supply, as well as preparation for sending printed material to students in their homes. Appropriate preparation is also made at universities. And so we arrived in September, so they open up schools with molecular tests for teachers, teachers and students and beyond weekly rapid test. On October 5, the mass test network reports an increase in viral load and the Prime Minister requires in advance private clinics for the treatment of those coming out of the ICU. On November 14th, the news comes from outside for the good performance of the vaccines. The Prime Minister announces the gradual transformation of the network of the thousands of five hundred mass testing centres into mass testing and vaccination centres. "Today..." - says Mr. Mitsotakis - "... we throw them in the fight against the covid. Tomorrow will be the backbone of primary care our National Health System." And so in December, despite the fact that vaccines are being delayed with a criminal responsibility from Brussels, the country, which suffered for a decade like any other European country, is looking at 2021 in good omens. Unfortunately, this was not the case. Something about the government's abstinence for anything that is public good, something about the commitments of Mr.Mitsotakis to clinical leaders, canalarchs, collegelors and general fewers, something about "yes" in the troika, something about inability and responsibilities, how the great opportunity to protect the citizens has been lost, to get out, to teach a major lesson to friends and enemies, saving people, keeping businesses alive, fleeing from the debt-governing colony, preserving freedoms that our people have won with their blood. Instead, we have lockdown and dry bread, in an environment where the debt is bewildered, as neither the restructuring of old debts nor the transfer of young people at European Union level, gambling with the gasification of the country, from Greek and Maroussi, to every neighborhood that is enchanted by the OPAP play and, of course, the lies that orchestrate the state-owned, oligarchic means of mass deception. And you, Mr Mitsotakis, are presided over by a government that is panicky, obviously, is making an unprecedented evil. Mr. Mitsotakis, at your address on 17 March, by addressing doctors and nurses, you said the following and correctly: "It is not enough for you just a handful of applause and a public praise, but more and more, and I will personally take care of it." And you took care of it. Only this more you would do for doctors and nurses was persecution, administrative and criminal when they dared to reveal the real conditions of their work. And it is not only the contagious case of Kostas Katsakia, President of the Association of Workers of the Hospital of San Savvas, who has been avenged and now fired because he dared the atheist to react to the disciplinary persecutions exercised by the administration against doctors who made the mistake of treating COVID -19. We had a recent investigation in Thessaloniki against Dr. Sakis Sullis for saying - rightly - that the AHEPA newspaper on November 10 started with full 100% of the COVID -19 beds. We also had prosecutions against the Presidents of the Federation of Administrative Doctors of Greece, the Association of Hospital Doctors of Thessaloniki and the Panhellenic Federation of Workers of Public Hospitals. Why? Because they participated in protest gatherings with all protection measures for the abandonment of the ESS and its people. That's a corresponding re-engineering thing you've been showing everywhere. The Ministry of Development recently uses pandemic to deliver the people's markets - listen - listen! - to corporations, perhaps to supermarkets that always wanted to shut down the popular markets. How? It's scheduled to remove permission if - listen, listen to me! - 70% of the declared production is not sold. Resurrects? You've lost your license. Mr. Mitsotakis, are these persecutions in your absence? So we should finally ask ourselves who governs this place! Let's go to the other day. You gave a big show, with the imaginable National Plan "Greece 2.0", which is also compared to national regenerativeism. Good thing you didn't choose to do it yesterday that was too early to have a real unreality show. [[Applause from the Wing of Mera25]] You seem panicked - and I understand that - in front of the tsunami of padlocks and unemployment that comes, which, of course, precedes the fifth memorial to which I have spoken to you in this Chamber on 8 April. And you decided, it seems, as every Memorandum Prime Minister from George Papandreou and then demand that citizens glorify you for the new debt mountains you are cutting. In June you returned from Brussels talking about 72 billion and triumphed about them. Today this is less than sixty. Of these, 12.7 are new loans from the Recovery Fund that you said in this Chamber we will not get. You told me personally. Now you said you'd get them. But how? It will guarantee the state for them by large companies. 9 billion will be owed to the State in the Com munity - because, as you know, the Commission has no money, we guarantee them - and the remaining 28.3 billion is money that you tell us that companies will borrow themselves from somewhere to throw it into the economy. I'm impressed that you held back and didn't say the other thing about Toto. The net benefit of public aid from the Recovery Fund did not say how much it is. Removing is simple. Ten billion for six years. That's it. That's what you'll get. The realities, net payments are 10 billion for six years. We have said so since June and you have confirmed that to us, Mr Stagioras, in December. How much did he sign that you'd get from the Recovery Fund in 2021? Two and a half - these are - of the 10 billion in the six-year period. So you will get 2,5 billion from this terrible Recovery Fund, in a year when the state has to pay 11.5 billion to lenders and borrow another 15 billion to cover the 'black' budgetary hole - you say it - and in a year when GDP has already arrived - at the moment we are talking about - at 164% with the collapse we have. Last time ELSTAT told us 165,8%. In other words, in relation to last year, this time you told us that 2019 had GDP of 188%, we are talking less than 13%. Leave the 8.2% and the cooking. In a year's time, ladies and gentlemen, I say this with soul pain, there is no opposition to this - where we had a collapse, a reduction in investment throughout Europe 50% for the first time in the history of capitalism - 50% reduction in net investment in Europe! - We understand what's going on here in this country. We've got fast investments. How much longer, Mr. Mitsotakis, will you imagine no money, making the blind eyes to real billions lost every day? You're counting on what's coming, but you don't count on what's gone. It's like you're watching a bathtub hole, the water's going out of the water, and you're focusing on the tap from which they drip some drops, which you present as a waterfall. Even the algae are of greater value, Mr Mitsotakis, than the silk ribbons that you so skillfully presented in Greece 2.0. We have no doubt that money is too much at absolute prices. But what money, and for the benefit of whom? The Piraeus Bank's corpses that once again - pluralist! - Is the citizen paying at the time that Piraeus sells its "red" loans to the predators, who call them to humiliate them by demanding 100 euros for every 3 euros provided by the casino directors, Mr. Latsis, the PPP and the various Eldorados, who see the country as a cheap field in which they practice their art by boiling down the locals? 'FRAPORT', which after taking us, with our own money, airports, will now also receive from the Recovery Fund the money that your Government has secured for investment? How much longer will the mediator be charged for the predators who haunt him and who are waiting to take his house, his shop, his nature and - this is recent - his popular markets? The citizens, Mr Mitsotakis, will indeed face a new tsunami of padlocks and unemployment as the pandemic begins to gather, while at the same time they hear you talk about the mountains of debt, which you are loading them on behalf of your circles. Furthermore, they know - they are not foolish our people out there - that once the German Federal Government's budget is balanced, the mandate will come through Brussels in Athens for the fifth memorandum we have been talking about since April last year, with pension cuts, with 100% tax advances, etc. Listening to you about tens of billions on the way, people's thoughts remind the lyric of Collerge, "water, water, everywhere, but not a sip to drink." The only innovation in the fifth memorandum is that it won't come together. There's no package coming. A little bit, he's coming. He started with "HERAKLI". He continued with the bankrupt. It goes on with the abolition of eight hours and the aggressive assimilation of work, which is, incidentally, responsible for three dead in India, the systematic looting of small and medium-sized enterprises. Today, it is within the ranks of the fifth Memorandum, "Greece 2.0". And wherever they are, the new cuts and the new taxes will come. Drop, drop the poison of the fifth memorial. Will you tell me, but do I see nothing good in "Greece 2.0"? Of course I can see. I see aid which will in fact add about 0.5% of GDP every year for six years, namely, a total of 3%. If we are now in 164, go to 169, while we were at 188 according to the figures last year of 2019. In other words, it is macroeconomicly insignificant. I see a list of projects, many of which are interesting, but of the type of ESDP. From nothing, of course they're fine. What is not, is a crisis. It is not a reboot of Greece, it is not the exploitation of the crisis about the jump forward. I would remind you, Mr Mitsotakis, that since 2010 we have received many billions from the NSRP, but have not helped compensate for the collapse of investments due to the quadruple bankruptcy of a state, banks, households and businesses. So with your new NSRF without immediately "cutting" public and private debt is doomed to remain in history as macroeconomic and socially insignificant. And that's not all. Mr. Mitsotakis, bones break the fragmentation of the works I read in "Greece 2.0", the lack of cohesion, the absence of a comprehensive plan. Even the 'green' interventions, which are of course welcome, are very gloomy for the great leap of the 'green' industrial revolution that the country needs. Where's the transition plan on hydrogen? Where is the plan for the heavy reindustrialisation of the Megalopolis and Ptolemais for the post-liberalisation era? Where is the programme to re-establish agricultural production on the basis of local biological seeds rather than those of Bayer Monsanto? Nowhere! Only predators see to a very large extent. Mr. Mitsotakis, you must remember, although you are my younger, in the parks used smoke and mirrors to create the illusion of perspective. You do the same. The problem is, at some point, that reality scatters tobacco and breaks mirrors. The more you increase tons and invest in propaganda, the more evil you show to the people's corporations, to the workers of the DEDAC, the LARCO, the EMCDDA wherever they may be, the more you persecute the doctors of the National Health System and our youth, the closer this moment. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u82	We are also grateful for the precise respect of time. We then enter the cycle of secondary years with Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. Let me comment on a point of order. I came today to a debate that Mrs Gennimata caused, using the provision of the Rules of Procedure which enables every party leader to have such a debate per parliamentary term. I must tell you that, when you have produced a debate, I find it inappropriate for you to be absent from all the speakers who follow your own speech. Mrs. Gennamas, she's still not here for a second. I hope she's at least listening to me from the security of her office. At some point, however, we have to realise that if we all want to gain respect for parliamentary procedures, there are certain rules which must be respected by all those involved in these debates. Mr President, I have come and have been placed in my prology, making an attempt not to disagree on elements of reality and to have a minimum framework of understanding, at least on the basis of which we can examine different policy options. What did I collect? Mrs. Gennamas, pillowing. From Mr. Tsipras, zero. From Mr. Koutsuba, negativity. Mr. Velopoulos, populism. Mr. Varoufakis, surrealism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] I continue with the Greek people on the only path I know, that of realism. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] For our policies of realism are not one of the other features which I have given to the other political leaders. I begin my position with a reference to the importance of today, which Mr Koutsoubas alone pointed out by the political leaders who have taken the floor and, indeed, it was uncertain to say that I did not do so in the protagonism that I did not do. Today is the International Day of Autism, and I believe that all of us should turn to those children, their families and all the professionals who are making an extremely difficult effort to provide children with autism with the best quality of life and the best prospects in their lives once and end their education. I would like to point out that in the specific case of special actions, the New Democracy Government has carried out and completed an action initiated by the SYRIZA Government, in other words the recruitment of four thousand five hundred permanent teachers in special education. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] It is an important deposit of permanent recruitment, so that we can support those children who today have the greatest need. Obviously, the Ministry of Health has also unfolded an overall plan in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and its structures, which starts with the crucial issue of early diagnosis, so important that we can provide children with autism with the necessary support from an early age. It then moves to their education and, of course, to the very difficult and thorny question of the integration of these children, especially children in the most heavy forms of autism on the one hand, social activity and employment. Yesterday I had the opportunity to visit the Special Training Laboratory in Agios Dimitrios, and to admire once again the important work done by teachers, workers in special education, but of course also the excess soul of children's families with autism, in order to provide their children with the best possible future. Ladies and gentlemen, I would first of all like to respond to the positions that I have heard from Mrs Gennamata and Mr Tsipras. I must tell you, Mrs Gennamata, that as I listened to you, I was thinking that in this Chamber the world of traditional party verbalism conflicts with the world of reality and realism. You have come and read a speech prepared, so that you have not heard absolutely anything from what I have said, as if you did not pay any attention to my proposal to come here with realistic proposals to deal with the pandemic. If I kept up and had to put your proposals in titles, I would say: 'First, you made it all wrong. Secondly, recruitment and most of the money are solutions. And thirdly, thankfully there is also PASOK that saved Greece of postmopolitics." If I had to make a summary of your speech, somehow I would describe it. I must tell you that as far as my content is concerned, you have reminded Mr Tsipras strongly, but without the talent for lying and populism. You should understand and think about you at some point, because in all measurements - I do not care so much about the quantitative characteristics of the measurements, but I think everyone should be interested in the quality characteristics - the voters of your party seem to support government policies, and you insist on charging the government all possible mistakes that may occur at the place, possibly to escape from your own dead ends. I will not respond in detail to all your positions, but I cannot leave a professional, Mrs Gennamas, a phrase that you have said. And I read from the Minutes: "Unequal policies with the voice to be sub-represented or not to be heard under tens of millions of euros of state propaganda, with “business” by “Maximus S.A.” only for friends. Really? Biscuits? Taxi? Do you have anything specific to say? It's like I hear Mr. Janakopoulos the other day. If you have anything specific to say, go up to the Step and say it! But insinuating such a government from you, he does not accept it! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Specific complaints to have the courage to go up to this Step and make them. But, as I said, unfortunately, you remind me of Mr Tsipras more and more in your complaint. I'm sorry, because otherwise you'd started your route and otherwise you'd end up. But these are your choices, which I don't want to comment more on. I now come to what Mr Tsipras said, who repeated the well-known pattern that little - very much all of us have screwed up and that this is the truth. I wonder, Mr Tsipras, how do you define the term truth, if not by invoking real data, which are not photographs of the moment but which, as I said, illustrate the overall approach of the pandemic for thirteen months? You came and showed us a map, which actually shows Greece red this week on the ECDC map. It's true, Mr. Tsipras. We never hid it. We have not said that Greece is currently facing a strong third wave. What I described is the statistics over the thirteen months and the overall treatment of pandemic. For that, we will finally be judged and for that we will be assessed. And as I have said, these facts are not questionable. It's very easy, you know, someone to cut and sew, take numbers and try to make a whole picture. You did it for the vaccines, but that's what I'll come to. But here you must be much more careful when talking about a country's drastic failure to deal with the pandemic. Because it is very simple and the data do not confirm you and - let me say - that is not the impression that there is a public today. Citizens, yes, they're tired. Society is disappointed that it may have waited in spring for this adventure to end much earlier, but we have been faced with a second wave and with a third wave like all other European countries. I'll say it again. It's not a Greek peculiarity, it's not a pandemic. It is something that happens once in a hundred years and which all countries have been called upon to deal with, without anyone having a pandemic handbook ready. There is no such thing, and so many countries set back, reconfigured their strategy, saw what it worked and what it did not work. That's a reality. To come here and say: 'You have failed all' - I shall repeat - it is not only wrong for the government, but it is unfair to the overall effort made by all the state apparatus, which our health doctors, our nurses, our civil protection, those who run the vaccination centres of the "Freedom" operation and, finally, all the citizens. Because all citizens, one way or another, I believe, have realised the criticality of the situation and the need to tackle the current reality, with information we may not have had a few months ago. There is one question I would like to answer, because I think it is reasonable. She was also put by you and by Mrs. Gennamas. It is a simple but reasonable question, perhaps: 'But do you close with a thousand cases and open with three and a half?' So what's the answer to this? The reality is, when we closed in January, we saw the tendency of cases. It never matters to the absolute number, but the upward trend of the cases. And if we had not closed in January, as we have closed, we are absolutely certain that the increase would be exponential and the burden on the health system would be such that we would probably not be able to manage it. I will tell you this again, and I think Mr Xanthos can explain it to you too, because the British executive in January, which we have to deal with, in conjunction with the bad weather in January, February, March - the dominance - made virus transmission much faster, much more intense. I don't think that's hard to understand. So we judged that we had to take action then. We took them earlier than other European countries and put a brake not as effective as we would have expected, for two reasons: because the virus is more contagious and because, yes, there was fatigue in society and not all citizens complied to the extent that they complied in April and May. Don't be fooled. I am not going to mention the marches or the fact that you have never put your back as Opposition to really support the basic protection measures. I will only say, however, that at the moment the tired citizen is much easier to forget his mask, go home to a friend's house and drink a coffee, without complying with the necessary protective measures and feeling that he is safe while he is not. It is, of course, very difficult - and I have said this before and we have never sought to do so - to have control mechanisms everywhere, to intervene whenever every citizen can do little illegality. We didn't do that. We trusted the citizens and, to a large extent, the citizens returned this confidence to us. However, we have no doubt that the degree of compliance today is not the same as in April, May, when there was great fear and unfortunately - or thankfully, depending on how you see it - we had to deal with an enemy, who was completely unknown. So that's the reality. Today, what we are doing is not opening up - I will say it again. It's a careful redistribution of activities. I do not think we have a different view on the issue of trans-national movements. After all, you said that trans-national movements had been blocked. I'll retrospectively agree with you. It was a committee suggestion. He doesn't think I'm entirely in agreement. We've been adjusting for some time. We have retrospectively decided that this is not a measure that is effective. As for the way in which we open the retail trade very carefully, it might be better to have workers who can be in the field of work, with care, with the mask, than sitting at home. Because those people who will work at the retail trade too, when they do not work, will be at home, and much easier they can go to another house to drink coffee. At the moment, then, a decision was taken by the committee as a whole, which, by weighing the data, decided, in the phase that we are in and by assessing that we are on a set in the third wave, that it is something that we are dealing with at the moment. It is an option, which does not pose a significant risk of speeding up the spread of pandemic. I want you to tell me directly whether you agree or not. Because enough of these general considerations. Do you agree or disagree with this decision?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u84	Who?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u85	The reopening of the retail trade with the rules laid down by the committee? Do you agree or disagree? I would like a clear placement from Mrs. Gennimata and from you and from Mr. Koutsouba and Mr. Velopoulos and from Mr. Varoufakis. We were offered an almost unanimous recommendation by experts. As far as I understand it, there was a difference in committee. Tell us if you agree or disagree, if we have to do anything else, if we have to open the malls or stores, if you judge that we don't need the special sms for the three-hour. Say something specific, finally. If we agree that this is the right thing, then we should all go out and explain it to the citizens together, so that we can achieve maximum compliance with the basic measures of personal protection, which we know will accompany us for a long time, until we reach the immunity of vaccines. I'm coming to the vaccines now. Look, I can't remember here, Mr. Tsipras, you have a story on the subject of vaccines. I would like to remind you of the statement you made on 2 November when, by referring to me, you said that Mr Mitsotakis is taking measures but then constantly on holiday - and be careful - and sells hope - 2 November - and that he has already secured and, free of charge, a vaccine that has not yet been discovered, while not even taking care of free access to a test. You said that on November 2, when the country was preparing for the 'Freedom' operation, because we knew the vaccines were working. You on 2 November undermined the attempt to vaccinate with such statements. And you come now and you say what? You say: Very good. We need more vaccines. How nice! And what should be the vaccination strategy? Do the vaccines - notice what you told us - the elderly, those who have underlying illnesses, but also the productive classes. I mean, everybody. I mean, everybody's making the vaccines. Oh, how nice! How'd you think of that? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] But how did you think about it? It is a very wise thing to say. Of course, Mr Tsipras, I can assure you that if I had ten million vaccines, I would open up the platform and everyone would. That's not the point. The point is that on the basis of the numbers of vaccines we have and which are defined by the production capacity of vaccine-producing companies - I will not go back to the patent issue, if you believe that, in your proposal, we could magically produce vaccines in Greece and have resolved our issue - the prioritisation of vaccinations is determined by the National Committee for Vaccines. Do you have another point of view? Tell us about it. Mr. Xanthos, do you have another opinion? Do you think the elderly should not be vaccinated first, immediately after those who have the heavy underlying illnesses, immediately after category (b) and then go per age? If you have another point of view, tell us. It's gonna be respectable. But you cannot come here to say that you poorly do not have enough vaccines, when you know very well that vaccines buy Europe and leave them implying that other countries have bought vaccines on the side, something that has not been done. You referred to Germany. That's a heavy conversation. Don't tell me. Mrs. Merkel, tell Mrs. Merkel.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u86	Did I lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u87	Ms. Merkel has disobeyed it. Go out and say that. Go out and tell Germany, please very much, which is right now very behind Greece in the vaccinations, that it has more vaccines. In other words, we are talking worse about Germany. Am he succeeded in the vaccination process, he's got more vaccines and he can't do it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u88	Did I lie?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u89	What you're saying is not confirmed by anyone. So where do you know that? How do you know that there is a European country today that has bypassed the process and bought it now - now that we are talking about, I repeat - more vaccines than Europe's per capita allocation, as Europe has identified? Because you all know very well that the problem is about now. It's not about June, July, August. There will be some time - very soon - that we will have more vaccines than we will need. Because all European countries have provided for buying more vaccines than we need, because we had to be sure that we would get them as soon as possible. So, here we are dealing with a problem of timing and the problem of timing is the problem that I have highlighted and emerged from Europe's failure to follow the rate of vaccination of Israel, the United Kingdom, the United States. However, this is a global problem in Europe, it is not Greece's problem. I criticised this. You practiced, too, as many others did. But how do you charge it to the Greek Government? How do you imply being misled in a debate that we might somehow have more vaccines and do not have them? Are you suggesting we buy vaccines from Russia? Are you suggesting it? Say it! You say this directly, 'yes, we need to buy vaccines from Russia'. What would that mean? Let's get this straight. It would mean that the country would deviate from the European framework. He could under conditions do so if there were vaccines available from Russia. Do you know if there are any vaccines available from Russia? You know that? I can tell you, then, that there are currently no significant quantities of vaccine available from Russia. And if we'd like that, which would mean...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u90	Please, be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u91	I'm sorry, why are you yelling? I don't understand. And if we wanted to buy vaccines from Russia and take the risk of circumventing the European process, I can assure you that there are no such quantities, which one deserves to take the trouble of having this debate. And I stop here. From there on, then, if you have another point of view, Mr Tsipras, on the vaccination procedure, whether or not we should follow the European directives and immediately do the second dose or proceed to a procedure as quickly as possible to make the first dose and wait for the second dose, that would probably be an issue that we should discuss. It's a scientific matter. It is a scientific issue, because there are countries that followed the strategy 'Let's go inoculate with what we have with one dose and have God when we will get the vaccines for the second dose', although the vaccine - I will stress this - has been approved to receive three weeks or four - in the case of MODERNA - after the first dose. We have not chosen this strategy. Other countries have chosen something different. It is the countries that today appear in the tables to have made many first doses of vaccine. That would, in fact, be a subject of discussion, not of criticism. Because I would like to stress that we are fully in line with the procedure for the adoption of the European Medicines Agency. Then we should go explain to our elderly fellow citizens why we do not give them the second dose and let them wait two and three months, when they know very well that these vaccines are transmissible. That is what I could understand as being the subject of discussion, in which we could possibly have different scientific views. If you have a different view on this, I would be absolutely prepared to discuss it. With regard to the second part of your proposal, your proposal was very general, since you re-examined your general criticism. It was, like, about making lots of vaccines for everyone, doing tests for everyone. That's what we do with self-tests. Let us put ourselves clearly on this issue. That is what we are doing and we are trying to define a framework, which will eventually train the Greek society to take on - yes - the responsibility to do this - is not a complex one, it is not a difficult one - and then, of course, to state the result. We must be absolutely sure that, especially for workers, their working rights will be safeguarded. That the statement, if any, of a positive test will not be subject to circumvention. That there is no worker who will perform a test, he will come out positive and he will be afraid to declare it, whether or not he has negative consequences for his work. This is a matter that must concern us all very seriously. It is also a question of control mechanisms. However, at the moment, if we really want to have an overall picture of the epidemic with many more tests, other than self-tests, there is no solution. We will be one of the first countries to do so. I am absolutely convinced that despite any minor failures, we are doing absolutely right. We will open our schools, when we have the possibility for all students at first high school, to supply this test and when they can do a test every week, so that we can make sure they don't come to school asymptoms and without knowing how to disperse the virus. As far as I am concerned, I did not want to come back. In fact, I found with interest that in today's debate you carefully withdrew from the Members that you called on me to be in the Chamber my great short-sighted Mr. Polakis, who would fight to convince us...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u92	Don't say that, because Paul can come!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u93	Yeah, there's a limit you're fulfilling. If he comes, he will violate the rules on the number of Members who must be in the Chamber. However, I cannot resist and do not read to you certain titles of publications from your own time, on your own government. "The agony for a IF bed", "Seventy-five persons waiting for more than five-four hours", "Interconnected patients in corridors, due to the weakness of the IFs", "Save", died waiting to find a bed in intensive", "Thousands of deaths per year from IFs", "It is not enough heroes in the IFs, it is necessary to design", "Research that shows a 24-hour wait for IFs in Athens". In fact, the latter is a text of the "Written by the authors". 'Listen death for a place in an ICM'. This has happened for four years, on your own governance and without a pandemic! So stop swinging the finger on this government that in a pandemic doubled the Beds of the ICUs! You have done absolutely nothing about this problem, absolutely nothing! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And now you're coming to move our fingers, because in an unprecedented health crisis there's actually been intubated outside of the ICU and indeed there's a little waiting to get into ICU, when in you under normal circumstances with the annual flu the situation in intensive care units was much worse than the one it is today. Because, therefore, everyone has a story, especially you and the staff of the Ministry of Health, which is still advising you, you must be much more careful about the issue of intensive care units. I should like to close, Mr President, and apologise if I did a little misuse of time. I really have the impression that there are parties in this Chamber who are 'feed' by the pandemic and think that, as long as the pandemic exists, they have a continuous opposition weapon to permanently criticise - most often unfair, sometimes justified - the government. You know, Mr. Tsipras, once the antimony stayed without memorials, only with the duo in the hand. Be careful, because the corneas will be left at some point without a coronary. Because the coroner will end and then what will happen without barbarians? What's going to happen? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] To finish with a little more cheerful note, because you had a dialogue with Ms. Bakoyannis that reminded you of the album of Savvoulou "Chamikos Outside", a good friend reminded me that in this album there is another song, "Chamiko". It is the last song of the album and this song includes the verse "Greek that resists, Greece that insists and anyone who does not understand does not know where to press and where to go". If Dionysus Savvopoulos is well, I think that verse is written for you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u94	So we move on to the cycle of seconds by calling at Step the President of the parliamentary group of the Change Movement, Mr. Fotini Gennamas, for her own denology. From the poems we say, I could say 'for her indictment', but they are speeches! Here, Mrs. Gennamas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u95	Always the President with a sense of humor under any circumstances, unlike the Prime Minister I see for the first time so irritated, so insecure and so restless! Calm down, Mr. Mitsotakis. We're here, really, to help. We have said this tons in all the debates that have been held and in the public debate. In any case, I would like to tell you that I have absolutely nothing to do with Mr Tsipras in the way I am opposed, because in every response we have, in every criticism we have made, we have absolutely documented and realistic proposals. The problem, Prime Minister, is that as long as the time goes, you are more like Mr. Tsipras and SYRIZA. Every day - I have seen you - an "blue" SYRIZA is increasingly emerging, with a state-of-the-art perception and with all that we have experienced in previous years to repeat. I would remind you that the Greek people did not vote for you. In any case, I would remind you that the agreement that is absolutely necessary under these conditions of combat that we are giving to defend the lives of all of us, but also the economy, the prospect and recovery of our country, requires all self-criticism, Mr Mitsotakis. And you came here to tell us once again that you've done all too well and you haven't made any mistakes! It is all because of the coronary, Europe, the citizens, the others, the opposition, those who do not understand you! However, you have not made any mistakes at all. That's why, if you want, I'm more worried. I am concerned that the presence today of the Prime Minister has confirmed that he has not yet understood what the reality is or has chosen to present a virtual reality that only the media friendly in this place and nobody else. I am worried that even today he does not see that his unfortunate reference to the 'last mile' proves to be a very difficult concern for the Greek society that requires a plan, organisation, consultation and persuasion. We have not today seen that you are prepared to do so. I am concerned that it does not show, despite the enormous failure and the impasse that has led to its decisions so far, to understand that it now needs a change of direction. Mr. Mitsotakis, understand it! Change direction! As far as the National Health System is concerned, you are still invoking an increase in IF beds, which have been dramatically insufficient. Every day, you and your executives tell us that we have reached the deep red, that the beds are not enough. So, what are you celebrating on one side for the number? The number, in fact, is not real. You've even summed up surgery beds that can potentially be converted into ICUs and any other bed than any management and service of the Ministry can be used with a respirator as an ICU. One more, the other one. Also, it is evident that at the critical hour recruitment was made, which are only contractors who are not on the line of battle. We've got a problem. On your government, the permanent staff of the National Health System have been reduced by at least two thousand three hundred! The day before, I had a meeting with doctors and nurses from many hospitals all over the country, to have a first briefing directly about what is happening in our country. The situation in most regions of the country has reached no further. In Thessaloniki they are preparing to relive the drama of autumn, with 90% of the IF beds being occupied. In Kozani, the hospital has reached its limits, while for three days - listen to this - there was not a single anesthetic. If he needed intubation, there was no anesthesiologist to do it! In Jannah, seven doctors are invited to do seventy-seven days a month! They, as I said before, have not been paid for on-calls since July 2020. There are no other reserves in Achaea, while the cases remain high. You told us not to look at the picture at the moment, but the problem is that this is not a picture, it is tragic moments, it is tragic situations that Greek citizens live in and out of hospitals. You must finally understand that, because you seem to be away from reality or do not want to see it. As far as the tests are concerned, the evidence is absolutely revealing. We were third from the end in twenty-four countries that have provided data by 1 June 2020. And the question is: Good, until June 1, 2020, we were back. Have we changed strategy when we saw the second wave coming? Did we change strategy when the second wave came and had the suspicion that it was following a third one? Oh, no. Because on 31 January 2021 - a short time ago - we were seventh of the end between twenty-five European countries that have provided data. I should like to put these before you so that there are no doubts. [[At this point the President of the Movement of Change Mr. Fotini (Phot) Gennamata presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] Mr. Mitsotakis, and excellent and indisputable can't be because that costs the country. Ask to be properly informed of what is really happening. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned that Mr Mitsotakis does not understand that the measures taken do not create a prospect for the relaunch of the economy, especially for the small and medium-sized enterprises. It just keeps the head of the one in danger of drowning out of the water temporarily. It did not feel the need, if not apologise for leaving the banks unaccompanied by the resources of TEIX II and the Guarantee Fund to finance their big and good customers, to explain exactly what has been done after having given so much money but at the same time the image is so dramatic and the recession so great. Indeed, you have intervened with several billion euros as a sum of all measures and suspensions, as I told you before. But the recession is 32% higher than the European Union's average. We are the second or third country with the greatest recession. Have you wondered why? I should like to give you some information to understand it: eighteen thousand five hundred eighty-nine large businesses took EUR 5.3 billion in 2020, and four hundred and fifty thousand small businesses only got EUR 2.2 billion. That's why you don't get the money you're giving, because they're not going right to those who need it and they're not working. When they end up in deposits, they do not give oxygen and liquidity to the real economy and to those who need it. That is why I say to you 'change direction'. How else can we explain it to you? How much more substantiated? I say many times, on the basis of these facts, that the small and medium-sized enterprises have been consciously abandoned in their fate and are being pushed in at the same time as the Banking Code that you have legislated on. Incorporate, you say, the GFCF programme with a loan grant of up to eight months. But in order for this to work, implementation cannot be left uncontrollable to the banks, because we will have the same problems we have had up to now. And I wonder: Where do you think the small and medium-sized ones, who have been closed up all these months with a government order, will find the money to give the banks' sums and advances to enter the settlement? I am concerned that it is not sweating anyone's ear, that labour income has suffered severe reductions in 2020, which reached 30% for the majority of workers. And I don't say it. It's called GSEE's I.E.I.E.L.E.E.L.E.L.E.L.E.L.E.L.E.L.E.L.D. A sample and proof of your selective policy in favour of employers is the persistent refusal of the Ministry of Labour to declare the sectoral contracts for tourism and food. It is, however, even more unacceptable within them in crisis conditions to bring forward a bill for the circumvention of working hours and for the further deregulation of labour relations. I have already referred, Prime Minister, to the three hundred thousand long-term unemployed in the OAED, who so far have no support from the state. However, I will also give you other categories with which, unfortunately, we reach the five hundred thousand: seasonal workers, who have excluded them from the criteria, workers at tourist offices, workers at the airport, workers at the tourist buses and the'rent a car', workers at tax-free shops. Ladies and gentlemen, I am concerned that Mr Mitsotakis is trying to cultivate the illusion that for all these problems there is supposed to be a solution to the resources of the Recovery Fund with which he will cure any disease. Good news of the jump forward of the next decade, but the hard thing is when we see you stumbling every once and for all in some trouble of everyday life. And beyond your political choice to share resources with the few and strong, now don't tell me to start saying names and addresses. You know very well. And where should I start? The direct awards with all the procedures you're trying to do by way of derogation all the time? It's said by our parliamentary group, every day, it's racing here. To start with the vaccine platform contest you took back, why did you come out? Can I talk about the "voucher" of scientists? Can I just say what happens to immigration policy all the time? You want to open this conversation? And there's no one in here and out of here who doesn't know that there's no decision of this government that doesn't have the signature of the state of Maximos. If you don't know, look to see what's going on inside of Maximus and don't abuse me. Because things are extremely difficult, take some initiatives together with the other European countries that are preparing to claim more flexible procedures to support their economies, but also to increase the resources provided for in the programme. It's the most important thing we've got in front of us, and you need to lead. Already Mr. Draghi and Mr. McCron are preparing. Greece has every reason as the country with the biggest problems to take the lead in such an initiative. Do not suffice to say that the budgetary rules of the European Union will not apply until 2022. For, Prime Minister, our country will not be able to recover as it must, rebuild its economy and come out of this crisis if the policies of the Stability Pact and the conservative austerity policies in Europe do not change radically. On unfavorable conditions for primary surpluses over the coming years, not only will we undermine every effort but we will be in danger of reliving negative situations of the recent past. We have warned you, Mr Mitsotakis, that there is a risk of turning behind this gradual relaxation and liberalisation of restrictions. And that would be disastrous. I'm sure there's a matter of individual responsibility for each of us. But your government has the greatest responsibility for it. Because you have to effectively monitor the application of the rules in schools, in the means of transport and in the workplace, because in recent months there has been absolutely nothing. Are you ready to commit and take this responsibility? Because there were no controls over the last few years, Prime Minister. And of course, give you all the good example before you, avoiding unacceptable images of the recent past. And a comment on Mr. Tsipras. The problem of adequate delivery of vaccines and the serious management of the European Union and, of course, the government's lukewarm reaction is unacceptable to lead to supposedly radical proposals on the break-up of the single European management and the search for alternative markets. Beyond our ideological disagreement at first, are you aware of what would happen if the European Union said tomorrow morning 'the yokes are closed', 'they are liberating all the countries, going to find their luck' and 'to buy the vaccines they need'? You know what would happen to us? The latter would be finding vaccines in the market and at the highest prices. The problem would be the first to pay for it. As far as we are concerned, we will, in any case, continue to do our duty and say things with their name, with the mistakes and with regard to old age and omissions. We have a responsibility to do that. This role has been given to us by the Greek people with their vote. But we will continue at the same time to propose our own alternative that creates hope and optimism for the regeneration of Greece, a Greek with social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mrs. Gennamas, too. It is now Mr Alexis Tsipras, Chief of Staff of the Opposition and Chairman of the Parliamentary Group Coalition of the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Mitsotakis went up to Stepma for his denture and told us that we are all suffering from a negative 'institution'. I'm zeroed. Mrs. Genitals suffers from pillage. He put us on the edge. Don't put us near. Mr. Koutsubas suffers from negativity. Mr Velopoulos - he stole my usual charge from me - of populism. Mr. Varoufakis suffers from surrealism. Yes, sir. The only person who does not suffer and who has a positive 'great' is Mr Mitsotakis who has realism. He's a realist. But how can you be alone with everyone else in this Chamber and - I dare say - against common sense, against the average citizen, regardless of what he has voted on in the elections? That is something that should probably concern you and you should answer that. Mr. Mitsotakis, I'm telling you for the second time. It is not a crisis that you have actually brought to the country. Although there is often no more favourable treaty for a government - not for the country of course - than for managing a crisis that it has not created. And in the first phase of the pandemic this set you off with regard to your resonance on Greek society. How do you comment on your personal, political and governmental performances, the trust indicator recorded in all measurements? And, above all, how do you comment on what I told you that in the first period of the pandemic - why does it interest you to put everything together in comparison - we have all come out with a very positive figure? This positive sign you have managed to waste in just five months. For these last five months we have had a negative record, and above all we have a reality that is unirreversible. Mr Mitsotakis, it would really be much more appropriate, much smarter as a policy attitude on your part, to go out and say the same thing: we have gone beyond reality. To contact the Greek people that one of them tells him "in the middle", one say "outside", one say "white", one say "black" and all the time, say "white" or "white" to him, with the bolt you say it. I mean, very tough measures. You've come to the House to tell us to double and the fine to rehearse the economy. You should address these good citizens and tell them'my fellow citizens' since you like this address 'we have failed'. My fellow citizens were wrong. Perhaps we should have had another strategy at the outset, another plan, another model, a model with more serious epidemiological surveillance, with more serious case tracing." The University of Warrick, I was reading today, an investigation tells him that the wrong tracking of fifteen thousand positive cases leads within a week in twenty-five thousand new cases. So why don't you have the bravery to go out and talk, as Mrs Merkel did in Germany? And he won from it. It does not always come out to say "we succeeded, we succeeded, we succeeded". Regardless, if the weather outside is tickle or sunny, you don't say the weather is good. When the weather is good you say 'the weather is good'. But when it's raining down, you can't go out all the time and have the same tape. In any case, Mr Mitsotakis, I do not now need to make a macabre numerical. But if you want to see the reality, you have nothing but go for a walk - not protected, but a walk without protection - to see the real picture today in any public hospital you want. "First Theme" not "KONTRA": "Cream of agony", a nurse asking for a respirator for a thirty-year-old, in "Strast Sunday", "The shocking testimony to "KONTRA" of the son of the seventy-year-old who died waiting for an intensive treatment unit in "Amalia Fleming", "Cream of agony from a patient's family: Interlocked outside our mother in General Nice, is in danger of dying", Mrs. Pagan in "MEGA", who is not SYRIZA, says: "Advanced newspapers. We have an ITH outside the ITHs." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] So you come with this picture today, which you cannot hide. It doesn't hide when in every Greek family there's almost one incident. Can he hide? And, of course, the means can't hide it and show it. You're coming to tell us this isn't happening today, but four and a half years on SYRIZA? Is that where your hostility has arrived? So, the Greek people are stupid? He didn't know what was going on in SYRIZA and he doesn't see what's going on today? On SYRIZA - I said it another time, it makes no sense, but I will say it because I cannot let it fall down - in extremely difficult budgetary conditions, in budgetary suffocation, and we increased the budget for hospitals and built a hundred and thirty beds in intensive care units. From the 9th of July 2019 you took over, until the beginning of March 2020, when the pandemic came and not a single bed in an intensive care unit. The pandemic had to come to make two hundred and fifty all of them, and let go of creative accounting. However, let us also be aware of this, because it is also a matter of political opinion here. Didn't you electorally say that your view of the National Health System is public-private partnerships? They didn't get your supporters on radio stations and said we had to shut down any public hospitals, take down any of them, why are they all useless? How can you build a bed in an intensive care unit?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u98	Who said that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u99	Mr. Portasalte said that. Supporters, I didn't say you said that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u100	You said command!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u101	I said your supporters, listen to me. I said your supporters were talking about radio stations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u102	Don't interrupt.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u103	Your supporters. There are these, they are known. I didn't say you guys said to break down hospitals. I said that you in your programme were viewed as being that the National Health System is not walking. You have made us extremely critical of local health units, saying that it is a Soviet model and a Soviet type. You said the same in the 1980s in this Chamber when the National Health System came, it's a Soviet model. That's what you said and that's what you said, that's what you think. You're not with the National Health System. But the crucial thing is that here you are very far from reality. I have therefore opened up a crucial issue and said about vaccination: Ensure in every way and with every possible initiative in the European Union the relevant adequacy of vaccines. And now that you're telling us that we have an increased number of doses... [[Noise in the Chamber]] I didn't tell you to inoculate everyone. That's not what I told you. Why are you denying our opinion and our proposal? Listen to our proposal. I said: open up vaccination to other population groups, not just by age criteria and especially to so-called exposed workers. I said very specifically: you do not make a shield of immunity if you do not inoculate those who come in contact with hundreds of people every day, if you do not inoculate workers in supermarkets, if you do not inoculate workers in delivery, courier, if you do not inoculate teachers and teachers who will take our children to school tomorrow. They'll open the schools, just like they've closed! The students themselves in the classroom...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u104	Who should we leave outside, Your Honor? Should we leave out the tumors, the transplanters?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u105	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u106	Did I tell you to leave anyone out? Aren't you saying that from April onwards we will have a greater flow of vaccinations and adequate doses of vaccines? You know the number of vaccines, I don't know him. So I say to you that you cannot celebrate the course of vaccination so far in our country about 9% -10% of the working population, when 66% of the working population if you ask it will say 'Saint I will ever be vaccinated'. And this world will be on the front line of tourism, hotels, airports. This world is in the front line today in schools, professors, supermarkets. That's what we're telling you. Give the opportunity and the prospect of hope, the vaccination to these people, because that is not only fair but also proper health to create a shield.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u107	Don't talk to each other.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u108	You'll have the time to comment on them. I come to another issue crucial now. Mr Mitsotakis, every time or almost every time a view is put forward which he does not like, he does not render it politically, he disproves it. He tells me I'm lying. He's done the same now. No country, it says, does not bypass central vaccination procedures. Heavy words were what I said about Germany, and I would call Mrs Merkel, Chancellor to tell her what I'm saying, not at all, and she's misunderstood that she loves me so much. Nobody in the European Union dares to take the risk and open up the issue of bilateral agreements, and especially of Sputnik V, the Russian vaccine. And it's a big risk he told us.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u109	In addition to Hungary, Mr. Orban.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u110	Okay. When I spoke about Germany, he even stood up from his position shouting. I give you, Mr Mitsotakis, in the Minutes from the official page of the German Ministry of Health - come in today and look back - in German. I read you with translation, because I as you know I don't know German. I will, however, put it in German for you to know. I read: 'From the already approved PFIZER vaccines, the country has received over 60 million doses via the European Union. In addition to these at national level, 30 million doses have been guaranteed. From MODERNA only Germany takes fifty million doses and is further negotiated at national level and for more. So only cumulatively from the 'PFIZER' and the 'MODENA', Germany can receive for this year a hundred million instalments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u111	So, right, now he'll answer you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u112	That's right. Let's go down. You also told us that it is no one who is intellectual in Europe to open up a matter and discuss only the purchase of vaccines beyond the European framework and especially you mentioned the Russian Sputnik V vaccine. I will not go into the Chancellor Kurt of Austria, who - yesterday is the report - said that he is in the process of negotiating and there is a binding promise to deliver three hundred thousand doses of the vaccine in April, five hundred thousand in May and two hundred thousand in early June. Chancellor Kurts, like you are. [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] However, I tell you to see a post of ZDF, as you understand a valid news network, which reads: "In yesterday's German cabinet, 18 March, the Prime Minister of Bavaria, CSU - your similarity - "a rapid approval of the Sputnik V vaccine was introduced. Indeed, he warned not to wait for approval via the European Union, since contracts had been concluded with other vaccine manufacturing companies before their adoption". [[At this point, the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate of Stenography and Practice]] In the same spirit, the mayor of Berlin and him CDU, if I'm not mistaken...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u113	SPD.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u114	SPD, excuse me. Even better, Mrs. Gennamas, SPD. The mayor of Berlin in the same spirit urged us to seize the opportunity to receive the Sputnik V vaccines. So, if you'll excuse me, what kind of errand is it that we have? Against who? Those who alone see the need and rush to understand that this is not a matter of geopolitical conditions and balance. I am not - to answer Mrs Gennamas - in favour of the view that this should be done by each country separately, but here we are in the face of an unprecedented failure of the European Union. I, Mrs Gennimatas, am truly sad to see countries, Balkan countries - not all countries, are too important, but not as advanced as Greece - to have a double rate in the flow of vaccinations than Greece. And I'm saying that's what should be of interest to us in time. Since the beginning of the year I have raised this issue because it is a matter of literally life and death. And anyway, stop this bowling that I'm lying, that we don't know what we're saying. If you have another view, say that you have a different view, not that you come here and say, as you said again today, that I am a liar and a populist. So you're a liar, twice a liar, who comes here with no evidence, and you blame us. Documentate your opinion with evidence, not excruciate me against your political opponents. How much time do I have, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u115	Six minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u116	Thank you very much. I want to say a few words about the economy, because, in fact, the moments we live in are very critical. I have the appreciation - I have said so many times - that the government is not conscious of or is not conscious of the painful reality, of the difficult reality in the health crisis, so it does or has not - that will be worse - of the fact that the Greek economy today is extremely badly injured. The decline in the country in 2020 was 8.2%, the third worst in the euro area and above the average of the euro area that was 6.6%. The public debt has ejected, but the picture in the real economy is even sadder. In the private sector there was no substantial aid, only minimal allowances for workers and loans to businesses. You're celebrating for the focus. You gave an important allowance. I'm not gonna say it's pocket money. I will say that you have done well, and you have given it, even late, but perhaps you do not understand that this is important for a re-start, whenever it happens - which is delayed - but it is not important for survival, because at the present time 94% of our businesses in the country are small and there is fear and predictions of 'lucker' in one of three. I would like to ask you, Mr Mitsotakis, something in relation to the announcement you made about the focus. In these criteria, there is also a criterion, as a precondition for the limit of ten workers, why does this sound and read? If that is the case, it is obvious that there will be too many businesses, apart from those who most need the money. In other words, if there is such a limit, of the eighty thousand businesses to go to the thirty-four thousand, as it spreads out, there will be over forty-five thousand businesses. They will be the ones who need this money more. I would like an answer to that. However, the most critical thing is that you must understand, we must all understand that sustainable relaunching of the focus sector specifically, without converting the returnee back to a non-refundable person, without reducing VAT until they come out of the big difficulty, at least next year and without subsidisation of labour in the next period, so that we do not suddenly get back, when any support measures are taken, see again climbing unemployment to 25% by 26%, there cannot be. There can be no re-start on a sustainable basis. And most importantly, it's not just about focusing. It concerns all sectors of the market, in particular small and medium-sized enterprises. Debt adjustment created during the pandemic period. We were in difficult circumstances - we had just come out of the memorandum, but it was still difficult - with very strict supervision, without an escape clause that you have here today, and without such a low loan rate, and without the European Union being able to say 'do not make any surpluses, you do not have to, spend as much as you need', we made this arrangement on insurance contributions: the medium-sized 'cut haircut' of 40% to 60% and a hundred and twenty instalments. Can we not make this regulation on the corneals and relate to all small and medium-sized entrepreneurship, to take a breath, to be able to sustainably continue? Or is the plan - why do people say that half the companies are 'jobs' - to end the 'jobs'? Until yesterday was the backbone of the economy, you hit them back. It is now all of a sudden that there has been a problem and a 'zombie'. EUROSTAT is the one which shows how problematic the picture is. The workers in Greece - to go to the workers' sector too - say EUROSTAT has the third largest reduction in income, then the government's measures, not before. The third largest reduction in income in Europe! Low-wage workers have the second largest reduction in income in Europe. Do you think the next day in these contexts is a day that will be with a rose petal, that we will be ejected? You say 'Greece 2.0'. I, Hawaii 5-0, knew nothing about it. Greece 2.0 does not understand in these circumstances.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u117	You're a kid.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u118	I'm not a kid. I got it. You live in a reality that is furnished. And I'm afraid that while we have a lot of climbing road and the country needs a plan that leads to a way out, you are not in a position. But with your design and stepping up, you lead us to great adventures. As you do not feel the difficulties of pandemic, so do the size of the problem in the economy. It will not be a transitory consequence, ladies and gentlemen, and it needs a change of direction. We need to think outside the frames as well. Instead, I see the needle's stuck in the same. But the world is evolving. In every corner of the world, the reflection of even conservative governments moves around two topics: The first is fortification of future health crises, such as the one we are living, by strengthening national health systems, by investing in research and science and nature protection, in order to avoid the dangers posed by human activity itself. The second is a forward development strategy to cover the lost territory of the global recession. A strategy that will lead to new models of sustainable development, focusing on innovation, technology and respect for the environment. But all this is completely foreign to your perception. The great opportunity of the Recovery Fund is at risk of being lost by a government with - let me express - deep ideas and proven management incompetence. You rushed the day before yesterday to present your decisions on the fund. Your decisions! No consultation! The draft was in the hands of German MEPs, but not at the hands of Members of the Greek Parliament. And you finally didn't do any consultation and discussion. Not even a debate in this House will you, if I am not mistaken, next week, as you said at the outset.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u119	It's gonna be Tuesday.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u120	At Chiefs level, I mean.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u121	Immediately after.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u122	Are you coming and bringing, in our view, a project that is based - after all - on the Pissaridis report, namely an obsolete framework that has been implemented in Europe in the 1990s and 2000s, but where did it lead? In debt crisis, unemployment explosion and inequality explosion. Privatizations, even in health services, in insurance, and a hole in public finances and new risks to the insured. Clearing up small and medium-sized enterprises, i.e. 95% of Greek enterprises, as I said before, dismantling the labour market, tax evasion for a few, not everyone. In other words, your response to the new crisis is the recipe that led us to the previous crisis. And all this, in order to fruit up European funds, some, measured on the fingers of both hands, business groups and families. But so, there is no strong growth. It may be possible to create a level of profitability for these few and possibly - I will accept it - and some jobs, but not able to cover the big hacks and they will be poorly paid, flexible and insecure. Sustainable relaunching of the economy and inclusive growth, however, will not come that way. It will not come without the rescue of small and medium-sized enterprises, without the guarantee of the pandemic's debt, without any support and subsidies for work, without the reconstruction of the social state and public investment in education, research, social welfare, without a new ERC, as we have presented - yet to see your own proposals! - and without a serious plan to combat inequalities. Ladies and gentlemen, I am closing, Mr President - you do not have all of this. You do not have this plan, you do not have that view, you do not have this strategy. You may not be interested in any of this, and I think you can't hide it anymore. You can no longer hide it either in the field of pandemic or in the field of economy. You have lost the main weapon to combat a crisis which is the confidence of society and, in our opinion, this society itself, which will take care of some time - I hope very quickly - of covering the gap, today, with its intervention on all fronts of battle for life and survival, and tomorrow on the progressive relaunching of the place with a progressive government that needs the place to come out of this crisis, with society upright. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u123	We're going on with the secondarys. I will call on Mr Koutsouba, President of the Group of the Communist Party of Greece, to take the floor. I should like to inform you that the Recovery Plan has already been shared with the Members and the parties, that is, it has taken place this morning at the time we are talking about, and the debate that will take place first on Tuesday in here - in four committees, we have added the European Parliament - will be a hundred eighty Members who are entitled to be present either online or by living. So let's go to Mr. Koutsouba, as we said, for his second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u124	I was trying to explain to Mrs Gennimata, who left, she couldn't even hear the beginning of the speech. Because the first thing when I went up was that. And this sign here symbolizes World Day for the Sensitization of People for Autism. I say it for those who didn't hear it the first time. Mr Mitsotakis, yes, as far as the JRC is concerned, we are denying the realism of your own policy, which feeds with many profits a few monopolistic groups, the big capital, the few and, of course, leaves the Greek people with poverty. Just this one year of pandemic, which is unknown for how long it will trouble us yet, has come to shake your values, your data or better, what appears so many years as data and indisputably for the people. It came to scatter in the four winds the harmonious coexistence of public and private health systems, which are the timeless policy of all governments, whatever their name, that is, whether they were of the New Democracy or of either PASOK, or SYRIZA, and the many other small parties that supported them and supported them all these years, to give you a life-long breath and to disappear after that like the ordering stars. This year has come to highlight the harmful and parasitic nature of the private health business sector, which is ultimately based, it is rich in public deficits. It has come to highlight the need for a state-of-the-art, free health system, a state-of-the-art social policy medicine, which will serve only popular needs against the parasiticism of the patent and the drug - commodity. The pandemic has once again shaken the myth of the famous European solidarity. You told us that we would have vaccines because we are in the European Union and we finally have insufficient vaccines because we are in the European Union. And this is not a question of failure of the European Union, as Mr Tsipras said earlier, and today Mr Mitsotakis said. Unfortunately, it was and is a political choice of the European Union, because the vaccine as a commodity has become a tool of geopolitical competition of great interest. And it couldn't, as you know very well - regardless of what you're saying in here and not least what you're saying to the Greek people - be different. Those who dream more of the European Union than they are will wake up once again abruptly and sweaty. The pandemic eventually came to cleanse the sacred and loyals of your world, the capitalist world you serve, which focuses not on satisfying the people's, social needs, but on the project, the shielding of the profits of the few. This will be at the heart of all your policies the next day, when the pandemic will be intercepted, but the European Union will be here, it will be the big chapter, the interests, the political choices of those who want to load the broken crisis on the back of the people. The development, for which you are all cultivating false expectations to our people, is a development of the profits of the few and will, as before, step on the wild exploitation of many of the workers. It will not be a recovery of their income, rights and lives. Unfortunately, many times the answers to top questions are given through great tragedies. Along with the daily struggle for the protection of health, the rights and the income to be continued, it comes to the forefront and the need for a whole series of radical overthrows aimed at a new social organisation, which will focus on satisfying all modern needs, with the first of course the health, life and people. Invisible enemy is the virus. But capitalism itself, the system, is a very visible, visible enemy. And he's not cured, like the virus, except he's overthrown. This is a big case and we must all realize that, and especially the Greek people. Finally, Mr Mitsotakis, before going to "Greece 2.0", do you not have any more business with the loose ends of "Greece 1.0"? Your state owes newspapers to hospital doctors, owes their entry to heavy and unhealthy, owes compensation to flooders, such as those I visited yesterday in Evros villages next to Alexandroupolis, owes to earthquake patients. Last week I was in Thessaly. We are not talking, of course, about total anti-military, anti-military, anti-nuclear and other projects that you have in the unquestionable. Even in Greece the development of "5.0" is planned. You even owe school meals to thousands of students who deprive them. And it's your responsibility to solve the problem. Let us not go back to issues that we have raised in detail in our prototype for self-employed, small businessmen, especially for focusing, for all other categories and sectors. The list of owed has no end. That's what you call negatism. But these are concrete proposals, even proposals for legislation put forward by the JRC's parliamentary group and throwing them to the unclaimed or still in your drawers, or coming here and voting against them. At some point, however, the workers, the people, will decide to put them down and make the bill, and then you can be sure that they will get back not only the money they owe but they will do the same to their labors that are now stealing your system. I give you time for other speakers, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u125	Where do you give him? Make a donation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u126	To keep an example of mine, I would say!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u127	This recommendation is a good donation! After Mr. Koutsoubas, whom we warmly thank for keeping time with the above, we call on Mr. Velopoulos, President of the Greek Parliamentary Group, for his own second language. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u128	Thank you very much, Mr President. I'd like to report to the Prime Minister. He's gone, but I'll report because he attempted a poaching. He used the Prime Minister terms to devaluate political opponents. In my view this is called political cannibalism. I can't find another way. When you don't have any arguments, that is, you're evacuating insults and attempting anthropophatic politics. The Prime Minister knows no basic things, but in concepts and terms, and he is lacking and I am sad. I'm going to give him an example from the Greek language to understand what a word force he did. The word 'private' does not have a negative time in the catapult. In ancient times, however, it was a disgraceful term, as was the 'idiot' in English. I say this because he spoke of populism and referred to me personally. He doesn't know what populism means. The Prime Minister really doesn't know. According to the Cambridge dictionary, populism as a form of political ideology compares the interests and wishes of the people against the elite. So the Cambridge dictionary defines populism as a political idea and action aimed at representing the desires and needs of the ordinary people. That is why you have failed, Prime Minister, because you are confusing concepts and terms. Are you against populism? I understand that. That is why the measures you take are against the people, the oligarchy, the oligarchs and your friends and partners. Thank you, thank you, thank you! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And if you say so again, I will thank you again, because I serve only the people and not the fewer people. Let's go to the vaccines now, 'cause sometime we have to tell truths. You fooled by saying that we couldn't produce vaccines in Greece. The Prime Minister told Mr Tsipras, who is missing. I don't want to believe he's fugitive. Mrs Merkel would call, I imagine, to inform him that Germany is already looking for ways to get Sputnik or might have taken him to inform him that France is also looking for Sputnik. In any case, how did Serbia make a factory? It's a factory, announcing it earlier. The question that arises on my part is why he didn't talk about drugs at all. No political leader - and I missed my attention - spoke of the medicine. We're all talking about prevention. And we all know very well that when someone's in the hospital, she needs a medicine. There's no need for the vaccine, it's a medicine! Because Mr. Tsipras was sprayed by the Prime Minister of the country, a European country that took the vaccine, I inform him - despite any differences we may have in here - Hungary is also. Hungary received two million doses of Sputnik. Why is he lying in here? Slovakia, a small European state, took five hundred thousand or one million instalments, I don't know exactly. I'm telling the New Democracy. You say not to order vaccines from Russia so that we do not derogate from Europe. If the saving of the world, of the Greek people, of those who are at risk of their lives, is about to deviate from Europe, yes, you will. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Austria is now negotiating, Mr Tsipras, Sputnik. Kurts said so yesterday. And the best you didn't hear, Mr. Tsipras. Listen to it. You should have told him. Listen to it. Wait a minute, before you go. Merkel, McCrone, Putin discussed co-production of the vaccine. Makron's Elyze made an official announcement. So the official announcement is here. What Europe does the Prime Minister say to me? Where does it deviate from Europe, which deviates from Europe itself? Who are we mocking in here? And we said at least to be nostalgic, it's pandemic, to support you, not to make populism, as you mean, or not to criticize severely, but there's also a limit to lying or non-truth or justifying mistakes. Pick whatever you want. Stop cheating on the world. The Prime Minister told me nothing about 'NOVARTIS'. No party president has been mentioned. Is "NOVARTIS" taking part in a self test contest via another company? The names all the multinational companies do. I don't understand! He had to go out once and for all outside the competition in the country. The Prime Minister says that the Committee of Infectious Substances has ruled. So I challenge the Minister, that I challenge the Prime Minister to bring me the minutes that are never kept in committee and to make them public now. Let the committee say from its minutes - which are not kept practically - what it decides, since it wants us to speak the language of the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] They practically don't exist, do you know that? And no one complains. The committee's minutes do not last. They decide who and how? Am I right, Mr. Xanthi? They don't hold minutes in committee. I've asked for them many times. They don't. Why? He told the Prime Minister that the committee decided. They won't answer me. Because whenever it is convenient, the committee will decide, whenever it does not, whether it is a political decision. Well, that's not how it works. Don't even expect us to help you thrive on lying yours. I can't! I also thought today's conversation was about the economy. I was expecting the denology of both the other Presidents and the Prime Minister to talk about the economy. I heard a lecture from a medical conference and from the Prime Minister. Today Greece is looking for a cure to the pandemic of the economy that comes, we all said it, not a prime minister, a doctor for a coronary. Christ and Holy Mary, where we are! Economy. Now let us say that at some point we need to talk seriously about what you have achieved as governments and I am referring to all of you. I shall refer to you in the New Democracy. You've confused the roles. One is that the committee decides, the other is that you decide. Second, what have you and you achieved? You have been chasing Greeks for a year, incarcerated, imprisoned - you all agree to this - and the churches are closed. Climbing the churches! You made marches at the same time - some of you - and the people here let them do whatever they want. Now you're saying we won't do Easter. Now they decided not to do Easter! The churches will be closed again. Every twenty-five square meters will be metropolitans. What did you achieve as a New Democracy? You closed the market. Shops are running out. Illegal immigrants, however, in Omonia from below and in Jalysso and Thessaloniki, work their shops normally. No check. So what did you do? In Europe, no one has taken such a measure of lockdown, only in Greece for eight months strictly lockdown, universal closure. In Germany since December the story of the lockdown, the universal closure, began. Until then, it didn't apply. I'm saying that because the IMF just made a weird announcement. I don't know if you read it, Minister. It is a finding, a study that scary world uprisings are coming, not in Greece, all over Europe. The people are indignant worldwide from the inability of the political system - whatever political system - to find solutions that will prejudge freedom, democracy and health, not only health and antidemocracy. That's cut. What did you achieve in New Democracy? You got the police chasing the civilians for the masks. Is it possible for the police, who have to protect the citizen from crime on a daily basis, to hunt the citizen for the mask? The cops got angry. They made a white strike, you know that very well. But you've reached the point where the civilian no longer hates the cop. We have reached the point where the citizen hates the guardian of democracy, the security of citizens, the police officer. Good for you! Good for you! What did you achieve in New Democracy? You give 330m euros to the focus. You know it's all crumbs? Six hundred thousand workers. I'll tell you why the Prime Minister challenged us. Yes, Prime Minister, open the focus. Open it, the market will work. A lot of them will close three out of five. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] What have you and you achieved? You are after all the Greeks who disagree with you - all - on the subject of the vaccine. It's your view. You are also chasing Greeks who disagree with illegal immigrants. Hunting all of you. You're after them. Examples? Mr. Duroudus, the Eastern Aegean Police that you have carried from SYRIZA and the Republic of New Democracy, makes daily pleas against the Greeks. Hundreds of pleadings against Greeks! What did you do? You're suffering hunters of Greeks. And that's what you do every day. For sixty years Greece has been dying demographically, and we are not having a serious debate on the demographic issue, to speak seriously in here, to motivate Greeks to be born. I hope, Prime Minister, that you will be informed that populism, according to Cambridge, is a very good idea. I don't know which dictionary you read. I think you read it on Wikipedia, but it's okay. Tell you at least your consultants. Thank you again, though. Thank you. Yes, we are populists, because we serve the interests of the Greek people and not the oligarchs. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Let's actually go. Journals. Here's the big deal. First time since 1932, an unprecedented decline in the country's population this year. Greece's ending. Instead of discussing serious issues, we are sitting here for party reasons among ourselves in conflict. What did you do? I'll say it now. Forget the scandals. Lignade's story has been forgotten. And I was reading - that's why it bothered me very much - on a sixteen-page Council. Ladies and gentlemen, 'Lignadis paraphilos', 'phenophile','manager', 'with violating, anti-social supply support'. Where's the pediatrician? The will of the judges! That's it, Professor. That's the will of the judges. "Pacific," "adolescent," I don't understand that. The story's covered. We covered it. Why? Tell me why. What did you all achieve, SYRIZA, New Democracy and PASOK? Sixty years, not even a veto! And Austria for the vaccines threatened and vetoed! When will a veto put the Greek political system? When we lose half the Aegean, or when we lose Kastelorizo? What did you achieve all the parties? You've won defeat, you've gone bankrupt, memoirs. And now, friends and friends, you're here fighting with each other who's done the least of the harm. Prime Minister, I would be happy if, in any case, we would come here and say that you did the best for the place. I'd be very happy. But if you don't unleash and undo the advisors you have next to you and make scary mistakes to the ministers, of whom some make mistakes, you can't go anywhere. What did you do after sixty years of government? The impoverishment of the Greek people and their dependence on others, economic dependence, which means losing national sovereignty. When you are economically dependent on others, you have lost your national will, your national dignity, your national sovereignty. I will give some examples of those who are euro-learned, that is, they love the euro. You threatened. I remember my friend Adoni Georgiadis - he is my friend from a young child, politically we are opponents - to mourn for the euro that if we don't have euros, we will die in hunger. Is Britain coming out? The British will starve. Not only did the British die in hunger, but their economic indicators are much better, most of them inoculated and doing well. I would remind you that in 1999 the basic salary was 170,000 drachmas. In 2021 - twenty-two years - the basic salary today is 480 euros, or 160,000 drachmas. The cheese pie then made 110 drachmas and today makes 1,5 euros, 510 drachmas. Coffee was 300 drachmas and today 1,100 drachmas. The cigarettes 400 drachmas, today 4,5 euros, or 1,400 drachmas. I won't say anything more. I will say that all this shows that the wrong economic policy, the terrible mistakes you made in the economy, led to the lack of wealth production and at the same time to the poorening of the Greek. It is also you, Prime Minister, - unfortunately, I will inform you again now, and I hope you will do something - which instead of excellent ones, you choose worthless. Example: To get them to the Ministry of Public Order - I don't know, the Economou did the job - a priest, because they wanted a priest in the police, listen to what they did. They cut him in the mouth. The man had the best writing ever. I've got it here, his rating. Prime Minister, don't smile. When I have two candidates and one has a doctorate, and the other does not have one, and because in the mouth of one I put five and the other 15, and I take the one I put 15 monkeys in the mouth, then there is a perfect thing. I'll submit it to the Minutes. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. If you want to do merit, start from here or somewhere at last. So you are not, Prime Minister, the result of the circumstances. Stop that excuse with the pandemic, that it's the circumstances. It's not the circumstances. You are the result of your decisions and choices. You make wrong decisions and make wrong choices. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Because you listen to counsellors who make mistakes. And the Prime Minister has a distinction of responsibility, that the choices are his. Choose right scientists. So you have built a world - unfortunately, I will say it - all the fundamentalist parties, a world without values. Ladies and gentlemen, a world without values is a world of valuelessness. No value there are no people. We have to give values. Let's start from here. The Prime Minister cannot anoint Mr Tsipras in a sense that he is a surrealist one, a populist one, a zero-one one. That is not the case. You cannot, on the one hand, say to us, Prime Minister,'submit proposals for tourism' and, on the other, do nothing to help and disapprove your interlocutors. It is the wrong policy by a new politician and by age - I would say it like this - but also by the courtman. I didn't think so. It was wrong and ignorant - I would say - very bad for you especially who have a bourgeois perception and civil courtesy. Also - to close here - you've all ruined health. I remember the Minister of Health then, in 2011, in 2012, when he was hit and said, "To close hospitals." They closed hospitals and drove out doctors. Have we forgotten all this? We destroyed the economy. We ruined the future of our children. You want proof? Here's the proof: 'Third country Greece in mortality'. It's called a Hopkins University investigation. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Here, so you don't lie to the Greek people. Second demonstration from the BLOOMBERG: Pandemic Management Index. Greece is in the 40th place, among fifty three countries, together with Iran, worse than Pakistan and Nigeria. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Third proof from the University of Oxford: Greece has the strictest measures in the Western world, just the same cruelty as Venezuela. Here's the study and I'll testify to it in the Minutes. Fourth proof: former communist countries, Prime Minister, like Romania, have gone far beyond us. You know that, Prime Minister? We're outdated by the Romania of Chuchescu. Romania's GDP in 2016 was 160 billion. This year is 227 billion, Mr. Varoufakis, who is an economist. How did it work? It's very simple. Reduce taxation. He went to 3% of the tax. I don't have time to analyze it. I'll do it in another speech. Proof of fifth: "Sapio" the Greek political state. I will not say about loans from the political parties. We've become a humiliation international. Prime Minister, a whole page has come out of the European Union which tells which parties in Europe they owe. He's got the New Democracy first, after the PASOK. He's got SPD, he's got SYRIZA with 3 million. It's not much money. How, then, will those who went bankrupt themselves as a party save a country that was led to bankruptcy? That's not how it's saved. He wants new brains. He wants a new plan. He needs a new schedule. He wants a new solution, and this is the Greek solution. There's no other way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Sixth proof from the Agency for Transparency.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u129	Mr President, let's be brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u130	I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u131	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u132	Prime Minister, this is all we should be concerned about and convene a Council of Political Heads: we are the second most corrupt European country in accordance with the International Transparency Organisation. I'll submit it to the Minutes. We're just a place before Bulgaria, under Cuba, Malaysia, Romania. This is Greece. Is this Greece, which we all welcome? Honestly, I wonder sometimes. Here are our proposals. As I am not going to read them, I shall submit them, Prime Minister, since you have asked for them, both for tourism and for the economy. In conclusion, because the President is pressured on me as usual - he is a gargarian in pressure on the Greek Solution, he has something - I want to say this about what we need to do: instead of satisfying friends and fewer people, instead of making choices that move in the margins of the economy, instead of becoming 'urgent' consumers of European and other countries, we need to produce our own production, our own productive fabric. Let us copy what China did, which was a subcontractor twenty years ago in Western economies - it was making products for them - and now it copyed, copying, copying and paste, making products and producing wealth. We can do that, too. Erdogan, the fascist, attempted by weapon systems. We can do it, too. I have told him by Prime Minister a thousand times: 'TELEMACH' anti-drone. I've done it. I've said other things. I've said about the Greek defense systems, about ELVO, about the EAB. You don't listen to us, and I don't know why. We have to be smart. I also told you about the former communist countries. Here's Romania. But I'm going over it so the President won't push. But from now on, I will say two examples: livestock dies, feed is imported, corn, soybeans, an eight-year record, we have an increase of 70% in six months. That means food shortages, a threat, which means a record of realisation in these products, because we are importing feedingstuffs. For those who know about poultry farming and livestock farming, feed is expensive, as are machinery. The farmers and farmers cannot compete with others who have cheap food and cheap machinery. I should also like to mention the 'PITSOS', Prime Minister. I was expecting you - SYRIZA didn't do anything - something to do. One hundred and sixty jobs by decision of the German 'SIEMENS' - 'SIEMENS' again - shuts down the factory and goes to Turkey. I am not looking at the national issue, which is important to me. But I say this: this company violated its signature. BSH breached the agreements. You have to hunt her down to the end. The "PITSOS" in Greece must be left. The largest producer of laundry, ovens and - I don't know what else - not to close and leave Greece. Don't let the workers stay on the street! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The president hits behind for the time, and it's a psycho-corruption process. In conclusion, I have two pages, Mr President. Prime Minister, I'm going to invoke a great form of world history, Eisenhower, and I'm doing it on purpose. The leadership, Prime Minister, of a human being, is to assume responsibility when nothing goes wrong and to give credit when they go well to their own people, not to themselves. But things are going bad, Prime Minister. They go from bad to worse, society, economy, national issues. It's some of them. For the country's downside and your mistakes, some of them are to blame. Well, we don't. We suggest, we shout, you don't listen. The Greeks are listening and we are sure that the next elections will see the solution, the real solution, the Greek solution. That's the solution.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u133	Secondary speech by Mr Yiannis Varoufakis, President of the MERA25 Parliamentary Group, which was now a perfect sign of health compliance with the number of attendances. We must recognise that. Mr. Varoufakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, what you said is interesting. Our proposal, if I understand it correctly from your designation, for the recruitment of permanent staff to the ESS, is surrealism, because that was our proposal. Our proposal for haircuts for the late debts of small and medium-sized enterprises, which will not be able to pay them anyway, which have been affected by the pandemic, is surrealism. Reducing the above VAT from 23% - we said 15%, go to 18%, when Germany reduces it from 19% to 16%, Germany - for you it is surrealism. The abolition of tax advances, particularly small and medium-sized enterprises, which should never exist for you is surrealism. The capitalisation of the returnees we have proposed is surrealism, while going to give AEGEAN 200 million is not. The transfers on the basis of future tax exemptions, which you have already taken - we have no problem with imitation - and you called them coupons, are surrealism. The network - pan-Hellenic network, public network - mass testing centres, which will then become a vaccination centre that will remain a dowry as primary care for the National Health System, is surrealism as well. The idea that if we had such a network and could open up the retail trade, the schools, the universities much faster, without the physarmonica, you called that surrealism. Can I tell you what surrealism is? Double case logs are surrealism, Mr. Mitsotakis The students, who - I heard you before and I didn't believe in my ears - will test themselves and will sign and sign a statement, it's surrealism. Why don't you get them to level themselves, so they don't have to go to school? This is surrealism, Mr. Mitsotakis. Tax suspensions on people who cannot pay taxes, insurance funds, banks, this prolongation of debts that will never be paid, with the idea that "it's okay, who lives, who dies in the future", this is surrealism, Mr Mitsotakis. HARAKLIS, the secondary market for the "red" loans, which you think there is no chance, even in the trillion, that it works without having you go to Mr. Regling to get 12 billion euros on behalf of your friends, the predator funds, this is surrealism. Development with casino and mining, this is surrealism. These sms -- the story is over, Mr. Mitsotakis -- these are surrealism. We know very well that they no longer play a role and actually what they do is anger the world. Take it down! The night curfew, which has not worked - it is clear - is surrealism. That's enough! How much more realism can this country raise, Mr. Mitsotakis? I'm closing up with a message for your scholar, because you obviously didn't find this imaginable puny on negligence, surrealism and so on. Samuel Beckett said nothing is more realistic than nothing. So I'll tell you that with the bad phrases you've been using more and more people are wondering: How long will we be governed by nothing? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u135	So we have also closed the deadlines for today's sitting, and the trilogy of the President-in-Office and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr Mitsotakis, remains for the openness of today's sitting. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u136	I oppose Mr Varoufakis' philosophical approach to how nothing can rule. And if nothing, in any case, expresses 40% of the Greek people, I think your expression is offensive. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I should also remind you, Mr Varoufakis, why you misunderstood it a little, that surrealism was a major art current in the second and third decades of the twentieth century, which had as its main feature the release of one's imagination. So when I heard you show how things could have been and you referred to our ability, for example, to use antigen tests before they appeared on the market, this automatically came to my mind and I do not think that this was either unstable or insulting. From there on, I come to reply very briefly to a series of issues raised by the political leaders, starting with Mr Tsipras, who asked me whether the programme we announced yesterday to support the focus - EUR 330 million, I remind you, working capital in companies that have a turnover reduction - will be a cut based on the number of workers. The answer is no. It concerns all enterprises, but they must show that they have had a 30% reduction in turnover since 2020 in 2019. If they are new businesses and opened in 2020, they automatically fall under the programme. Because we are planning some future programs, which will indeed have some stepping stones and a cutter for other categories, for other sectors of the economy, you may refer to them, and I am particularly pleased that you are monitoring and planning for how to support other sectors of the economy. However, this programme does not have any cuts. Since there is a great debate in this Chamber that our economic policy is supposed to leave small and medium-sized enterprises and is concerned only with large businesses, I would ask you, in fact, to contact the focus industry and see how they have seen this programme. Because yesterday at least at the official meeting I had with the President of GATT, who was not from our area, I heard only positive comments, not only on this programme, but also on the overall grid of support, particularly for small and medium-sized enterprises. I would remind you that in the focus sector - to give just some indicative figures which I believe are worthy - a repayable advance took six out of seven companies. That is, of the seventy - six thousand businesses have received some kind of repayable advance of more than sixty - five thousand consortia. They were all obviously subject to the payroll and employers' contributions through the employment suspension programme. They may be subject to the GEOGRAPHICAL programme, they may be subject to the new programme to cover fixed costs, while their rent is also covered. All this cannot be described as negligible. That is why I believe that despite the major economic difficulties - and at the very first time we have said very sincerely that it is never possible for the state to make up for all the damage in an exogenous recession of 8%, which we have not caused with our own failures - and taking into account the magnitude of the recession and the possibility of supporting the real economy, this government has quickly moved and largely responded to expectations, especially of small and medium-sized entrepreneurship. This in no way means that the recovery of the next day will be automatic or that it will be implemented in some magical way. In the theory of "falconry" - which, after all, you had invoked a time when you were Prime Minister, but without it being implemented in practice - there will also be a need for significant support for the next day. And the pilot program of the focus right there tends. When the focus is opened - and my assessment, taking into account epidemiological data, is that the focus will be opened after Easter - to have prepared businessmen, bought raw materials so that they do not have a problem with working capital so that they can quickly open up and serve their customers again. And, of course, we will have the opportunity to have a debate on the Recovery and Resilience Fund. But, as I saw political leaders dedicating it with great ease, I would be very interested when we debate it - and in the first phase, it will be in Parliament at committee level next Tuesday - your members - and that applies to all the political leaders - to see the hundreds of seventy projects and the reforms that have been presented to the fund and to tell us what they agree with and to whom they disagree with. That's very simple. It's a simple exercise, because we've done all the work. Your crisis is only about whether you consider these interventions to be correct or not and, at any rate, to explain to us why the majority of the actions relating to the whole society relate only to the few and the 'elected'. Obviously some major investments will be implemented by large companies. However, a large part of the resources of the Recovery Fund are directed towards actions that will support all entrepreneurship in the country. They will support the world of work, draw up unemployed, further support the National Health System - it was wrong the numbers you presented about how much resources are channelled to the National Health System from the Recovery Fund - while supporting digital skills. All this leads to a substantial transformation of the Greek economy towards a greener and more digital direction. In any case, we have also given examples of writing, Mr Tsipras, in this direction. Gov.gr operates a year and has received very positive comments from citizens. With regard to the "green" transition, we made the decisions to take the difficult decision to close lignite power plants in Megalopolis and Ptolemaida and to present to the local society a structured transition plan in the post-lining era. We have a guarantee that we can support these policies that we are now coming and complement with significant resources from the Recovery and Resilience Fund. And like the NRP, Mrs Gennamas, it refers to a period that extends beyond a government's mandate, the same applies to the Recovery Fund. And I would beg that we should not deceive it, nor reduce its importance. We are talking about very important resources which are added to our patronage and which are able in turn to mobilise other private resources to cover what all the economists have always been, regardless of the ideological starting point, told us that it is the great problem of the Greek economy, which is the investment gap. We need investments to create well-paid jobs. This gap is therefore largely supplemented by the resources of the Recovery Fund. I would just like to say two words on the issue of vaccines. Look, the prioritisation of vaccinations has been done with medical criteria. If you mean that after all the groups of the population are covered, that is to say, over sixty who are and most vulnerable by definition, and high vulnerability and less fragility, we should discuss with the general population whether we should prioritise certain categories of workers, if you say that, I am prepared to have this debate with the parties, because at some point since May we will have many more vaccines and there will no longer be health reasons, but reasons that may have to do with the economy, the protection of certain categories of workers. I'm open to having this conversation. If, however, you mean that some of our fellow citizens must be promoted to the detriment of these categories - I do not think you mean that - then, obviously, there will be a disagreement, because first of all we must protect the most vulnerable to the virus. From May onwards, as we will be opening up to the general population, it is a debate that takes into account the priorities of the Greek economy, I believe we can do it and it would be good on this issue to obtain a cross-party consensus, because some will always say why the alpha category and not the beta. That makes sense, you understand that. Some will be suggested and some will be left behind. When we are able to obtain some cross-party consensus in this regard a little - very much for the accusations you have identified, I believe that it would be good and useful and I would be open to make this debate. Regarding the infamous vaccines of another origin, I welcome the correctness with which Mrs Gennamata said it would be wrong to break the European front. That's right, Mrs. Gennamas. That's right, and that's why we didn't do it. Which countries did it? That's an interesting one. It's not exactly like you told us. Germany has indeed bought vaccines, but not for now. I'm stressing it. He hasn't bought for now. The problem is now. It's the next three months. I assure you, since June, we will have more vaccines than we need. The problem is now that what will necessarily happen next. So the countries that have bought Sputnik are: Hungary, Mr Orban, first and best, without approval from the Coreper, the European Medicines Agency, without even approval from the domestic agency, but only with Russia's promise that the vaccine is working. The vaccine can work. I have no doubt that it is probably a good vaccine, but the Russians have not sent information to the European Medicines Agency to be approved. We have pushed Europe to approve Sputnik and Europe, if there is production capacity from Russia - I have a serious doubt that there is - and the Russian vaccine, and to share it, as it shares the rest of the vaccines. However, the Russians have not sent any information to the EMA and I do not suppose you want us to go on doing a vaccine that has not been approved by the European Medicines Agency. Unless in the depth of your mind - and I will close with this observation - there is an evil thought. The evil thought is that it could happen in Greece what was done in Slovakia, where my former Prime Minister attempted to buy the Sputnik vaccine, became a terrible government crisis and was forced to resign from his position. If that's what you have in mind, I'm afraid I won't do you the favor!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u137	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on an order before the day is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection, the Minister of Finance, Foreign Affairs and the Minister of Civil Protection have tabled a draft law on 2-4-2021: "Definition of the Protocol on Cooperation between the Hellenic Firehouse and the Cyprus Fire Service, in accordance with the Agreement of 4 June 2003 between the Ministry of Public Order of the Hellenic Republic and the Ministry of Justice and Public Order of the Republic of Cyprus on cooperation between the Firehouses of the two countries in matters of their competence". Furthermore, the Ministers for Health, Finance, Development and Investment, Foreign and State Affairs submitted a draft law on 2-4-2021: ‘Strengthening the Memorandum of Understanding between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Tunisia in the field of health’. They shall be referred to the competent Standing Committees. Then I announce that we have completed the pre-dated agenda for a debate, in accordance with Rule 143 of the Rules of Procedure, on the initiative of the President of the Parliamentary Group of the Change Movement, Mr Fotinis (Phot) Genuines at the level of parties, on the need for an effective national plan to address the pandemic and its effects on the economy. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-04-02-S1-commons.u138	With the consent of the House at 16.46 p.m. the sitting on Monday 5 April 2021 at 12 noon, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
