ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs has informed us by letter of the current questions we are discussing today. It's known. For the time economy, I don't have to mention them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u2	Before we begin, I would ask the ministers to come on time, because we are wasting valuable time, and today we have twenty questions. A general issue that emerged at the last two meetings of parliamentary scrutiny is that time is not being observed. We have said from now on that all the Vice-Presidents will be strict in keeping with the time, because the time is not coming, and at the end one says 'to make a set-aside', and the other says 'but the previous colleague spoke for so long'. These things can't be done. I would ask you very much to keep the time, especially when the MP's prototype is over and the Minister speaks and over and over and over and over his prototype, it gives the honourable Member an opportunity to say: "But the Minister spoke five minutes instead of three minutes. I want five minutes myself.' Today we have decided to hold strict time. We begin with the first 3580/26-1-2021 question of the circle of petitions - questions by MP SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Mr. Nikolaos Friends to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "About a year of the operation of distance learning, the Ministry of Education fails to provide access for all students to distance learning and has not prepared a study on learning results". The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs will answer Mr. Kerameos. Mr Philly, you have the floor for your prototype and I ask you to keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Your understanding, because the strictness of time begins now. Mr President, Minister, we are living a global originality in our country. In the pandemic, which is a global phenomenon, we have the longest - in time - the closure of schools, without any measures to reopen. Such is your policy, the abandonment of children and schools. You talk to numbers that distort reality. You are presenting thousands of hours of telecoms when the educational community helps parents, students, for major problems. I will testify to the pan-Hellenic research carried out under the responsibility of professors of the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, according to which televisual education remained re-tested, despite the heroic effort of teachers. The majority of teachers are without connection equipment, which were forced by their own money to buy the necessary resources. 42% of students had no computer and a large part - one in three - was attending lessons through the mobile phone. Teachers were forced to self-train, abandoned by the Ministry, while eight out of ten students and students declared little or no satisfaction and only 2% said happy. I'm filing the research data. But do you have any other evidence? Did you do some research on the I.A. and keep her undercover? Apparently not. We didn't. And yet you were warned by us in the House last year, as well as by the Children's Counsel in July. I will submit a document from the lawyer who sent you and your answer is ignored. Or, better, you responded in practice with your indifference in the setting-up of telecommunications. The day before you told us that before Easter you would start sharing tablets with the children they don't have. You lost two school years last year in March so far. Even if the program is complete, you've lost two school years. You did not use EUR 125 million from the state budget, while you could buy tablets. Money for direct assignments, however, about 800,000 euros so far you have found to do false propaganda for your work. So much money for publicity of a nonexistent project or other projects, Minister? The Prime Minister on 15 December in Parliament was committed to speeding up the supply of laptops to be distributed by January. Two months later you are doing propaganda by distributing 'will': 'I will... will...'. How many students have asked for support in digital media and how many requests have you satisfied? You can file data, numbers, schools, regions. How many computers did you deliver to schools and how were they bought? We need documents and evidence. We claim that you have not given a single euro from the state budget for this purpose. Sponsors, yeah. Are we right or not? We need evidence. You selected the "WEBEX" system with opacity. You strongly refuse to testify to the House, the three as you admitted, at least in three months' time, contracts you concluded. So, there's a pit in the face.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u4	Good, Mr. Philly. Finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u5	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u6	You've exceeded your time by more than 50%. We talked about it before. Please. We have said that we should set an example from today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u7	We had warned that in the way you implemented telecommunications there are issues of breaching personal data for teachers and students. In May, we submitted data on publicity of educational data in a way that violated the protection of their personal data. You answered us with lies. It has a personal dimension, Mr President, I am sorry. You spoke and I read from your answer, Minister: "Previously unprecedented fiasco complaint friend, without previous mockery of the National Representation. The Civic Opposition for each solution seeks a problem, for each problem seeks an unexistent enemy." I didn't answer you. But I trusted the Privacy Authority where I appealed. And a few days ago, after the beginning completed its investigation, it fully vindicates my complaint and proves you were lying. The data were not voluntarily recorded by teachers but at the request of the Ministry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u8	Come on, Mr. Philly. Please. You've been in double time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u9	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u10	How's it going to happen? Do you want to get out of your dentistry? You have time to develop them later. That's not how it works.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u11	May I?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u12	But that's not how it works. We made a deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u13	It's a question I've been waiting for two months to answer. Please, now. I think it's a social matter. It's not for a village. It's all for Greece, for all children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u14	It doesn't matter. All Members have the same rights. No one has more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u15	I'll be done. What measures have you taken since 24 February, as requested by the authority? I'm going to testify to the question of the principle.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u16	You're going to continue in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u17	I'll be right over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u18	But what are you doing? Five minutes you've arrived. Please, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u19	I'm done. You're interrupting me. Mr President, schools and universities remain closed and it is clear when they will open. We don't know what's going to happen with the universities, the clinics and the labs. You only opened the universities to camp at MATs. In special treatment schools, which have stayed open in the pandemic, you have taken no measures, no tests for students and teachers, nor have you given priority vaccinations to date. Vaccination begins in April and ends at the end of June. This year's going to school. In my dentistry I would like to respond to the other issues that have been raised in our question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, too, but it's not right. We said that. Please very much. We have said to keep time. We have 20 questions today. It can't be done. Then another colleague will come, perhaps Mr Delis - I am not saying he will - and he will say 'you have given Mr Philly six minutes'. Why shouldn't I have four minutes instead of two?" I'm talking about an example. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your prototype. This recommendation concerns you too. Please keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u21	Sure. Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, a lot of questions. Unfortunately, too many inaccuracies. Let us start with a basic assumption: nothing can replace the lifelong education process. But when, for objective reasons, lifelong learning is not possible, tele-television in Greece and around the world, it offers a valuable tool to continue the educational process. In our country it was conducted and conducted universal, modern telematics from the four years to the university. And in this respect, the contribution of teachers, students and their families was catalysts. Here, then, is a first point of view of things between us. You think we have - I read your words, Mr Phily - two rounds of distance-successful education. In addition to this being completely contradicted by the official information I will submit to you, we say that this cancels the enormous effort made by our teachers, our students, their families and despite the difficulties, despite the fatigue of the continuing pandemic, education has continued. So I come to your questions. Which bodies do you say are conducting research into the results of telematics? The Institute of Education Policy studies closely the educational and psychosocial implications of removal from lifelong learning and the application of distance learning to pupils, students and teachers and adopts relevant guidance for guidance from the educational community. Since the beginning of the crisis and the implementation of telecommunications, the IPP, Mr. Friend, has sent thousands of pages of material to schools, detailed instructions for material coverage and planning of the new school year as early as September, guidelines for individual courses in response to questions of teachers or after specific studies, guidelines before closing schools for Christmas, guidance for distance examinations in secondary education, recommendations for cutting down on specific material, detailed updates about three weeks ago for primary school. There is a new set of directives for high school and high school in the next few months, depending on the received and recorded electronics - for the first time it is electronically recorded, Mr Phile-material. In addition, the IMP, in collaboration with the NRP, has organised educational training seminars for psychologists, which were recruited this year in particular, on key theorists and practical issues related to the psychosocial support for COVID. We are watching very closely, Mr. Friends, and the learning and psychological results from the application of distance learning, and the IPE adapts the directions where needed. I now come to the participation of students in distance education and the famous distribution of portable electronic devices for which you said that not one, Mr Phile, has been given. I don't know where you've got your evidence. I'll give you the official evidence. To read for the Attica Region: In our schools of responsibility, the participation rate was 95% with 97%. Problems with the access of students to telecommunications either because of the network or because of the equipment were not presented. Second, western Attica in this respect: Since mid-November, an increased number of tablets and laptops have been distributed to students who are studying in Western Attica secondary education schools by donations from the Ministry of Education from the municipalities. There have been no obstacles to access to distance learning and so on. Eastern Attica: In our schools of competence there have been no particular problems in the education of pupils and any technical problems encountered are treated directly by both the school management and the IT department. I'm on my way. Regional Directorate of Attica: In cases of inability to provide telecommunications to those parents and guardians, the necessary equipment was provided to our address or to school units. C' Athens: Those who do not have the necessary technology are covered by loans from the schools in which they have been donated as follows: "Evgenidou Foundation", a company such as Tse, industry, Ministry of Education etc. Athens III has not received any written mention of deficiencies. But let's go elsewhere, not just in Athens. Central Greece: You said, Mr. Friend, we haven't even given a computer. However, here the regional directorate tells us that a thousand four hundred eighty-eight laptops have been given, seven hundred twenty-one fixed computers, eighty laptops, and so on. Since the beginning of the pandemic, more than a thousand four hundred tablet devices have been donated by the education department, and local authorities in schools in Central Greece. All this, Mr. Philly, where did they come from? It is what you say has not been given one. Let's go central Macedonia. Central Macedonia: Participation in telecommunications 95% - 98%, minimal or even individual problems. In cases where parental requests for support were submitted, every effort was made and they were finally very satisfied with electronic equipment, provided by various bodies, Ministry of Education, municipalities, private sponsorships, etc. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] Let's go to the Dodecanese, either by living or by tele-education, and follow the normal program. The proportion of participation in telecommunications amounts to almost 100%. The students requested assistance either due to a lack of digital equipment or for network issues were satisfied. These requests were met either by lending, donations, or by means of concrete resources from the school committees. I would like to say, therefore, that only some examples are given in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much. And I'm closing, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u22	Finish it, please. You've reached five and a half minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u23	Sure. And I come to the following: Are there any issues? Of course there are. You're referring to the Roma. The Roma issue is a more general issue. It is also about living education, and yes, we must all work together to limit school leakage. Are there any other problems? Of course there were difficulties, problems, connections. Of course there are. Here we are to improve them all the time. But don't level it all, Mr. Friend. Don't level them for our teachers, for our students, for their families, who are making a huge effort. I should like to return to the other questions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u24	Thank you. You've both exhausted your dentistry. Mr Philly, you have the floor, but please be very brief.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u25	Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u26	The appeal, Mr. Phile, is to everyone. It's not about you or the Minister, it's about everyone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u27	Good, Mr President, we have heard this and you know the importance of the matter. The Minister confirmed our complaints, confirmed the anxiety of students, teachers and parents. If it is of some value to the anguish of teachers for the Minister, where within two months he ate a door from the teachers and the issue of the service councils and the question of evaluation. It's war with the teachers, war with the children. Exams, exams, exams, not lessons, lessons, lessons. There's a war with the parents. This is the Minister, and it also appears in the polls that her staff are falling apart and the government's authority to education is falling apart. I asked, however, in particular: did the state budget give money? No donations, not local government, not sponsors, not NSAs. How much was given by the state budget? You've been back 125 million since the 2020 regular budget. How much was given? We heard confused things, nothing specific. I'm telling you that from the state budget there is little money, almost zero. That's the reality, with a steak. And the money you've earned and should have given tablets from Genarris, as the Prime Minister said here in the House, we're still waiting for them and we'll see when this year is over if they get it. Let me say one last thing. You said there's an EPA investigation. Is there a qualitative assessment? Here we have data from the research of the University of Thessaloniki, which tells why tele-instrument remains in our country. What does the EPA say? Will you insist on having a topic bank this year, to exterminate the children, to do school an examination centre? Will you insist to increase the promotional exams in high school this year? You're out of reality. You treat children as enemies. You treat teachers as enemies. You are facing the public school as a paradox of government policy. Mr President, I shall conclude. I repeat that the evidence you have said is unsubstantiated, is misleading. How much money did you give as a ministry as a government? I don't want you to tell me what the sponsors and the N.S.S.S.A. gave, but the Ministry's money. You gave money to propaganda for your work, not for the children. Mr President, there is a great deal to do with recruitment, with the appointments of teachers. This year approximately ten thousand teachers are leaving. We're gonna need more than sixty thousand substitutes just like the time story goes. In other words, 30% of teachers will be workers with flexible employment relationships, without basic educational conditions, without rights. We must go now, in June at the latest, to permanent appointments of fifteen thousand teachers, not five with a drop-off, one off, because people are leaving schools, schools are naked from teachers. When are the appointments to be made? When the schools open? Or don't you want to open the schools from the new school year? Second, and I'm ending with this...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u28	You're always done, but...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u29	I'm done right away, Mr. President. Look. Everyone now has experience of what the ministry didn't do. All it has done is to close schools - more than any other country in Europe has closed down the schools - and you open them without any measure, because masks 'climbs' and cucumbers - that is what you have done - is not a measure to protect children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Philly. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u31	I shall try, Mr President, despite the fact that Mr Philis has raised other issues. I'll see what I can do first. First of all, I start from this. It makes me an alpine impression that it deplores the NSRF in this way, that is more than seven thousand eight hundred devices through NSRF on Epirus, South Aegean, West Athens, East Attica, over eight thousand devices in western Greece, Ionian Islands....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u32	Budget tell us, it's state money.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u33	Why, Mr. Philly, don't you want the money from the NSRF?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u34	Mr. Philly, no one interrupted you. In any case, what you say is not written. They don't write what you're saying. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u35	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u36	But that is not the concept of parliamentary control. On the one hand we invoke the Rules of Procedure, and on the other hand we violate it. Go on, Minister. I'll keep the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u37	I'm on it again. For us, for the Government of New Democracy yes, the ESRB is an extremely valuable tool that we have given - I will say it again, Mr Phile, because you do not want to hear it - over seven thousand eight hundred devices in Epirus, South Aegean, West Athens, East Attica, eight thousand in western Greece, Ionian Islands, Peloponnese, West Attica, more than nine thousand in Crete, B' and III of Athens, etc. You ask your question - you did not raise it now, of course - if it is our intention to create a public infrastructure for telematics for the whole educational community. You ask for networking for two thousand simultaneous classes. I would remind you at this point that the system delivered to us by your government raised five hundred simultaneous users - not five hundred, five hundred simultaneous users! - from a student community that reaches six hundred thousand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u38	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u39	I'm asking. Why create...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u40	Mr. Philly, what is this? Do you think that's how you're impressing now? You ask the questions...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u41	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u42	Please read the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u43	...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u44	This is parliamentary control. You ask, the Minister is answering and the people are judging. Here you go, Minister, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u45	As for the lies, I must note that I have filed evidence and Mr. Friends has lodged nothing. I've filed certain particulars. From that point on, citizens judge. So I ask: why does the Census ask us to carry out such a huge public infrastructure in response to an emergency? Do you ask, Mr. Friend, for the permanentization of distance education? Are we asking for the abolition of living teaching and the replacement of our teachers from digital tools? Is that what you're asking? At some point you need to explain how you arrived from one end of Big Brother at the other end of permanent distance education. The answer, Mr Philly, is 'no', we do not intend to create such a huge, unnecessarily long-term public network. Otherwise we will come to capitalize the pandemic experience, the huge leap our teachers, our students, are taking throughout this pandemic. It has just been posted and the presentation by suppliers of a EUR 112 million programme from Europe - Mr Philly, do we not want this money? - for five hundred and sixty thousand young people and young people from four to twenty-four years old who will come and build together on this very important acquis of telecommunications. [[At this point the doorbell ends the speech time of the Minister is ringing.]] I now come to the issues of teleconferencing software. Mr Philly, I am very sorry because you systematically launch inaccurate public debate. You said that the free contract with 'CISCO' had not been given anywhere, that it had not been given at the outset. The Personal Data Protection Authority was given. I invited you at any time to come and see her. You're not here. The Personal Data Protection Authority, in its Opinion 4/2020, considered that modern distance learning was fully compatible with the State's basic mission to provide education and is not contrary to personal data protection legislation. It also considered that it was an appropriate measure to maintain the relationship between education and the student and necessary in the context of a health crisis. He made recommendations to improve the so-called DPIA, impact report. You say, again inaccurately, that we have not taken the measures. We've got it, Mr. Friend, we've filed it, we've posted it. Aren't you tracking the developments? All this has been done, Mr. Philly. An extensive impact report has been submitted and it has also been published on the Ministry's site. Furthermore, teleconferencing licences have now been passed on to a programme for teleconferencing licences which I think is familiar with. It is the work of the Ministry of Digital Governance and the "Information Society", without an extra burden on the public, to give more than a hundred thousand and fifty-four thousand licenses to our teachers, so that they can continue the uninterrupted use of digital tools, to build on this very important acquis of distance education. Because, yes, when the good of our schools open up, our teachers will be able to use these tools, discuss with each other in the school club, do other sessions. These 'Information Society' conventions have, of course, been made public, as foreseen in the KIMIDIS Convention and only last week they received the relevant approvals of the Court of Auditors.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u46	Please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u47	I shall conclude, Mr President. It's important. In addition to these contracts, the Ministry of Education has taken care of a stronger protection of user personal data than that provided for in the general terms of trade, as was the case during the free use of licences, although it was not necessary. But he did it even more to protect teachers and students. The relevant legal texts are also available on the Ministry of Education's website after notification of the Court's approval. The framework concerning the Ministry of Education, not the 'Information Society', is also here to be testified for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And I close with this, Mr. Friend: I say that all of this must be familiar with you. Do you know why I'm saying it? Because this programme, 'CISCO' II', which guarantees teleconferencing permits for public conferences, and which also includes 'CISCO' products, and which we are using today, do you know who and when it was signed? From the SYRIZA government three days before the election. So, as a opposition, you fight rabies for teleworking and 'CISCO' and as a government you bought teleconferencing licences and teleconferencing products 'CISCO'. And for the truth, here are the conventions signed by the SYRIZA Government with CISCO teleconferencing products. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u48	Thank you, too, Minister. We enter the debate of the eleventh under number 566/12-3-2021 a topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece. Yannis Delis to the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: “The Professional Schools of the Labour Force Agency (OAED)”. And Mr. Delis' timely question will be answered by the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Kerameos. I would ask both speakers once again to keep the time to the fullest extent possible. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u49	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in December last year your Government passed a law on vocational education, satisfying the demands of BSE and business groups. So this law, 4763- that was the number he took - came and multiplied the negative consequences on student education and work rights everywhere, throughout vocational education. In particular now, this law has caused - and rightly so - a wave of protests and racing actions by the students of OAED professional schools throughout the country, a wave that is growing up - and we saw it last Friday - with racing mobilisations throughout Greece. What, however, is what leads to some eight thousand students from OAS professional schools - we rightly say - and to be indignant and struggling? But the fact that this new law you voted on degrades their degree and schools from level 4 to level 3, while another obstacle to their studies was added, as in order to get this level 3 degree, they are obliged to provide the National Certification Organisation with a certificate of qualification and professional training as well. And as if not all of these negatives, which your Government has legislated for the students of vocational schools, in the same law you stipulate that they will be implemented this year. In other words, in the middle of the year you are changing the terms of study for those who are already studying. At the same time, according to complaints from students, for those who did not have time to find a business for the apprenticeship, no income is guaranteed, while some of those who had begun remain unpaid for many months, although their contracts are suspended by a government decision. So we ask you, Minister, we ask your Government: What measures will you take to ensure that the new law on the degradation of the degree does not apply to students already attending the OAED Professional Schools and, of course, to abolish the provision in question? What measures will you take to ensure income for all students of OAS professional schools and to pay immediately the students whose contracts are, by decision of the government, suspended? What measures will you take to open up all schools safely, maintain their infrastructure, modernise their laboratories, upgrade them in a few words? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your first speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u51	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr President. The law to which you refer was indeed recently passed by the House and established the National Training and Training System, which until first instance did not exist. There was no more growth in three distinct levels of the National Qualifications Framework, levels 3, 4 and 5. For the first time, therefore, the levels are defined, distinct, and the qualifications they certify are part of the National Qualifications Framework in accordance with the European Qualifications Framework. In this system, OAS professional schools were integrated into level 3 of the National Qualification Framework. What does that mean in practice? It means that the graduates of these schools will be able to carry out certification tests, organised by our national authority, EICP, and will now have a certified qualifications in place in the National and European Qualifications Framework, which will now allow them to work anywhere in the European Union with a recognised level of qualification, to be able to continue their training at an IEK or even further their studies, even at a university, if the potential of the law is exploited. In short, therefore, the graduates of the NGAA will have a recognised qualification with an impact on the labour market and prospects. I would remind you, Mr Delis, that since 1952, when the first professional schools were established, but also under successive laws, decrees and administrative acts, which identified their characteristics, these schools have always been classified in secondary mathematical education. However, their degree was never matched with a high-level graduation certificate 4. In L.4186/2013, where all qualification qualifications were mentioned, no reference is made at level 4 for OADS. The only reference at level 4 is in the 2016 EEA matching report. I would remind you that the EEAP is the national body for the development and operation of the National Qualifications Framework, but it is not a legislative, binding text and the report does not propose them as equal to the high school as they differ from the educational outlets, the length of study, the content of education. This continuing exemption from all educational reforms has created distortions, false dilemmas and has been a long-standing subject of micropolitical exploitation. The previous government did not proceed with the establishment of the National Qualifications Framework. In particular, for OAED's professional schools, the leadership of the Ministry of Education in 2016 had decided to shut down as of September 2017. An extension of life was subsequently granted until September 2020. So, Mr President, not only did we not degrade the OPS of the OAS and their studies, but we rescued them, restored them to life, upgraded them, providing their graduates with real solutions and prospects. I shall then return to my dentistry and to the individual issues that you raise in your question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Delis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u53	Of course, Minister, you have also received a letter of protest, as it is said, which has been sent to the Ministry dated 5-03-2021 from nineteen OAS professional schools. You know I listened very carefully and sincerely to you that I have had a secret hope that you will say something - because it did not go into the law - so that there would be a transitional arrangement so that this law would not apply to students, to those children who are now in the OAED and who have, of course, entered the OAED - as you know very well - with another regime. And suddenly in the middle of their school, you're changing the terms of study, so to speak. It's far beyond unfair. I'd expect at least that. And I think I have heard - if I have listened well - last Friday on television show, the OAS commander, say that this possibility of a transitional arrangement on this issue is being considered. All right, you've got the co-authorities, the Ministry of Education and the Ministry of Labour, get in touch. With regard to level 3 and level 4 and the fact that, as you said, these schools had never been valued - to say so - with secondary lyric education, it is far beyond inaccurate what you said, Minister, and I will prove it to you: The operation of vocational apprenticeship schools has so far been based on Law 3475/2006. Under this law, therefore, OAED's professional schools provided levels 3, yes, but these diplomas were equivalent, they were equivalent to the degrees of vocational education, since the course was within the higher secondary education cycle. It was in the same circle. It was precisely this parity, Minister, that led the National Qualification Agency in 2014, I think, and not in 2016, that you said, to decide to classify the diplomas of vocational schools at level 4 of the new national qualification framework. It was, indeed, an action that was approved by the European Commission and also included in the European framework of qualifications. You, with the law that you voted on in December, the titles - which will no longer be a degree, will only be said attestations - are regressing them to level 3 of the post-mutual schools of vocational training, and you say that you are giving them life and that you are renewing them not only, but also upgrading them. In fact, this downgrade, this downgrading from 4 to 3, is no coincidence that you distinguish it in the law in your placements then here in the House, not just for OAED Professional Schools, but for Level 3. Level 3 includes all vocational training schools. But there is also a continuity, Mr President, and it is very interesting. I think it's about tens of thousands of children, children of poor people's families. I'd ask for a little tolerance for what I'm going to say, one or two minutes. The Ministry of Education is therefore sending an implementing circular a few weeks ago, namely the General Secretariat of Vocational Education, Training and Lifelong Learning, to all IEKs on students' registration. In this circular it is stated that graduates of vocational schools from now on cannot be registered or classified into further six-month courses of study of the IEKs, the Institutes of Vocational Training, as with the recent law - and this is the case, by the law of December - Article 12 of the previous Law was abolished, which gave them the possibility and license to pursue a profession - certainly will not now be taken by this law - but, above all, also by the IEKs. This possibility, in fact, of enrolling those students from the OAED professional schools, which has existed so far, has been abolished and retrospectively for all those who received a degree from OAED's OPCWs since 2008. Their number is too big. We are talking about eighty thousand young people in total who suddenly see the way, if they want to go to IEK. Where these arrangements may lead, I think you can easily understand that: directly in the shrinking of OAS professional schools. Since their degree has been downgraded, since all this is done, since the road closes for both IKKs, then you understand that these schools do not have much future.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u54	Finish it, Mr. Delia.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u55	In any case, with this and with this in mind - and I will now really close, Mr President - the government shows that it is far too far away from the actual needs of the pupils. Instead of ensuring that schools operate all the security measures now in this situation, instead of making sure that you modernise the logistics infrastructure, have adequate, modern equipment, have permanent teachers, you pass a law on vocational training, a law - trick on the rights of workers, and especially of students and students to them, satisfying, as we have said, because this is your policy, the requirement of the Greek Industrialists Association and all the big businessmen for cheap, flexible, fresh and youth labour. We will wait in your dentext to say something at least to amend this provision which has been applied since this year to these children who have made a choice. You know, when they made the choice of those who are in the first and second years, they didn't know that this law was coming. If they knew, they might not.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u56	Come on, Mr. Delia, you've been in six and a half minutes. Thank you very much. Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u57	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Mr Delis, with all due respect, I invite you to bring us a piece of legislation, which says the OAED PERSON schools are at level 4. I invite you to bring legislation, because I do not know what legislation is. As I said before, the first regulation gave them life, because the previous government had anticipated the abolition of these schools. He had set a specific limit for the operation of these schools. It also provided for the possibility of obtaining a certified qualification in order to be able to work in the European Union as part of a recognized level of study. I therefore insist on what I said before, that not only did we not degrade the EPAs, but we did the opposite, we rescued them, we upgraded them, and so we provide the graduates with real solutions within and outside Greece. I come to two other issues, which you have raised in your question, which I consider to be important. You have asked about the compensation of practice, although, of course, you know very well that it does not fall within my competence. However, I think I have to tell you that special care has been taken by the OAS to pay the reward for apprentices who had an active apprenticeship contract for the period of validity of the previous suspension, including the suspension of the practical exercise. A special provision of law, initially by means of a legislative act and subsequently by Law No4684/2020, which provides for payment of the remuneration of apprentices who had been engaged in a apprenticeship contract for the period of validity of the temporary suspension of the life of the training process, including the suspension of the practical exercise. This ensures that the remuneration is paid. In this respect, this concerns all the actual salaries of apprentices, namely EUR 21.42 for every day that apprentices cannot provide their services because of the pandemic. It has been fully paid by the OAED - I say again - to the apprentices with an active apprenticeship contract of the previous school year for the periods of suspension of life. This procedure also applies, as the OAS has informed us, to a temporary suspension imposed from 9 November to date and the procedure for payment of the sums to the beneficiaries has been initiated. You also asked about the modernisation of the workshops. I have to say that here we fully agree that this is a crucial issue. Laboratories in these structures in general - and I will say - have a catalyst in our view. For this very reason, the Ministry of Education has tabled proposals that exceed EUR 100 million from the Recovery Fund for upgrading overall laboratory equipment for vocational education and training structures. I close with this, Mr Delis: The law, which we voted on, has a basic philosophy, that we want our young people to have alternatives, to have educational choices with outlets. And that is why we consider it very important that we see what needs our society has, what needs the market is, so that we can give our young children a degree of resistance, have a way out, not just a title, but give them a chance of their future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, too. We are now entering the first under No 553/11-32021 topical question of the second question of the Parliamentary Serres of the New Democracy, Anastasios (Tasos) Hatzidisiou, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The need to facilitate working parents and adult caregivers and caregivers to balance between occupational and family obligations". The State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs will respond, Mr Maria Syregella. Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the statistics show that modern women in Europe and Greece are significantly less involved in the labour market. Moreover, the unemployment rate for women is much higher than for men. We know, very well, that modern Greek women often fall victim to silent discrimination in the labour market, both because of their chances of becoming pregnant, as well as because of the increased responsibilities traditionally held at home, in the family. Yes, well, labour market inequalities have fallen. Nevertheless, traditional discrimination still remains. The difficulty of the balance between professional and family obligations in modern Greek clearly discourages it from pursuing a successful professional career. At the same time, the same balance between work and family concerns the modern father, who clearly wants to be involved more actively in bringing up his children and generally in the affairs of the house. So, then, modern father needs more free time to devote him to his family obligations. A corresponding problem is faced by those who have larger family members who are disabled or disabled. So, then, we also have difficulty in parents and adult relatives and caregivers, who also need more time, without jeopardizing their work because of their home obligations. Madam Minister, what kind of incentives and guarantees could be given to fathers to enable them to participate in the way they want to raise their children? In addition, is there a government planning for the balance between occupational and family obligations of parents and adult careers or OFIs there? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u60	Thank you too, Mr Hatzidis, and especially for keeping time. Ms Maria Syrengla, State Secretary for Labour and Social Affairs, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u61	Mr Papoutsis, in fact, reconciliation of work and private or family life is a key factor in the real promotion of gender equality and the welfare of the economy, because it also facilitates a fair distribution of care responsibilities between women and men, but also the equal participation of women in the labour market, which, as a country, we have a very big problem, because we have the highest unemployment in women. And during the pandemic, it was one of the issues discussed and the sixty-fifth session of the UN for women in the previous days. Women were indeed affected more and still affected during the pandemic. So the harmonisation of family and private and working life comes to the fore not only of our own policies, but, more generally, it is the priority of all of Europe and we hope globally. In the context of the priority axis for equal participation of women in the labour market, therefore, we are preparing the national action plan for equality with specific actions, which will have to do with the employees and the private sector that deserves greater importance. As far as private workers are concerned, therefore, the relevant provisions of the Staff Code on care permits have already been amended - there is already a special leave for civil servants who are spouses and parents with increased care needs - as well as for magistrates who are better placed to meet their family responsibilities. As far as private parents are concerned, in the next working bill we have already announced that the European Directive 1158/2019 on the balance between working life and private life will be incorporated into our national law. In its main points, the law will provide for a paid paternity leave which the father will receive at the birth of his child. At the moment, unfortunately, in our country it's only two days' leave taken by the father. It will be, at least ten and in the case of full-time Dads will be fourteen days. Parental leave will also be provided as an individual and intransigent right for each parent to involve both parents in bringing up their child. There will also be a licence for payrollers. It will also give parents and carers the right to make use of flexible working arrangements for a certain period of time, so as to facilitate the fulfilment of their family obligations. Most importantly, however, the job will be protected from dismissal for as long as they are using or because they have made or want to make use of these permits and facilities. Besides, it's very important, as you said, that the dads also participate. It is not only their obligation, it is also their right to take part in raising up their children and, at the same time, to have the attitude in general that there are no women's and men's jobs inside the house, there are no women's and men's studies in general, and that parents must have the division of family responsibilities at the same time. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Minister, and you for keeping time. Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President, and thank you very much, Minister. I am pleased about the initiatives you have taken. After all, let me say today that this is a sad day for us the Members of the Council of Europe who, our neighbour Turkey has left and the Istanbul Convention, in a fundamental text on women's rights for the protection of domestic violence. We are optimistic about the future with what you have said about the national action plan. In addition, in your course you have proved over the years that you have a particular knowledge of these issues. Indeed, the redefinition of legal permits for family reasons, the additional guarantees in their use and the provision of professional flexibility, especially for parents or caregivers or caregivers, are very useful and important tools. We need a balance between work and private life. The paternity leave will, indeed, give fathers the opportunity to stay home and enjoy their children, as they grow up. So I'm glad I heard it from you. It is also important for carers, people who devote much of their time to caring for relatives or disabled people. You will, therefore, apply this directive, as is the case with the 'Neighbourhood dads' action that you have launched, but also the equality initiatives that you will receive from the 'SHARE' programme. So we want all those tools to ensure an increase in women's employment. Minister, no one should be left out of the government's planning. We must admit that workers with family responsibilities need support, and that is not just for equality reasons. It is a sign of social sensitivity and support for the institution of the family, especially now that the demographic challenge is very important. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u64	Madam Secretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I should like to say that, in the government's priorities, equality issues are very high and when we talk about equality, we are talking about the five main priorities that the European Commission's strategic plan on equality, such as the issues of violence. With great regret and disappointment we saw Turkey coming out of the Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women, which is known as the Istanbul Convention, because there the Convention was signed in 2011 and indeed with a Presidential Decree without any discussion in Parliament, because the Convention in 2012 had been passed by the Turkish Parliament. In any case, and in the SHARE project, the question of equality in enterprises is one of the projects that we are currently implementing. With great interest we see that many companies are already implementing various programmes for harmonising family and working life, as well as the 'Neighbourhood Dades' programme which we hope will relaunch in the next few months and which is related to infants and baby care from six to two and a half years, because there we have seen that there is the biggest problem, since at the time many women leave their jobs or do the so-called 'interrupted career' and then, unfortunately, the social state does not go back to the labour market and therefore the real social state is that which will support parents in the first few months, in the first few years of their child's life. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u66	Ladies and gentlemen, let me inform you that the first question under number 552/11-3-2021 of the first cycle of the New Democracy MP, Christina Alexopoulou, to the Minister of National Defence, on the subject: "The firm financing of the Armed Forces - National Defence Fund - Defence Investment and Development Fund", as well as the fifth question under number 571/12-32021 of the second cycle of the MP B2' West Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arsenis to the Minister of National Defence, on "Direct release of forest land in the Heidar camps and concession 66 str. Block 15 in the municipality will not be discussed in consultation with the relevant Minister with the honourable Members. I also have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice has forwarded to the House, in accordance with Rule 86 of the Constitution and Law 3126/2003, the criminal liability of the ministers, as is true, of the 18-32021 penal lawsuit, concerning the late State Secretarys, first, economic, Theodoros Dollakis and, second, the State Secretary to the Prime Minister, Stylianos Petsa. We are now entering the next timely question. It is the sixth timely question under number 554/11-32021 in the second cycle of MP B1' North Athens, Nea Democrat Georgios Koumoutsakos, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The protective structures of women and advisory centres". And in this timely question will be answered by the State Secretary, Maria Syregella. Here, Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. The question of the protection of women who have been victims of violence is one of the most serious and sensitive social issues in our time and every democratic, modern state must provide opportunities for their protection, for their information and for their integration into society after all. Therefore, the role and mission of information centres and support centres for women who have been victims of violence is extremely critical. In our country there are hundreds of such centres, and that is good, as there are many housing structures for non-governmental organisations. The expenditure to cover this programme comes mainly from the NSRF, from the current NSRF, which, as you know, is essentially and typically over. I know the sensitivity of the Ministry and the government. But it is very important, on the one hand, to know what the accounts and results of all this network of protection centres are and what upgrades and improvements the government thinks. And especially I can tell you about the North of Athens that we only have one information centre located in Halandri, while we are talking about the country's second largest electoral district. In addition to the reforms needed and improvements, what do you intend to do in terms of exploiting the new NSRP 2021-2027? To close this first speech, Minister, at a time when parliamentary scrutiny is being held in the Greek Parliament for the protection of women - victims of violence, when the government - if you like - aims to take more steps forward, in neighbouring Turkey, jump back, jumping back. The Erdogan regime only decided on Saturday to leave the agreement unilaterally, the Istanbul Convention on the Protection of Women - Victims of Victims of Violence. And that's what he does - take care of the time! - a few days after the whole planet celebrated Women's Day and the protection of women, and only a few 24 hours before the European Council, which will deal with Europe-Turkey relations. At the same time, his government partner, Mr Bahceli, the extreme nationalist party of the Grey Wolves, says that they did this because the provisions of the Istanbul Agreement do not match Turkey's traditions. Madam Minister, I raise this matter because it is topical and why we are, as I said, only a few 24 hours before the summit. I hope that this development, which is so negative, which involves a fundamental human right, at the heart of the values of the European Union, but also the ban on the Kurdish party a little while ago, are two developments which should be taken into account by the European Union, even a few 24 hours before the European Council. I believe that Mr Borrell has time to make the necessary adjustments to the report he will present to the Prime Ministers of the Member States of a community of democratic countries, of values which are at the core of the protection of human rights and of course of women.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u69	The Council of Europe Convention on the Prevention and Combating of Violence against Women, known as the Istanbul Convention, is the law of our country and we as the General Secretariat for Demographic, Family and Gender Equality, have the part of monitoring, implementing and coordinating the bodies for the actions resulting from this Convention. The necessary information and awareness campaign was, for our part, carried out over the past period because we knew that domestic violence was not just due to the pandemic and during the confinement to the home, but also to the general public. This violence was before and simply became even more intense during the pandemic. For this reason, with a very large campaign, which took place on the part of the government, with "We stay at home, but we do not remain silent", we tried to make known the network of general secretariat structures even in the most distant village of the country, so that women, as well as third persons, the friend, friend, neighbor, neighbor, the broader family environment that we are here to support these women together with their minor children. In fact, at the General Secretariat, there is the '15900' line, which is twenty-fourth-fourth-fourth. In this line there are consultative, psychological and social support from specialized scientists and through interpretation are served also by pharmaco-speaking women. The line is also supported by e-mail. In fact, in cooperation with mobile telephony companies at the request of two mobile telephony companies, it does not have to pay a woman or a third person when calling on the line, i.e. the call is free and in one company the call is at a civil charge. In addition, we have the forty-three advisory centres, where there are psychologists, social workers, legal support and work advice. In fact, legal support is independent of women's income criteria, because we know that in many cases there is economic violence and it is also in cooperation with local lawyers. Finally, there are hospitality guesthouses. There their women and children can be hosted for a very long time. At the same time, however, we were not only there, because the most important thing, as we have seen from the evidence, is that the vast majority of women who are addressing us, either in the advisory centres or in the line, are women who are secondary, higher and higher education and who are at the same time unemployed. So, in cooperation with the OAED, we reasoned that these women should take the lead in programmes to find work. Because important to stand on their feet is clearly the hostel where they can stay for a while, but the most important thing is to find work to raise their children with dignity. [[At this point, the ending bell of the speaking time of the Mrs. Secretary is ringing.]] When we took over, we were already aware that this programme, which is through the ESDP, was ending in November 2020. Nevertheless, we started for the first time and there was an extension of the programme by the end of 2023, and indeed all this extension was six months ago. We have ensured, in other words, that the programme is not extended lately, as was the case in the past, and that there are major problems with the remuneration of officials. At the same time, we have tabled a study so that it begins to move into the ordinary budget, because that is the value of a European programme. This programme was launched in 2009, was then integrated into the NSRF 2007-2013 and went from all governments. However, the most important thing is that at some point this programme will be over, and the question is how it will gradually go into the ordinary budget, whether the municipalities or the Secretariat-General. We have already anticipated a study on how this will be done, of course, as well as on the '19500' line. We have also made progress in upgrading the provision of network services and through new computers and media so that sessions with women can be held not only by living, but also by internet, via Skype. In addition, we have done synergies with the Greek Medical Association and with the "Smiling of the Child" and for this entire period we have special accommodations that offer us free of charge the Hotel Chamber of Greece until the exams of these women are completed, not only because of COVID, but also because of the operating regulations, so that they can enter the hostel or go anywhere else they want. I think that for the first time, cooperation between public bodies and between the bodies of the 'civil society' has worked perfectly well, but also in the private sector, and in any case we have responded very successfully, which is not just me saying. Greece has referred, as a good example, to the United Nations, by the Secretary-General, Mr Guterres, in the ten countries of the European Union, where things have actually been done to prevent and tackle violence against women during the pandemic, but also by the EIG, and at the same time by the European Commission, on a number of issues that have put Greece among the countries that have implemented good practices to deal with these issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Kumucako, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, it is clear that the Minister's answer was complete and substantial. I was pleased that there is a full perception not only of what is now happening, but also of what is to be done next. I was also very pleased to see the unequivocal way in which the Minister raised the issue of Turkey's departure from the Istanbul Convention. He made a very clear position, which he had done before in the press, as has the Ministry of Foreign Affairs. I hope that these interventions, the Greek interventions through the Greek Parliament and the Foreign Minister will reach Brussels and join with the reactions of the other Member States for this very sad development a few days before the summit. I hope, in fact, that there in the 'Brussels office' they are listening to the messages that come from domestic developments in Turkey. I hope that the spirit of Churchill, rather than Chaberleyn, will be stronger in today's 'erdoggan' Turkey. I close, Minister, by saying that we encourage you to continue the good work you are doing, because there is indeed sensitivity and programming. You will only allow me to convey a request. I told you before that in the North of Athens there is only one information and support centre for women who have been victims of violence and that is in Halandri. As we speak of a region of millions, I would ask you very much to consider and put in your design the creation, at least, of another centre in this area. Money is not much, but also semantic and it will essentially be another step in the right direction of politics, which your Ministry and you personally exercise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr. Kumucako. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u73	Very soon, I will say about the advisory centre, because in the North, indeed, there is only one, that we will come to the point of looking into it, because at the moment the programme is being extended for the current network of structures. I have to discuss it, see it and at the same time take 'ok' from the European Commission and specifically from the Directorate-General for Social Affairs, stressing that there is only one advisory centre in the North. In any case, however, the mayor - or the mayor - who undertakes to move on to the programme should know that this will sometimes go through the regular budget and will have to make a sustainability report, because we all know very well that the European programme gives for a long time an extension to build the network or any network, but then this should be part of national policy and go through the country's budget. So in any case this sustainability report must be carried out, which will say that once the network is finished it must keep the network and then this advisory centre.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. Now we have three topical questions, to which the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs is responsible, Mr Constantine Hatzidakis, who, however, informs the parliamentary committee of European and social affairs. Therefore, we will be interrupting for five minutes in order to warn the Minister, much more since the honourable Members are not in the Chamber. So we're interrupting for five minutes. I would also ask the Minister and the honourable Members to come to the Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting is continuing. We are now entering the fourth with number 561/12-3-2021 topical question by MP B3' South Athens of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The working conditions of working distributors". The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Mr Kattotis, you have the floor. We have said at the outset that we will have to respect the time with a little tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President, for the tolerance in advance. In pandemic conditions and restrictive measures, demand for relevant distribution services has been launched. Large investment groups invest in the creation of distribution companies such as e-food, 'WOLT', 'BOX' and others. The orders they deliver do not come from one, but from a whole series of shops, with which their employer maintains a contract. The 'zones' in which workers are constantly moving 'open', distances are expanded and running grows. Distributors are not recruited under a contract of conditional employment but are employed as partners under an independent contract. They are paid by a service document (formerly acquisition title) and are not insured by their employer, but are regarded as freelance professionals, with all that implies for their insurance cover, but also for their protection in the event of an accident at work. The vast majority of workers are forced to work with their own machine, as few companies provide company vehicles are. Expenditure on maintenance, repair of any damage, gasoline shall be transferred to their own backs. The most fortunate are receiving the 15% payroll benefit. There are employers, who attempt to impose the costs on the tips of customers. Corporate machines are often unconscious, becoming dangerous for their drivers. The appropriate means of personal protection - helmet, gloves, jackets - and not company advertising, Minister, are missing. The usual practice of employers is to give a day off instead of two weeks, to sign contracts with four hours or six hours, and to impose on distributors eight and ten hours' work, without pay for overtime, of course. They also impose clean-up work on workers, bucketing, unloading supplies, filling up refrigerators, and even making coffee for customers. The recent pictures of workers working on the motorcycle on the days of snowfall, moving on streets - pavements, in conditions of high slipping and low temperatures, even carrying the dicyclop to continue distribution revealed the miserable working conditions, ergonomic pressure and arbitraryness. The specialty of the distributor is increasingly being transformed into synonymous with intensification and work - tire. The list of dead dealers is growing, Minister. The majority are young people who work under fierce conditions for a lukewarm piece. Accidents are countless during work. The government is responsible for these working conditions, for accidents and deaths. The total lack of protection and security measures, the pressure for quick delivery of orders in any weather treaty, with a timescale, no matter what this means to the safety of workers, but also to the rest of the on the road, the abolition of collective labour agreements, have degraded and continued to degrade any health and safety control mechanisms, making it easier for employers. Questions are in particular: What immediate measures will you take as a government to recruit permanent staff in these companies, through collective agreements and increases in wages, eight-hour, five-hour, and brakes in endless overtime, limited working radius, banning working in extreme weather conditions, as well as in other occupations, incorporation into heavy and unhealthy for all workers in courier transport, safeguarding health and safety measures for distributors with equipment, machinery and maintenance and fuels under the responsibility of employers, repeated COVID tests -19, disinfections in vehicles and workplaces to prevent pandemics?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr Katsotis. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u78	Mr President, I would like to begin my position by stating our absolute respect, as a government and as a Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs for all workers, of course, but especially for this category of workers in courier transport and the distribution of goods. I note this because the services they provide are twice as important for a year because of the pandemic. They support households, support consumers, support businesses in extremely difficult conditions for everyone, but also for them even more. Improving the health and safety conditions and the working conditions of these workers is therefore a priority for the government, as the Prime Minister himself stated in an election. Of course, I must point out that there are already some measures which are designed to protect workers in this category. A fundamental feature of the framework is the sole responsibility of the employer, who is obliged to ensure the safety and health of workers in all aspects of work, to use the technical safety services and, where appropriate, a doctor of work and to provide appropriate means of personal protection. For distributors in particular, the provisions of Article 56 of Law 4611/2019 concerning the protection of workers from risks arising in the distribution and transport of goods and articles have so far been applicable. The employer is obliged to take all measures to ensure that vehicles are properly adapted and maintained, to provide workers with appropriate protection equipment - a protective helmet, coats suitable for the protection of the rider, waterproof protection when raining, etc. - measures not entail a financial burden for workers, etc. That's what the law describes. The state's obligation is to apply the law and better - if you want - and the law. What I would like to tell you in my first place is that, following this, checks are carried out by the APRC, the inspectors' body, to keep the safety and health protection measures provided for, but also undeclared work. Attributes in the two-month period of January - February 2021 were made by the Regional Directorates for Labour Relations Inspection of the SEA at a total of eight hundred sixty-fifths five audits and concerned the terms of work of two thousand fourscore seventy-seven-seven-six workers as distributors. The checks were carried out taking into account the history of the individual sectors and activities employing distributors. The audit revealed sixty-six infringements of the provisions of labour law relating to the non-payment of the additional monthly compensation for the use and maintenance of vehicles. The relevant administrative fines have already been imposed. Fines were also imposed in some cases where distributors were found to be undeclared. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I have to interrupt here because I have already exceeded time. I'll come back to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Minister. Mr Katsotis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you know - I imagine - that on 31 March the workers, distributors, supplyers in particular, demand their requests with mobilisation that they have already decided. They are requests, concerning the conditions of pay and work, wages of such a kind as to enable them to live a decent life, but in particular safety at work. It is well known - and we have all lived through it, Mr Minister, like you - that the working conditions of these workers, particularly at times such as that which do not permit work. There are measures for other professions where more than 40 degrees of work is forbidden or work is forbidden when snowfall is present, etc. So here you have taken no measures. You didn't ban the delivery on that day. You have not come out here to say that the delivery is forbidden today, on a day when the workers were dragging the machine in order to make the distribution. Is that possible? And you say you respect and care about this world? Is that respect? Should the employer force them to work in such times as this and you simply say'respect it'? What are the health and safety conditions you are ensuring for them? What are the checks carried out? What are these tools to have, the costumes, the helmet, etc., that are suitable for their safety? I also said in my prototype that most of them are advertising companies, which have nothing to do with the safety standards of these workers. There are the demands that workers themselves make. What's their motion beam? Can one move across Athens? Shouldn't there be something like that? The workers themselves require a motion radius. Can't they go 50 kilometers to deliver, then turn around, again the same time and time? Are you going to have to stop, abolish business timescales? What does a timer mean, Minister? It means intensification. It means an accident, an accident, death. There are few deaths that we have so far because of this state of work, the intensification of employers. In other words, quick times, more orders. These are issues for which you have a responsibility to take action. If you want to investigate. I am not saying that the measures that we propose are the main measures. Employees say it to us. They tell it to you through us, through the conversation. You must sit down and see how these workers return home safe and sound. How these workers will not be victims of this intensive work and of the conditions imposed by employers so far on courier, transmission and delivery. So because the answers so far are not the ones that should be, Minister, we would like in your dentext to tell us that they are in the collective food contracts. Will you make the collective food contract compulsory so that they are at least paid under the terms of the contract? So far you haven't done it. So, then, these workers are on the air. Any employers who want to apply it, who do not want to, do not apply it. We are waiting for your answer to these questions. Not just us, but the workers who are listening to us right now, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u81	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u82	Mr Katsotis, you are right that we need to have increased attention to this sector, not only because of the pandemic and those involved in this sector, but also because it is a relatively new profession in Greece and therefore it needs all the relevant arrangements based on those in force in other countries of Europe. I have referred to the regulations in force. I referred to the APRC audits. I will tell you that on February 16 with the bad weather "Medea" we immediately recommended that employers grant distributors appropriate protective equipment: helmets, gloves, waterproof protective suits, etc. I will also tell you that in terms of regulating labour relations and working conditions there is a collective agreement which is in force and in which provision is made for distributors. It is the collective labour agreement for staff of all kinds of tourist and food shops throughout the country. You know who he's signed up for. This collective agreement expired on 21 February and is now in force for the three-month extension, as provided for in the legislation. The government encourages both sides, employers and workers to proceed as soon as possible to a new collective agreement. I hope that this will come true. I would also like to add that in relation to a number of insurance issues in these sectors, as early as November 2020, the Ministry sent the relevant ECA circular to answer some questions and address the insurance issues of these people. The main thing I have to say, however, is that with the working draft law, which will soon be presented in public consultation, we are trying, in the light of good European practice, to deal with issues with the collaborative platforms and the distributors in collaborative platforms, in a way that, without prejudice to the competitiveness of businesses, will protect workers. There will therefore be clear predictions for both union in this area and for the other rights of workers, with emphasis on health and safety, because these workers must in no way feel unprotected from the state. Our aim is to have equal protection, the same protection for workers in these very areas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much. We continue with the fourth with No 563/12-32021 topical question of the second question of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The redundancies of tourist bus drivers in Crete". The Minister of Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr. Hatzidakis. Mr. Synatiakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u84	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, this is the second time we have been discussing the same issue in a few months, namely the unequal treatment of tourist bus drivers and the privileged treatment of agents. Recently, two major businesses in Crete, Union and CETAN HOLIDAYS, which operate in the tourist bus sector, fired a total of thirty-seven drivers, nineteen and seventeen respectively, on the pretext of reducing the fleet they operate. With the coronary pandemic, this sector has been seriously affected and, of course, the seasonal workers in total. Approximately five hundred guides to tourist buses throughout Crete, face dramatic deterioration in their working relations. They've been doomed to live without income in the past year. Already since last season, workers on tourist buses have been in a dead end, with employers refusing to sign a local sectoral collective agreement, referring them to the National General Agreement, so that workers are at risk of losing them - and losing them - a number of rights and conquests. At this time, of course, these workers have fought a very big battle for four and a half months. Indeed, it was a titanic strike battle to sign the local branch labour contract. The employers' response, and in particular the two major companies, was to go ahead with the vengeance of workers who participated in this struggle. If you wanted, as a government, to be able, by your own intervention, in compliance with your own laws or by an act of legislation, as you used to do for the big and powerful, to dismiss the redundancies, that is, to oblige employers to avoid a complete dismantling of industrial relations in the industry. And it is not even what I say to you, the same legislation. It's a challenge! There is Law 1836/1989, paragraph 38, concerning the reintegration of tourist bus drivers. This law says that the businesses of tourist buses, who have hired and employed drivers in their buses for the tourist season, have been obliged to hire the same drivers back in the next tourist season, since they started. Employers, therefore, have depopulated. There's a worker who works thirty-two years, another fifteen, another twenty. They're fired, and they don't even pay them compensation, plus others. What's going on here? It is clear that there will be no redundancies for a worker. That is why we ask you, Minister, for the second time, and you must now give us a clear answer. It is not possible to tell us here, 'I don't know, I didn't see, I'll look at it.' You must have come prepared to give a clear answer. And the questions are two. Firstly, what will you do in order to immediately withdraw all employers' avengers' avengers' dismissals against tourist bus drivers and, secondly, to reinstate all drivers without conditions and asterisks, with all their pensions, wages and labour rights?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u85	Thank you very much, Mr Symphony. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u86	Mr Colleagues, I must tell you that you are asking me for the first time, without meaning that the government was before. But I say this to be okay, as I am a Cretan, and I have an increased sensitivity to the issue that you are addressing. I will tell you in particular what action has been taken on this matter. But you will allow me, given that you have been demunition about the government's policy on tourism, to give you not one and two measures, but eight concrete measures which are in force or will be put into effect in the next few days for workers in tourism.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u87	For the drivers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u88	I'll get to the drivers. I will not get away from it, but I will say it in the order that I think we have the second word to go on. First of all, starting with the most recent, EUR 534 special-purpose compensation is granted for workers in the tourism sector for January and February 2021. It concerns categories of workers, such as tour guides, tourist attendants, travel agencies and booking services. It's the most recent one, it's not the most important one, but I'm saying it's because it's only been finalised in the past few days. In addition, it concerns employees in tourist activities during the 2019 tourist season that were not re-entered in 2020 due to the circumstances. Secondly, we recently announced the special financial assistance for 12-month-old hotel accommodation companies that upgraded or expanded their facilities by covering 80% of wage and non-wage costs. Thirdly, we have the cover of employers' insurance contributions until 30 March 2021 for the 12 month-old tourist accommodation that had fallen at least 70% in gross income over the same period of 2019. Fourthly, special measures for seasonal workers in tourist accommodation and guides to tourist buses with the right to compulsory re-entry. In particular, for those who were re-entered, we have anticipated a suspension of employment contracts for a specific purpose of EUR 534 with insurance cover on their nominal salary and a Christmas present proportionately over EUR 534. Similarly, those who have not been re-elected were allowed to submit a declaration for a specific allowance unilaterally, for insurance cover and for a Christmas gift for the period from June to October 2020, and for 2020 the required number of marks for the regular unemployment subsidy from a hundred to fifty seals was foreseen. I hope you're not questioning it. Fifth, for seasonal workers without the right to re-entry, monthly exceptional compensation was granted for the period from July to August 2020, since they were not subsidised as unemployed by the OAED. Sixth, we anticipated the granting of a monthly exceptional compensation for the same category for January - February 2021. Seventhly, we have taken measures to support the unemployed, such as the extension of the duration of the grant for all unemployment benefits and the granting by the OAS of a single EUR 400 payment for each non-subsidised long-term unemployed in the unemployment register. And eighth, the application from March 2020 until now, with the exception of July alone, of the measure to suspend employment contracts for workers in the tourism sector as affected. So these workers are entitled to special purpose compensation. We have therefore implemented, in an unprecedentedly difficult environment for workers in tourism, an equally unprecedentedly positive and massive support programme, which reflects the overall government policy. We are therefore nothing but indifferent to the workers. But then I will tell you - because I am well over time - what we are doing in this particular case with bus drivers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u89	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u90	Mr Minister, one would expect you to answer the questions I have raised in your protology. You have chosen to carry out a review, announcements in total for the employees in the tourism sector. Yes, but these programmes, which you are announcing, are the ones that have led to the impoverishment of tourism workers. Tell me, with the 534 euros, can you live? Can you? You see this as a great success of the government that gave - and not all of the workers - the EUR 534. I may ask you personally for the first time, but I think you're used to it every time you tell us that the state keeps up with it. So you should have known that we had overheard these things and we would expect you to be ready to give very specific answers. You'll probably give it to us in denology. I got it. But here, we are talking about workers moving. Even on April 9th, workers in tourism and food are mobilizing throughout Greece and demanding very specific things. They demand decent wages, no one is left without income and all employees are relocated after their debts have drowned to the neck. And with regard to insurance and to what you have told us, these conditions are not guaranteed either because they must have the two days of insurance. Otherwise, you're talking about demographics. Get in position for these! In any case, this policy of yours really is a policy of fierce attack on the workers you have started in total - and I come back - and on the workers of tourist bus drivers. At the same time, you are giving millions of euros to airlines, to the clinical authorities, to the masters, to the shipowners, to the hoteliers and, on the other hand, to the workers without income, without substantial protection. With redundancies and terrorism, these tourist bus workers are trying to live in pandemic times. The intimidation of workers from the bus companies, with the unfair and unjust service of extrajudicial redundancies, not only doesn't scare them, but you know that the four and a half months of racing mobilisation will be eight and a half, they will be fifteen, they will be twenty. Drivers, like all the employees in tourism - foodism, are obviously facing too many difficulties for themselves, their families, they have no bills to pay, they do not have to pay the bank, they do not have to pay the EKO, they do not have to pay the tax. Really, where are the employers' loves and molds when business was doing well? Now only deportation, redundancies, punishment. Yes, but their fleet, these agents, the big-timers, all of them, acquired them with the blood and the sweat of the workers. Eighty-five buses are the fleet of UNION and other thirteenth of the ‘CRETAN HOLIDAYS’. They got rich at the expense of the workers. And now they're throwing them on the road. This, however, is the inhuman face of employers, the barbaricity of capitalism with all governments. And you support them and finance them with a fat million. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The agents, therefore, have wrought all the relief measures that the government has announced in their favour. With the FEK in December 2020, the Ministries of Finance and Tourism gave agents of tourist buses and tourist trains an extraordinary compensation of EUR 21,000, unrelated, tax free, free of charge, fees and contributions. EUR 1,000,000 entrepreneurship fund, repayable and non-refundable advances. Tell us what you gave the drivers or what you'll give them now, what you'll do.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u91	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u92	But they took what they didn't get! And they're asking for more! They're arrogant and you're willing to do these things to them. And you prove how classically you hate workers, wealth producing people. In any case, I come back very specifically to what we are asking for: here and now no worker is made redundant. Integrate all of them into seasonal operations, canceling all the redundancies made and banning others for the next period. To ensure the income of all workers on the basis of collective agreements, by abolishing and rotating work. Sign local collective agreements, which were in force last year and ensure all wage and pension rights resulting therefrom.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u93	Finish it, Mr. Synergy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u94	That is what I wanted to say, Mr President. We ask for very specific answers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u95	Thank you very much. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u96	Mr. Sympathy, I really wonder. We have given EUR 6.4 billion to workers and unemployed within a year. I repeat, we have only given them to the workers and the unemployed. I am not talking about business or other activities, which also indirectly support workers. Why if business shut down, where will the workers work? These 6.4 billion euros are 1/3 of a seven-year NSRP! And we gave it up in a year! It is the most massive support programme for workers and the unemployed, which has been done throughout modern Greek history. Obviously we have given it because of the need, because there are no restrictions that were in place by the European Union. But it is a reality and it cannot be called into question. I understand, of course, that you cannot stand in favour of the government.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u97	How much did you give the others?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u98	I also mentioned previously the allowances that we gave the bus drivers. For both seasonal workers and the others, I mentioned the evidence. I guess you heard them. In fact, I invited you to watch me at that time, especially when I was referring to drivers. I now come to the reports submitted by the Federation of Trade Union Transport and the Tourist Bus Guides Association "The ERMIS". The Ministry's relevant departments have started to investigate whether there are violations based on legislation. In addition to the reports, the federation and association have submitted to the labour relations inspection department in Heraklion at the beginning of March and applications for procedures to resolve labour disputes with two undertakings in the region - one hotel and one general tourist business - regarding the announcement of the non-recruitment of thirty-five bus drivers. The Heraklion inspection department, following requests, has launched a trialogue process with the collective bodies of both companies. That is what is planned and what is done is done. The relevant departments of the Ministry are following the matter so that the best possible solution can be found within the existing framework. From there on, I should like to point out that at national and local level, the EESC's control mechanisms are constantly monitoring the labour market and compliance with legislation. I would like to mention that within 2020, seventy-four checks were carried out by the Regional Directorate of Crete in the tourism sector and forty-six fines were imposed for infringements of labour law of EUR 184,000. These checks continue this year. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I would also like to say to you that in the other labour relations inspection departments in Crete, namely the ones of Rethymno, Lassithi and Chania, complaints of workers or unions have so far not been received for redundancies of tourist bus drivers. In any case, we don't close our eyes against these phenomena. We must collect businesses and workers within the framework of the rules laid down. We'll all walk through the canvas together. We are a government based on a large folk party, such as the New Democracy. I repeat once again, and from this point of view, that we believe that there can be no business-free workers, but we also believe that there can be no business with the tiles workers. That's what we believe, and that's how we move on.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Minister. We move on to the second question under No 4125/12-2-2021 question of the cycle of petitions - questions by the Member of the Heraklion Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'In the course of the third wave of the pandemic, thousands of workers, unemployed and weak, remain without support measures'. The Minister for Labour and Social Affairs will answer Mr Constantine Hatzidakis. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Mr President. There is no doubt that not only Greece but all Europe and the whole world are going through an unprecedented situation. Fortunately there is the support of the European Union at this time that may have been greater and better, but in any case it is enough to deal with the situation. Indeed, Minister, Greece has spent 27 billion so far and 2.4 billion recently announced by the Prime Minister. It is far above the European Union's average GDP. However, at the same time I would like you to note that it is about 30% above the European Union average, the recession in our country. This is a problem, which relates to the structure of our economy, to tourism that is largely, but also to the design and targeting of the programme and the choices of the government and support for people. In fact, money has been spent. But as long as you insist on this - and you do well on your part - we must also insist on those who have left behind the support measures. And it is an important issue that you have just discussed, compliance with collective agreements, the basic rules of labour law. You said quite rightly that there is a readmission forecast with the new tourist season. But it's not up to you. There is an abusive practice of some. That is why through the tripartite - which you have just referred to - in the direction of the Ministry for the general framework that is in force, we hope that the law will be implemented and there will be no abusive practices. We hope so. We will see, however, why the process is under way. As far as the charges are concerned, I have to tell you that there are too many of them. Long-term unemployed, over twenty-four months, are not supported. There are workers who have to work since October not 2020, but 2019. There are seasonal workers who have filled up fifty brands, but their businesses have typically lost the character of the season. He promised the Ministry, Mr. Tsakloglu, that they would see this, but it has still not been addressed. For example, in the ‘DUTY FREE’ seasonal workers were not supported as seasonal workers. It is not the case for them that the fifty trade marks have been lost by the seasonal worker, the seasonal undertaking. It's a big deal. Employees who did not fill out the fifty marks, but forty-five, did not enter the unemployment benefit. Seasonal workers, who completed fifty but for the first year, have unfortunately also been a coma for them. We have professional scientists who, due to income criteria, were excluded from the allocation of 400 euros from the special account of L.3986/2011. You announced that because there is stock, you will find a solution. We need to know what's going to happen. Long-term job-seekers are out of support. Employees with the title of acquisition or admission are not included in the measures. Like also workers at night shops and workers with one day's contracts, the so-called "extrajids", seasonal workers at winter tourist destinations, a particular category - it is not common for Greece, but there are - the workers of a number of enterprises, who are not typically affected, but have nullified their work like miners, shipwreckers. Occupational workers active in tourist areas, but SMRs are not classical tourist enterprises. In other words, a minimarket in the tourist area is not considered a tourist business typically, but lives from tourism, so it is as affected as the rest. There are other categories, of course, belonging to other ministries, rural women who do not take a special leave, farmers affected, etc. There are also pensioners, for whom there has been a lot of discussion, without a pension. Pensioners without a pension are without support for this difficult period. For all of this, we would like your answers. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u102	I note that, in fact, I am pleased with the style of Mr Kegeroglu's question, because he is of course lying to the government from the position of counter-population, but at least it does not question the reality, it does not question the figures and benefits that have been given. I hope I don't hurt him for saying this thing from the Step of the House. I cannot bear to say it, especially after what I have heard before. So I answer. We do have a massive support programme. The workers and the unemployed, supported by this programme, are three million. Our three million fellow workers and the unemployed have supported the last year with these EUR 6.4 billion to which I referred earlier. He says Mr Kegeroglu 'yes, but the recession is great'. It's really big, but let's see in our neighborhood. Let us compare with Spain, which the socialists and Podemos govern, a country with similar characteristics to us, because the tourist country of Spain, the tourist country and Greece. Based on the provisional figures, Greece has a recession of -8.2% - due to the coronary, Spain has 11% and something. I would also like to point out that, yes, we have more room for public action than in the past, when there was the narrow corset of the memorandum and the primary surpluses, but let us not forget that we are neither Switzerland nor Sweden. This money is from taxpayers and is also from borrowers, which we all remember - I hope we have not forgotten - that it is not outrageous. We therefore need to find this balance. I would like to say that various categories are constantly added, and now a ministerial decision is taking place which includes various categories, from people working in the outdoor markets to the lottery and sales dealers of the magazine 'GREEDIA'. I would also like to note from this point of view that we are working on the text of a new ministerial decision with the Ministry of Finance, which concerns scientists. And since the first payment made has made a sum of money - 17.5 million of the 40 committed - has been given, we are trying to find the criteria, while respecting the logic of the distribution of the Ministry of Finance, so as to give scientists these 400 euros as an elementary support on the part of the state. But to note, Mr Kegeroglu, and I say this with the same sincerity as I said before, that the effort is not easy. The state mechanism has reacted very quickly and I say it with a greater objectivity, if you like, because I am two or a half months at the Ministry. All that happened was with the previous political leadership and while you have to be quick, you have to control. For example, when we correctly put the artists in the support programme, for some reason that we all understand it, the musicians who said they were street musicians increased dramatically between January and February. You realize that, yes, there must be social support, but we must be careful where the money is going. In particular, I would like to focus on the effort we are making for pensioners, because you are absolutely right in your point that there can be no pensioners without money. For this reason, we have immediately promoted legislation on this subject, to provide advances on national pensions with retrospective support for pensioners. That is why we are promoting a number of measures, such as the recruitment of contractors under project contracts, the recruitment of retired people, recently retired by the EKKA, with project contracts, like what I announced yesterday, the utilization of certified professionals, accountants and lawyers, so that all the weapons that we have at our disposal to fight, so that the state is finally in line with the pensioners, especially in this sensitive period.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, Mr President. While there is agreement, there is a lot of money to support businesses, workers and weak people, it seems that there is no deal, that they have not taken the place in question. And what would this place be, Minister, when the weak were supported? At this time, we have an empty four hundred thousand people who have not even received 1 euros of support. The more you tell me about the 3 million euros, the more I will tell you about the four hundred thousand. Four hundred thousand people haven't even taken one euro. You need to see it from this base: how you won't stay behind. In any case, those who are not supported by any programme, such as unemployment, EUR 534 - or any other amount - should, for at least a period of time, join the minimum guaranteed income, which must of course be increased at the time when these difficult conditions exist, so that people can survive. You need to see a safety net that won't leave these four hundred thousand people behind. That's very important. Look at it. For a year I have been putting forward proposals on this, and I have been saying things to the previous ministers, as I say to you today. In some cases, our views have been heard. However, 90% of these were not heard, unfortunately. I'll testify to you the protests of all the scientific bodies from the economists, lawyers, the Technical Chamber, everyone, in relation to their support program. Of the hundred and eighty thousand, the 40 thousand took. You know that. It's not possible. There's been a mistake. This mistake, however, is neither of the officials nor of the officials themselves. This mistake is political. The policy must therefore be corrected. You must see with your own political initiative, which will see the problem, of course, how they will be integrated into a one, two, three-month programme, those who are unemployed and who, for whatever reason, do not meet the standard criteria. You can't do that. But we have problems even with decisions that you have taken. You already said that those who did not have the right to re-entry would take Genoa and February. They haven't taken it yet. March and April will be given. When is this going to happen? Is it going to happen in May? And look at the subject of collective agreements. You said before, in the previous debate, that you are encouraging the conclusion of a contract in tourism, foodism. Yes, but when you are encouraging, you do so because you see that there is a need and that it is good for social peace, so also for the entrepreneurship and the decent position of workers. So when you do, you should, at the same time, see how this collective agreement is to be extended as compulsory. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing.]] And the one that ended on 21 February, Minister, was not declared. Do you know why? Because he never met the CSCE in order to give his opinion. The same is true of the issue of the tourist buses that you previously had the debate. See how they will come - this is the greatest anxiety for me - again in agreement at least on institutional issues, because finances can play. It's the critical juncture, we might see it along the way. But on institutional issues, encourage them. Take the initiative. [[At this point, the honourable Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] I'm closing up on the pensions issue. There's a problem here. Temporary retirement is institutionalised. Because of the inability to pay the system, they say 'all right, we'll pay for it'. Now we have against the temporary, temporary ones being against normal and mainstream. I think there is a mistake here that is very important. You said yourself before that you wanted to check at the same time. Of course, it is public money, a public system, a public interest and there must be control. But when we trust the candidate retired, the insured person, to tell us that he is thirty years or fifteen years to get the EUR 380, two things can be done by extension: whether we trust him or not for the years as well, the totals and therefore the temporary pensions will come out - it is a matter of five minutes literally - or not to trust him at all. You say we trust him a little, so that the things that are going to get wrongly paid are too little. That's probably what you mean and you say you'll only give 360.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u105	Finish, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u106	And - be careful - it is unjust the criticism you have made of the employee or employee - I do not know if he is a man or a woman - that he wanted to put a reservation, not to sign it, but to sign it with a reservation. Do you know why she's unfair? Because there are no insurance margins, which you yourself have just referred to for control. If there were, and they wouldn't ask for the money from her, for the wrongly paid I mean, then there wouldn't be any matter and you'd be right. But there aren't any of these insurance chips.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u107	Please complete, Mr. Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u108	So, you're wrong and don't try to charge the officials with the mistakes all the political leaderships of recent years have made, where to put myself in, but they're not the employees who have made the mistakes. It's Mr. Brutsis, it's Mr. Katrugalos, Mr. Petropoulos, Mr. Kegeroglu. All of you tell them, but not the employees.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Kegeroglu, you've been in seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u110	Mr President, because I have another question, I will be brief to the other one.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u111	Yes, but how will a setback be made?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u112	On this occasion I will present to you a scientific study, which I have done as a diplomatic work on postgraduate work, which concerns precisely the problem that we are discussing, the 'Organization and operational integration of e - EVA: a post-mortem reform', and with Mr.4387 - I am saying it now - Mr. Katrugalou and Mr.4720 Mr. Brutsi - I will give you a copy, as well as Mr. Tsakloglu - and even the amendment to your own - all that does not include is your amendment, because I have tabled it recently - it says precisely, it has the problems and it also has proposals on how to complete this reform. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u113	Minister, I'm calling for your dentistry. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u114	I repeat that the figures are clear and revealing. We are talking about a massive social support programme. There is no equivalent to all the modern Greek political history. I come to specific answers. For workers in tourism without reintegration, a relevant draft Ministerial Decision on an opinion, as provided for in the legislation, has been promoted by me to the OAED. I think the OAED will meet tomorrow, and the text will come back again, and then the Treasury will be promoted, and people will soon be given their money. In addition to that, I would like to remind you - because you say 'you do not cover other categories' - that there was an exceptional EUR 400 special support programme for the long-term unemployed, other than that provided for by the legislation on the long-term unemployed. At the same time, it is in force, modernises and strengthens the institution of the minimum guaranteed income, to which you also had personal contributions in 2013-2014. I would also like to remind you that in February, with me, Minister for Employment, in consultation with the Ministry of Finance, we have been able to regulate minimum insurance capacity, and so we also give people who did not complete the number of posts envisaged, to be able to access all relevant services and medical care for another year. We are not making any mistakes about this, but this is a measure which has recently been adopted. What I would also like to add, in this context, is that as the measures are evolving, because the pandemic is evolving, very soon with the Ministry of Finance, we will make relevant announcements about what will happen next month. However, the will of the government is, without taking money from people who do not deserve it - because I would like to point this out once again - to give all the aid that the Greek state can give to support the Greek economy, businesses, especially small and medium-sized enterprises, and even more the workers and the unemployed. I'm closing up with a retirement observation. For pensions, we have brought relief arrangements because of the delay with national pensions, the advances we give, that is, the retrospective ones, but we are not exhausted. What we are interested in is to solve the question of pensions as a whole and that is something we have to look at in a spirit of common sense. The spirit of common sense was also the arrangement we have brought, the relief of pensioners, for advances to national pensions. That is why I was amazed at the reaction of the agency, because, within the same regulation, which was special regulation, a netting mechanism was provided for in cases where the pensioner may not be entitled to the pension. But here too, what setbacks are we talking about? We are talking about a low figure we give in the meantime. I would like to point out once again that in the public sector, namely, only 3% do not get - not a pension - the amount of pension that I expect to receive. In the private sector, the percentage is higher, but also small. And we don't talk about people who don't deserve anything, because even if we assume they're not entitled to anything, they'll get the benefits of the uninsured super-season and, therefore, the public will take them away from somewhere. So no employee has to pay out of his pocket. The right of settling is laid down in the relevant legislation. From there on, I really can't understand such reactions. In other words, the public should be exhausted every detail in case it owes money and does not show the same sensitivity to fulfil its obligations. Why? I, therefore, want to be the Minister of a government which is sensitive to pensioners, whom so far we are not entirely okay. We're talking about it! Well, what we are saying about our own government must be said and we must do, together with the officials and the ministry and the EFCA, an effort to get things done faster. We're not here to show social and political sadism. We are to deal with issues and show social sensitivity together in practice. After all, the Constitution itself speaks of this sensitivity, which must show government and state officials. That is what I say, Mr Kegeroglu, and I really think that your criticism is completely wrong and, in any event, in absolute misrepresentation with the great majority of the Greek people at this time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u115	Thank you, Minister. We are now entering the next, on the third with number 557/12-3-2021, a topical question by the President of Heraklion the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: ‘When will you finally correct the institutional scandal of Law 4670/20 with which you have introduced new disparities in the insurance system?’ The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor. Do not forget to set aside time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u116	Yes, Mr. President. After the welfare of Mr Hatzidakis' numbers we need to talk again about people's misfortune, because, of course, I accept that he does not accept our criticism because we are absolutely right, when his Government received a hundred and fifteen thousand outstanding pensions and today it is a hundred eighty and wants to throw it at an employee. Well, that's not possible, Mr. Hatzidakis! With Law 4670, Mr Tsakloglu, new arrangements have been introduced to the insurance system. First of all, I would like to refer to the one from the previous SYRIZA government, which increased the health contribution from 4% to 6% for pensioners and imposed a 6% contribution on supplementary pensions. Without any study, the Katorugalou law came and completely linked the contributions for pensions, but also for health and income, and created a cradle. We talked about classes for the inemployees for specific areas of economic situation and their connection to six categories. What did your government do? He made an arrangement for the self-employed, without reviewing or linking it to the arrangement he had with the employees. What is the injustice that has two sides? The first is that an entrepreneur, who may also happen to be an employer of the employee himself, can be insured with EUR 155 per month, while the employee to be considered insured must pay together with the employer of EUR 400 per month. To make it simpler, I'm going to the health contribution, which both theoretically have the same need, so they have to have the same participation, the businessman - who might also be a shipowner, right? - it can pay between EUR 55 and 65, while the euro 142 worker, a well paid employee and I mean in relation to the prevailing wages. This contradiction, this double injustice and twice at the expense of workers, not by the employers de and well, by the system chosen, will be reviewed? [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] The question is: Does this contradiction exist for workers to pay over three times as much health as the employer? Do you think the employer won't need the system and the employee will need it, so you're making him pay three times over? It is questionable, which needs to be answered and, above all, the main question needs to be answered, whether you will take a legislative initiative to correct these institutional diversions, in my view.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u117	Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u118	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Kegeroglu, first of all, I would like to thank you very much for giving you a copy of your diplomatic work and as a university teacher I sincerely want to congratulate you, you are applying the "teacher's age" which we all have to do. And I come to your question now. I must admit that I felt a great question when I read your question and finally got a little confused about what exactly you would prefer to do with the insurance of freelance professionals. I'll explain what I mean. In your question and in your position now you are using an extreme example for a free millionaire, to show the possibility that it can pay much less than a hired person and then invoke the injustice, suffered by the same profession, because of limited choices in the available insurance classes. But let me go to the essence of your question. The Katorugalou law, as we all remember well, has caused strong political confrontation from all the wings of the then-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multi-multy. This law linked the contributions of the self-employed to their taxable income. In fact, the calculation was made on the basis of the income of the previous year. As to where that change led us, according to the Council of State, the calculation of social security contributions on taxable income was considered to be double taxation for both him and other reasons, the Katrugalou law was considered unconstitutional. Subsequently, Law No 4670, known as the Brutsi Act, abolished those arrangements by introducing six categories of insurance free of charge for the selfemployed, from which the persons concerned can choose which ones they will be subject. In addition, the bureaucracy and administrative burden, created in the competent agencies by the Katorugalou law, exceeded every previous one. The suffering of the citizens in relation to the recalculations required by the system, in order to determine and then collect contributions, was indeed beyond any logic. At the same time, in addition to the creation of even more multi-fashioned insurance legislation, the lack of effective integration of the insurance funds that have merged with the ECA is very much related to the great bourgeoisie of the outstanding pensions that we are trying to resolve today. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu, the Katrugalou law was judged in both constitutional and administrative terms and its change was necessary. In your question you refer to the limited range of choices that free professionals have today in relation to insurance classes. Your question would really make sense if there was a accumulation of insured persons in the highest and especially in the last insurance class. However, the available data do not show that. In fact, they show the whole opposite. Therefore, the adoption of your proposal to add additional insurance classes would simply not have any substantial effect. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] In addition, the applicable prior to the Katrugalou Act shows that the maximum amount of the contribution that the free traders and self-employed persons could pay was close to the amounts fixed as from 1 January 2020 by the Brutsis Act. The monthly contributions, that is, to the existing headings now range from EUR 155 to EUR 500. Before the Katorugalos Act, the contributions of the insured in the former OAU ranged between EUR 152 and EUR 512 and the corresponding sums in the TSMEDE were from EUR 138 to EUR 466. Finally, on the issue of inequalities, your question ignores the amount of future pensions, especially in their return. This means that the high-paid self-employed of your example, who chooses to pay low insurance today, will receive a low-paid pension tomorrow. Therefore, when we introduce the time-consuming dimension, the potential imbalance, which you point to in your question, is greatly weakened if it is not completely eliminated. You realize that we cannot have 'and the whole pie and the dog are full'. I've spent my time, so in the second part of your question, I'll answer my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u119	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u120	Thank you, Mr President. As you well said, Minister, Mr.4387 had risen to a storm of reactions on many sides. But you, who are the "significant" of your prolongation against Law4387, then came and made significant changes in certain fields, creating new inequalities. You don't fix the law. And I am not saying that, but the Court of Auditors. The Court of Auditors, therefore, says - I am reading you a quote - 'Luxembourg 44670 sets out in general the rules of Law No.4387/2016, with substantial changes to specific provisions which have been found to be unconstitutional by the Council of State', page 16, the Court of Auditors minutes, first special session, 12-2-2020. So you have failed to make a commitment here in Parliament that you will change the so-called Katrugalou law. So don't get him that damned. Let us now see your own new disparities that you have introduced again, because you said that it is not necessarily necessary. Of course it's not necessarily necessary. But in practice this huge injustice can happen to a large extent rather than to a lesser percentage. You have regulated the issue of the contributions of professionals, industrialists and shipowners in exactly the same spirit. But can you apply it in the same spirit? If you apply it in the same spirit and the professional economist is the same as the shipowner - because this is what this is about, you put them in the same koruna - we will come to see what is then different for the worker to pay three more times. Right now, this businessman - whether he is a shipowner or an accountant - who has declared the first class pays a contribution of EUR 55? He's paying. Does the relevant worker, with the example I am showing you, pay a health contribution of EUR 142? He's paying. Why this injustice? Do you have any study - on the occasion of the pandemic you may have done, I don't know - saying he's going to be introduced more times? Of course, the health and safety system at work is in a bad state, but it provides for risks, heavy and unhealthy, and we have a special regime. We're talking about the other cases. A desk clerk will pay three times as much as his boss pays! You can't do that! You need to see it. Don't evade! The proposal we make for three - four other categories is something different. To be supplemented by three - four categories, to be linked to areas of economic capacity - areas of economic capacity, not directly to income - and to be able to pay and get more. However, it is not possible, because if you want to give the option freely, give it to the workers too. Can you? You cannot, firstly, because it will be antisocial and, secondly, because the whole system will collapse, the revenue will collapse. There is already one point from that. Not that it was a good precedent. The previous one was of the limbs. But we can't go from one end to the other! That's what this is about. There is no connection to financial capacity and position! I would therefore say that you need to rethink it and bring it back soberly to the Committee on Social Affairs or the Committee on the Monitoring of the Insurance System, so that we can see how we can remove these social inequalities, injustices and at the same time strengthen the sustainability of our insurance system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u121	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, Mr Kegeroglu. Mr Kegeroglu, regardless of the Court of Auditors' assessment, I think that any citizen who can estimate that the change from contributions on the basis of taxable income to contributions on insurance lines is nothing but significant or marginal. Now, among the changes promoted by the Brutsi Act were to ensure the stability of the payment of contributions, obviously always within the framework of the overall viability of the system. This same framework also includes the health care contribution you mentioned. The revenues generated by these contributions from both employees and free traders are of particular importance in ensuring the completeness of health services. Especially in today's extraordinary treaty, which we live where health expenditure has been launched, it has proved in the most emphatic way that we need to safeguard public health infrastructures in every way. However, we must not forget that most of the financial support for the public health system is not from the contributions of the insured, but from the budget, namely from the support of taxpayers. With this perspective, the contribution of the most prosperous sections of the population is higher than that of the less privileged, thus measuring the possible imbalance you highlight in your question. Mr Kegeroglu, in a more general context I understand the spirit of your question, although the examples you have used were rather extreme. I have repeatedly pointed out from the Step forward of this House - and indeed to your questions - the complexity of the insurance system and the initiatives we are taking constantly to simplify it, but without jeopardising its viability. In this context, the Ministry of Labour must take care and care for all citizens. Freelance professionals through the existing system can reduce the burdens of their business and increase their income available by choosing a low insurance class. But it is obvious that this also implies a choice for a lower pension in the future. Repeat: Higher classes exist and whoever wants to choose them. In addition, let me last say something, a strategic priority of the Ministry and the Government in general is the promotion of wage-earning. In this context, the government's high priority commitment to reducing as much as possible the non-wage labour costs by reducing insurance contributions. The reduction in insurance contributions in 2021 for the private sector by three percentage points, taking into account the reduction already applied since the second half of 2020 by 0,9 percentage points, reduces cumulatively by 3,9 percentage points from 40,56 % to 36,66 % the rate of insurance contributions to the insured income, and the reduction already adopted by 0.5 % of the supplementary social contributions in mid-2022. These changes bring us closer to the European average and certainly promote employment. In conclusion, I would like to assure you that our aim is to make every change and every reform we are trying to achieve, to improve our position over time as many of our fellow citizens as possible. The Brutsis Act attempted, restored injustices and, above all, the unconstitutionality of the previous insurance reform. In this spirit, in the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, we are working every day to limit and eliminate as many distortions and injustices as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, too. I read in a post yesterday: 'Gegerliglu in Turkey'. You've seen it, Mr. Kegeroglu. We're...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u124	It's from another...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u125	On the other hand. Good! We continue with the third, with the number 555/11-32021 topical question, by Hercules of the Change Movement Mr.Kingarou Vasilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Governmental insufficiency or indifference in order to proceed with the compensation procedures in Crete". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u126	Thank you very much, Mr President. In Crete, then, late October and early November, we had two parallel waves of extreme weather phenomena, which caused too many damage to infrastructure, homes, businesses and, of course, to plant and animal production. Immediately in November, together with other Members of the Change Movement, and on the basis of the experience that already existed by 'January', we tabled an amendment to ensure that the provisions of Law 4728/2020 and Law 4737/2020 on compensation for 'January' in Thessaly also apply to Crete. Then others mocked us, told us 'no, it was not the damage itself', others refused it with some arguments that were not sent. Minister Voridis said "neither the damages are the same", when at the same time in Crete the commander of ELGA said "a simple amendment is and we will do so because it facilitates us". Something positive that has been done in Thessaly has not been exploited to see whether and in the future it should be in a permanent institutional framework perhaps which requires revision - both the Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Finance - that is, the overall framework for damage recovery, as not just climate change, but the climate crises we see with extreme weather phenomena are increasingly causing the need for state intervention and support for people. So what we are asking today is this: why has the region not been delimited yet? It would have been delimited by the beginning of November. Today it has not been delimited yet. When will it finally be delimited? It has been done by your Ministry of Infrastructure by a good record of damages that have been done, but the 5 grand for homes and 8 grand for businesses have not yet been paid, and also the compensation for the construction, but this is the responsibility of the Ministry of the Interior, it is not yours. I don't know if he's involved in demarcation. We are not yet in the process of completing neither ELGA nor the issues relating to the damage suffered by citizens, homes and businesses. There has been something that is a first important step, with the funding of municipal infrastructure, access roads, etc. This has been the first to be financed, but the rest, Mr Minister, there has been no development. We're waiting for an update.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u127	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u128	Mr President, Mr Kegeroglu, I think I should start with something that we should put in a row. We are talking, first of all, as you quite rightly said, about two weather phenomena. The first weather phenomenon was, I would say, low intensity. I'm talking about the October hailstorm. The second was much more intense and was the theory of November. Secondly, we need to say a little bit about the procedure to understand, because here too many bodies are involved in doing what in these cases. In order to examine the possibility of demarcation of affected areas by the Ministry of Infrastructure, the region must first come, Mr. Colleague, to make the event known in writing. The request should then be sent to the services and the so-called demarcation should be made, of course accompanied by all the situations in which the findings are found. Let us now see what happened in this particular case. I'm starting with the October event. The procedure is completed on 5 February. According to it, only one house in the municipality of Darachos Chania has been damaged by the quarries in October and the region has also requested the demarcation of a number of areas of the Municipality of Heraklion. Let's go to November's theory. The Ministry's mechanism has moved quickly, and I think we all have to admit that. You said it yourself. The engineers of the Directorate-General for Natural Disaster Effects, both the engineers who are in Crete and the engineers who are in Athens, came with stadiums and immediately recorded all damages. Self-consciousness is really complete in time, I would say, record: on 23 November. Eight hundred and seventy-four buildings in the Regional Unit of Heraklion, Rethymno and Lassithi, so, according to the planned procedure, what the municipality and the region would then have to do was send us the relevant documents. We are in constant contact and very good cooperation with the Region of Crete. Let me inform you that these documents were sent to us on 26 February. We were notified of the affected areas for Heraklion and Chania. But we haven't gotten, Mr. Kegeroglu, yet the evidence of Rethymnon and Lasithi. These, as I told you, took place on February 26th. On March 5th, that is, seventeen days ago, and the Municipality of Rethymnon sent his relevant documents to the Region of Crete, which was sent to the Ministry on March 18th and we are still awaiting the data from Lassithi. We cannot therefore talk about inadequacy or indifference. The institutions have worked both for Otta and for the government in a very good cooperation, and I would also like to tell you that at the moment we are taking a step forward and drawing up the draft joint ministerial decision to be ready, after all the documents from the region have come in the first place, to demarcate the affected areas. In my dentistry, Mr President, I am going to stand by the procedure because there is a misunderstanding about when you get the 5,000 euros of the construction from the Ministry of Interior - which you mentioned, Mr Kegeroglu - and when, in what specific cases, we receive the one-off compensation of EUR 5,000 and EUR 8 000, which, as you rightly said, has been given in the case of Thessaly and in the case of Evia, which were - I will be allowed to say - exceptional cases and as you can see, I will tell you this procedure and what the procedure for housing is. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u129	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u130	Minister, you said everyone was doing their job well. So it's ending March. Since October, red tape has not been completed. The citizen now listening to us, do you know what he's saying? "Think they didn't do well." Mercy! There's a problem. It cannot be said that the regions affected have not been delimited for the first ten, fifteen days. Since, however, this is usually the case, that is to say, the delay is usually the case, we have proposed their legislative definition based on the printing at the Ministry. He's got it! I went to Malia, Hersonissos, etc. And I saw your tiles. That's why I said it. I didn't say it theoretically. So we've had from the very first moment who the municipalities are, who's been hurt. So the demarcation could have been like the 'January', on the basis of an initiative of your own, the Ministry of Finance - I don't know whose Ministry - and we have this situation, which is dragging behind. When the areas have not yet been delimited, it is dragging. For home construction and single help, this was a responsibility of the Ministry of Labour. I had simplified the procedure very much, on a A4 paper and based on squares, the damage grade of the house and the family members were getting up to 5,800 euros for the construction. This was done, for example, if the house had been flooded, the building was damaged. He's entitled from there. I'm not talking about damage to the skeleton and stagnation. I'm not talking about any more damage. That is why there are some reasons for this. But I'm coming back to the matter concerning your ministry. We want the demarcation to be carried out immediately, Mr Minister. The second is to make it clear what you said, the ambiguous one, that they are deserved in Thessaly because they are more difficult areas, while in Crete they are not entitled to them. A house destroyed, you know, in whatever way you take it, whether it's in Thessaly or in Crete it's the same. Whether it also caused damage to the river, the stream, the beach greater in one or the other area, this has nothing to do with the damage suffered by man. So for the same damage to Crete as Thessaly we want the same compensation, but I believe that it was not a premise that the 5 or 8 grand will not apply to Crete, what you said in your prototype. So, in order not to go any further, I have raised your points. We are completely exposed as a state to people and I say state, because it is not just the government and the ministries. They are parliamentarians, municipalities, regions and all together. So together, we are exposed to humans. So to avoid laughing at this state, do something, take some initiatives, do some action to close it. You really see a new institutional framework, because these phenomena are becoming more and more common. To be resolved through a normal procedure. It is not normal for it to be subject to parliamentary scrutiny. All this should be solved at first level. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u131	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u132	So let's put things in a row. I don't take the charge of mercy and delay. I told you the dates. There are many bodies involved here. What can we do? There are municipalities, there are regions, there is the Ministry of Infrastructure. I think that the government has recently demonstrated that it has operated and created a framework that operates at a very high speed and with quite adequacy. I don't want to go back to remind you of what happened to Mandra's damage or Matty, who's still asbestos in Matty today, so many years later. Therefore, Mr Kegeroglu, it cannot be demarcated within ten days of an area. That's a reality. But you're right. Citizens want more speed, and we need to be all over it so that we can work together. Because you have rightly said, and I agree with you, that the citizen who has suffered a great disaster in his home, in his farm or in his business, does not care if the state is the region, the municipality or the central government. He's interested in the state standing next to him. But we are now going to these disasters. You said that for the theory there are two yards and two weights. But, in fact, because the one-off payment of five and eight thousand is for exceptional circumstances, it cannot be given everywhere. That's what we said. And we said that we cannot compare the incredible catastrophes that took place with the 'January' some time ago. And that's where we institutionalised and took the central government's share of it to do this very quickly. With a special legislative framework and technical data, the restoration of infrastructure will be a very rapid process. Not to forget Crete, to see what we have given Crete. We've given 6.5 million euros. We've entered them in the EDP. To restore road damage of the Municipality of Mylopotamos, 2.5 million. Rehabilitation of Apokoronos road network, 1 million euro. Damage to the municipality of St. Vassiliou, EUR 1.7 million. Rehabilitation of damages in the Anogeion municipality, 400,000 euros. Rehabilitation of disasters in the rural and municipal network as well as the building infrastructure of the Municipality of Platania Chania: another 1 million euros. Not that we've done nothing! At the same time, we move forward with the procedures for the adoption of an additional EUR 23.5 million on the basis of the data provided by the affected regions. I therefore understand the need to control the government, but it is important that there are no excesses because there is a procedure, Mr Kegeroglu, that of housing aid. In case of earthquakes we give 80% state aid and 20% interest-free loan. That's what's going on in Elassona. The earthquake in Ellassona did not give the emergency 5 and 8 thousand. In fact, we have legislated, for this procedure to take place quickly, that when it becomes the re-checker from the Ministry if the evidence is not correct, this money will be repaid four times, so that there will be no excess. Also, the severe flooding phenomena are again being given state aid to 60%. The procedures are therefore clear. These procedures are, of course, much slower because the individual needs to prepare a file and give him a file. But in any case, I think we've moved quite quickly. I told you that the joint ministerial decisions are ready to come out for the two prefectures. We expect the region as a whole to send us all the data. Thank you for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u133	Mr President, I can have the floor. It's not about the question. We talked about the question. We will be judged by the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u134	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u135	In August they closed down a hundred years from the Asia Minor Destruction. After the Asia Minor Destruction the persecution of Hellenism was followed and intensified by Asia Minor, which had begun many years ago. We had the first persecution, the second and the 1924 exchange. It's an honor to be from the Hellenism of Asia Minor. A lot of people ask me why I don't change the last name. I say that our last name symbolizes that the Hellenism of Asia Minor was rooted there and some of them ripped him out. In addition, I will tell you that there is also the etymology of the word that states and supports why it is Greek, from ancient Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u136	The rest of us will be misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u137	Since the debate has come, we hope in 2022 that it will be declared officially by the state as the year for the Asia Minor Destruction and the uprooting of the Hellenism of Asia Minor. We need the Bureau to see it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u138	Thank you. The fifth will be discussed under number 567/12-3-2021 in the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary State, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: "Management of Egnatia Road's toll, on the way out, involvement of the institutions and the TEAD". Mr. Villard, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u139	Thank you, Mr President. Good afternoon, Minister, and thank you for your presence. Egnatia Road is of strategic importance to Greece. A length of six hundred and seventy kilometers crosses Macedonia, Thrace and Epirus, making it the fastest continuous route of the Balkans, connecting Asia and Turkey to the east, with Italy and Europe to the west. It is a key part of the European corridor E90. It connects difficult areas, four large Greek ports, six airports, as well as important industrial, tourist, agricultural and urban areas, eleven Greek cities with 36% of the population and 33% of the country's GDP. It is also associated with neighbouring countries Skopje, Albania, Bulgaria, and Turkey by providing connections with the ports of Greece. The State-owned EGNATIA was built between 1994-2009 at a total cost of EUR 6 billion, without VAT, while it was covered by national resources with the participation of the European Union and with loans from the National Bank. Recently they have been referred to in the ninth evaluation. Amongst other things, we are going to submit to the Minutes, we say: the Ministry of Infrastructure has committed itself to launching all toll stations before the start of the concession agreement. Apart from publications on the sale of “ENGNATIA” and from attempted competitions, there are additional strange hints in laws. For example, in Article 214 of Law 4782/2021 on public procurement, it is stated that the power to collect tolls to the Malgaras station is transferred to the company ‘EGNATIO WEBSITE S.A.’, which collects them on behalf of the Greek State and as the agent of the GOAD. A similar reference is made in the tendering procedure for the management of the Egnatia Toll, where provision is made for the unconditional resignation of the Contractor in the event of an early termination of the contract, for any reason from any right to compensation, against the ‘ENGINATIC BODY S.A.’, the public, the GOAD and the future concessionaire. Even more outrageous are reports of retention of tolls by banks, despite the fact that the “ENGINATIC LEVEL S.A.” has no loans on the basis of at least the balance sheet of 2018. Piraeus Bank does not appear in publications to have claims and to commit to toll revenues for a EUR 250 million loan. There is also a communication from the association of the employees of the "GENNATIO BODOS S.A." who are also reacting to the sale and involvement of the GOD, and are referring to the prospect of seizing the toll revenues from the banks. However, as far as we know from the accounts and the budget, the "GENNATIONAL LEVEL S.A." is not subject to the TEAD, but directly to the public. Our questions here are as follows: First, what is the reason for divesting the 'EGENATIS LEVEL S.A.' as the institutions are pressing for the ninth evaluation? Euphemistically, it remains a troika. Why is TIADED not a member of EGNATOS S.A. and why does it refer to its website? Who has authorized it and by what provision? And secondly, why is the GOI referred to as the Trustee in collecting the tolls of Egnatia? Is it the case that banks seized toll revenues? If that's true, why is that? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u140	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u141	You know very well that the issue of "Engnatia" the government and the Ministry have approached it with due seriousness. On 18 January, I answered a relevant topical and urgent question on the issues of EGNATIA, in which we said everything we said here. I'll see you again, though. Also, on 18 February in a committee that I think you were here, we discussed the framework agreement on 'Engnatia', and that is where all the answers were given. I do not hide from you that if I had not read which party had asked the timely question, I would have thought the Communist Party of Greece had made it. With the Communist Party of Greece we have a difference of ideological and honestness. It is against concessions and privatizations. They have been calling it purely and unspokenly for many years and they have been honoured by this attitude. We may disagree, but it honors them. This is where you use heavy talk. ‘Switching’. What sellout are you talking about? And you say things that aren't right. You're talking about a book value of EUR 7 billion. Very good. Are we selling Egnatia? We're giving it to her. Concessions are a financial model, which Kostas Karamanlis' government first brought into this country in 2004-2009, are made in all the countries of the European Union. The fact that today we have a modern road network safely has to do with the fact that we have these concessions. We have these throughout Europe, especially in the south, because you will tell me the example of Germany again. But we are not Germany or Denmark. We must compare ourselves with countries like Portugal, like Italy, where there are tolls. You also did something else, you said that this procedure was not part of the GOI. Read Law No.4336/15, where the TIADE was commissioned to open and conduct the tender. So when we came to the government, we had a competition, which had been postponed eight times. We want to give up the road. You're on this road of over six hundred kilometers and you'll see that this road has only suffered light maintenance rather than heavy maintenance. So compare the pieces of Egnatia with the pieces of the Olympian road. So the question is to pay a reasoned price, and that's what we've achieved. We overthrowded KYA Spirtzi - Tsakalotou, who was talking for 6 minutes per kilometer and took it to 3, because we said obviously that we were in favour of reasoned tolls, that is, that the tolls should be introduced gradually. I'll tell you that from the first toll stations I put in my constituency in the Strymonic. Not at EUR 2,25, but at EUR 1, with a half charge, which will be up to six minutes, as is all the other roads, when and if the concession goes ahead, when and if there are an APA, when and when the first maintenance projects are made. It is therefore important not to talk and not to say excesses. This fact has shown that it is in favour of concessions. We brought them into practice. The other governments, including those who said they would not privatise anything, followed. Finally this is a model that works very successfully and the state has a supervisory role, what it must have. So that is to answer your question about the 7 billion.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u142	Minister, you have a second.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u143	The book value is 7 billion. The road is not sold, it is granted for twenty-five, thirty years. That is what the left of us are saying. You, Mr. Villardo, are following a political argument that really leaves me with a lot of questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u144	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u145	Thank you very much, Mr President. What you said about the JRC, about the arguments, etc., let me leave them better, because somewhere you have to decide where we belong and where you think we belong. We've said it a thousand times, we've explained it, we've placed it, alas. But what you don't answer to me is where does Egnatia belong? Does it belong to the GOD or the public? It's a clear question, I expect you to answer me later. As far as accounting is concerned, I shall refer to my dentistry. Nor do you answer me whether it is true that the toll revenues are seized by the banks and why? Please answer, at least, what I ask, not what you imagine we believe or do, etc. Now, the book value of "Engnatia WEBSITE S.A.", which is the owner of the motorway, is recorded in the account of the public, he at least gave us, at least, EUR 7 billion, as much as the construction cost that was largely covered by the Greek State. I hope we agree this far. Based on its net book position, the value of the company in its balance sheet of 31 December 2018 was 6.3 billion, while it is profitable with profits of 22 million in 2018, where it employed a hundred and ninety-six people. The object of the divestment will be the main trunk of Egnatia, as well as three vertical axes of eight hundred and eighty-three kilometres long - six hundred and fifty-eight, the main body and twenty-five perpendiculars - noting that it has another five vertical axes. When we report divestment, when we report a sale, we always mean under the price that one should give for management or sell it. The press has shown many figures from time to time as to the benefit of the divestment - I insist - from 100 million to 800 million. Of course, there is no point in the price if it does not include what it includes, as it depends on kilometres, charging costs and duration, since 800 million concern the main axis of six hundred eight miles, three perpendiculars of twenty-five kilometres and forty-five years. On the basis of our own analysis, at a charge of 0,04 km, revenues could be 150 to 180 million annually from tolls, instead of 80 million in 2018, while maintenance costs of 77 million, on the basis of the contract "AKTOP" plus toll management costs of 35 to 40 million, on the basis of the recent tender, including sixteen to twenty tolls. Therefore, revenues are comfortable covering costs while still a significant amount to cover administrative costs and a profit. Therefore, the cost of using Egnatia could be reduced for the residents of the counties, which crosses if it was held by the State. ΕΓΝΑΤΙΑΤΙΔΟΣ S.A. has now borrowed 470 million of which 235 million from the EIB to improve road safety in seven thousand points, which is concerned with their repayment, especially if it is divested and has no more revenue. Especially worrying is who will buy out the management of Egnatia and by what process, how much more so when nine operational schemes were added to an earlier attempt, and only TERNA recently, although fortunately, the contest was cancelled. We note here in order to prevent you and not to say again that we are obsessed with national and only interest, while we are in favour of the free economy, which is not about public-private and strategic companies or sales. Obviously, we are against private monopolies as well as state and parasitic, state-run, domestic entrepreneurship. Clearly. Our questions here are as follows: First, what is the objective of the concession price for the administration of Egnatia? Why is management being promoted and not the concession of the fixed amount so as to cover the book value? It does not mean, of course, that we applaud it, but we are trying to understand the logic of selling. And secondly, will the book value and construction costs borne by Greek citizens be covered if sold or given for management? How can it be ensured that if the sale is launched by means of a competitive tendering procedure, that is, by way of a pretext to intermittent interests, whether internal or external? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u146	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Comrade, is Egnatia really part of it? Egnatia belongs to the Greek people, and that's where it's going to stay. Do you know why? Because Egnatia's not for sale. Granted for twenty-five to thirty years. The road won't be taken by the private person and he'll be gone. Don't say things that don't stand in any logical analysis. We are talking about a concession made in all the countries of the European Union. It came here late in 2007 on the Minister of George Souflia, which then several opposition parties, mainly from the left, had stalked, condemned, but eventually followed this model by almost all the governments that came after it. So it has to be perfect here. The concession system is a system that has upgraded road safety in particular. And I will talk to you here about the very ambitious programme we have, the IPTO programme, together with the European Investment Bank, intervention of 450 million, in seven and a half parts of the secondary road network to avoid accidents throughout Greece. And that's what Egnatia does. Also, the "ENGINATIO WEBSITE S.A." will have a very important role through the subsidiary in the frustration of western Macedonia. So we're strengthening Ennaia. Second, where are the tolls going? The tolls go to Egnatia. The tolls collected today by the "EGNATIO BODOS S.A." go to the Greek State. The "ENGENATIODOS S.A." currently has a fund very large, which exceeds 200,000,000 euros. It has also exceeded some judicial involvement of the "ENGENATIO DIALOGUE S.A." with the banks. In the event of a concession, this money will come to the Greek State, because it is not a sale, it is a concession, two different concepts, which, I think, especially you, Mr Villardos, know them perfectly. And it's a pity to come here and use a political rhetoric that reminds me of times of an anti-immemorial madam. Another thing, then, is the concession - I give something for twenty-five years, for thirty years, that is the PPP - and another is 'I come and sell silver, I come and sell something and I give it instead of a lenty plate'. That's not what we're doing, we're not going to do it. In fact, as far as Spirtzi - Tsakalotou was concerned, it was almost six minutes per kilometre, and we reduced this to half, because we were negotiating again with the institutions and said, yes, gentlemen, we must put tolls, because the user must pay for the maintenance and operation of the road. We must, however, put reasoned tolls and gradually reach the level that exists on all motorways. As I said, however, these fall within the competence of the GOI, so the Ministry of Finance. I don't want to avoid answers. There is a very clear framework for what HICP is doing. ICT is a vehicle, which has undertaken to do the privatisations for many years. Whether he's doing them successfully or not, it's another conversation. I'm not responsible for answering you. What we have seen, however, is that the GOI has not delayed the process. He did it in December, some of the contestants went to the Council of State and we have a short delay of three months. So the competition's moving on. What the Greek State has to do is do. He's not laughing. We do not tell the institutions what the previous government said: 'Come on, sign here and throw the ball further forward, never put a toll, but sign it'. We, Mr. Villardo, when we put our signature, do what we say. We believe in this model of concession, we believe it is the right way and we believe that this road will be upgraded. This road will remain in the use of Greek citizens and users and in Greek hands, in the state. It will simply be granted for a period of time, as has been done with the "Eleftherios Venizelos", as has been done with the fourteen routes of "FRAPORT", as has been done with all that are not sales, but concessions. When the concession is over, this returns back to the public with the key in the hand, Mr. Villardo. And when the individual maintains them well, this asset increases its value. That's the reality. So it is good to be cleared up. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u148	Thank you, Minister. We enter the debate of the ninth under No 564/12-32021 topical question of the second-cycle parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on "To extend the "FILOXENIA" programme and cancel the evictions of refugees". Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u149	Minister, as long as the government welcomes the closure of the FILOXENIA programme, the consequences of this choice are dramatically manifested. Refugee families are being thrown into the streets literally, led to the constellation in the midst, indeed, pandemic, with what this may mean. At the same time, in the logic of a temporary treatment of the consequences, particularly in the days of bad weather, some of them were led to stay in municipal areas, closed fields, etc. in conditions of co-existence and with no infrastructure for their safe living. At best, they are carried into the already overcrowded structures and camps in the mainland. These are recent phenomena in Sparta, Grevenas, Saints Theodores, Eretria, New Philadelphia here in Attica and elsewhere. There is, of course, also the same treatment for homes operating under the ETUC, where according to the regulations of the previous government of SYRIZA and the current government, those who acquire asylum and the typical status of refugee must leave homes and hospitality structures, namely, stay without shelter and at the same time without income, without money, because your Government has also abolished the poor survival allowance for the recognised - I repeat - refugees. They have already been sent out of court to leave apartments, when they have not yet received residence permits or travel documents from asylum services and the police, let alone their safe movement in the countries of their actual destination. At the same time, the HELIOS programme - which is supposed to be the bridge between the asylum seekers' status and the status of recognised refugee - by the Ministry itself - is supposed to be an inadequate programme, and much more so, according to the official figures of the IMO, this programme has been completed in 2021 and we would really like to know what your intention is to prolong, continue and what will happen next. The results of HELIOS are to meet the needs of housing and survival of a very small number of refugees. On the basis of the latest information we had at the end of January, there were only seven thousand twenty-five refugees, having a series of outrageous conditions and unresolved bureaucratic obstacles. So we ask you, Minister, what immediate measures will you take to cancel the refugee evictions, to extend the housing programme to apartments, hotels and hospitality structures and, of course, to operate under the responsibility of the State and not non-governmental organisations, to ensure decent living conditions, to lift the unacceptable interruption of the monthly aid for as long as these people remain in the country, to pay recruited workers to all refugee structures without any dismissal and reduction of labour rights in order to absorb workers as permanent staff in the respective state bodies in municipalities and regions, and, of course, to speed up the procedures for granting travel documents and residence permits, and to make it easier for refugees to travel to their country of destination and for those who, of course, want to remain in Greece to take immediate measures to support them from the state rather than the NGOs for their planned integration into society, work and education. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u150	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, my dear colleague, thank you very much for your question. And I want to assure you that the housing of applicants for international protection and of recognised refugees is a very important issue for which the state respects and respects our international obligations. That is why we have prepared, in cooperation with international organisations and the European Commission, projects for hosting, housing and integration. I would like to stress, of course, that there is a distinction in immigration policy. There is a separation of the asylum seeker's stage, where under the Geneva Convention and the relevant directive of the European Union, our country is entitled to provide housing, nutrition and a minimum standard of living. This is why there is the national reception system which has six reception centres and thirty-two hosting structures in mainland Greece. There have been two programmes which have been used in the years of very increased flows. It was the "FILOXENIA" program, which was a hosting portal to hotels for applicants for international protection, but was the most expensive program that Greece used. The programme has been completed as the European Union's funding has been completed. There is the hosting program for vulnerable groups, the "ESTIA" programme in apartments, for which we have guaranteed funding by 31 December 2021, and then we need to review the possibility of further funding. From there on, after the completion of the asylum procedure, there are two cases: one being regarded as a recognised refugee or the other being rejected. In the event of rejection, the process of returning and deporting forced or voluntary, either in the country of transit or in the country of origin, shall commence. In cases where the status of international protection exists, there the Greek state is now suspending benefits on the basis of immigration. In other words, one month later, hospitality is interrupted in hospitality structures and the allowance is interrupted. But we have two predictions. One benefit is the HELIOS programme. It is a programme financed by the European Commission from funds allocated to Greece and implemented by the International Organisation for Migration, which aims at the smooth transition of recognised refugees to the labour market. But we are clear: there are no lifelong pensions and no lifelong roof for anyone. From there on, we enable recognised refugees to work, to support themselves, to their family and, of course, to offer the country in which they are hosted. From there on, there are also the more general provisions of the social state, which apply to recognised refugees, and we have a policy of non-discrimination. We do not see either positive or negative in access to the social state. Greece has a very modern protection system for asylum seekers and recognised refugees. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u152	Come on, Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u153	Minister, following your position, it really makes sense to wonder how you really mean international protection to those who have actually been regarded as recognizant refugees. This is not the time, we do not have the time to say about immigration policy as a whole. However, I repeat that we are now discussing those who have managed to pass through the tight sieve and the conditions set for them to be recognised as beneficiaries of international protection, to recognise refugees. For these people, then, what you are choosing - of course the European Union, we do not separate ourselves, we do not think it is better for the policy that the European Union is implementing - what you are choosing to do is enable them to find themselves on the road a month after the recognition of the asylum request, because the programme that you are supposed to grant them so that they can secure a home. I would like you to answer me, since the IM is said to end in February 2021, which is the next programme for the integration of these people. Of course, the allowance is interrupted when they are not really cared for by the state, so that they can learn the language, to join the job. And the language seminars, etc. There are very low participations, about three thousand. Of course, it is characteristic that you either tell them to get out on the road or stack them in terrible conditions, overcrowded structures, not only in the mainland, but also in the islands. And it asks why, for example, more than two thousand recognised refugees continue in Lesvos to remain on the islands. It may be useful for other purposes to be considered necessary to create closed structures of such a large capacity, as planned in the next period. But also from these people who have been on asylum in the past decade, how many of them are still in our country, in what conditions do they live? How they helped integrate them into work, access to education, language learning, etc.Huh? However, your commitment to the unacceptable European framework also creates another contradiction, if you wish, for these people an additional difficulty. It is very important that, if you like, the differences between those who have managed to get asylum and those who are finally part of the HELIOS programme. Apart from the strict conditions of the programme, which makes it difficult for them to join it, it proves another thing that the vast majority of these people are caught in the country against their will. They really want to reach other countries of destination and prevent them from reaching the unacceptable policies of the European Union, even the Dublin regulation which remains in force, but also the new immigration pact with the predictions, which requires the first country of reception to consider all these asylum claims. Because it cannot be considered possible for these people to reach their country of real destination this three-month period which they have, that is to say, to travel for only three months to any other country of the European Union. That is why we, Minister, believe that as long as this unacceptable regime is maintained, which prevents these people from reaching their countries of actual destination, which prevents them from lodging asylum claims where they really want to be, as if you really want to talk about international protection and asylum, these serious problems will arise both during their stay in camps and, of course, in the issues of their hospitality and integration into society. We believe that the Ministry must take immediate steps to address this situation, particularly for those people who want to stay in the country, to really make it easier for them to learn the language, to join work and their children, of course, not to exclude them from the possibility of education. Unfortunately, we do not have the hope that we will see it as long as you continue to apply the unacceptable conditions of the European Union. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u154	Thank you. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u155	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, first of all, I did not note in my prototype that asylum seekers after the sixth month of residence in the country are entitled to access the labour market. This also contributes even more to their smoother integration after their possible recognition as asylum seekers. You referred to the structure issue. Indeed, the structures in our country have been built several years ago. This is why there is a systematic effort to upgrade living conditions with the new structures, which are already built in Samos, Kos and Leros, and the construction will soon begin in Lesvos and Chios. I imagine you will support the effort to replace Kara Tepe, in which you know that conditions are not ideal, with a new accommodation structure. You mentioned the fact that there are still refugees in the islands. That's true. There is a small tolerance for humanitarian reasons because of the COVID period and the one month limit is not strictly applied to emerge from structures. I imagine you will agree that at the present time with COVID that this is an action of the administration self-evident. As regards the further provision of allowances and accommodation to recognised refugees as if they were still asylum seekers, first of all, this is also a matter of funding. And the funding provided by the European Funds, the Immigration and Asylum Fund, covers the issue of housing and allowances exclusively for asylum seekers for the period, which has not yet completed their request for recognition. The HELIOS programme is considered to be sufficient and perhaps one of the best membership programmes at the moment in the European Union, which enables one to find a home. From there on, the rent is financed for up to 12 months and lessons and language skills are taught and skills necessary for better integration into the labour market. We also have a special programme, through the 'HELIOS', for those who are recognised on the islands, which also cover sixty days of temporary residence, until they can complete bureaucratic procedures. So we managed to stop problems that were actually created in 2020, Viktoria square phenomena. Many bureaucratic obstacles that have existed in the past, such as the issue of VAT or the issue of AMKA, are now automated and receive them when they arrive in our country, from the first day, asylum seekers. They also receive a social security number and a tax number. There is a general policy of equal access to the social state to meet their needs. One final point, one contradiction - the second contradiction you have had, my fellow Member - is that you say many times that, on one hand, we are entangled in our country by those who want to go, as you say, to their final destination and then you refer to the conditions of the European Union. The truth is, the second is true. At the moment, with the international legal framework in place for the southern countries, which we met in Athens this weekend, at the Athens conference, Spain, Italy, Malta, Cyprus and Greece, we finally want Europe to establish a solidarity mechanism that is not there. Those who take asylum in our country do not have the right to go to other countries, but are entitled to three years' stay in our country, which is re-examined when the period is completed, if they still fulfil the conditions for asylum. That is the reality, and that is why the southern countries and the five Aegean islands have experienced this very great burden of the migratory crisis. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u156	We are now continuing in the circle of questions to which the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Kontozamanis, will reply. We will now discuss the second question with number 551/11-32021 of the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance Mr.Akaterini Papanatziou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Environmental need for the repair work and the energy upgrade of the Health Center's (CY) Zagoras'. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u157	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I had tabled a written question in June 2020 on the same subject, for which I have not received any reply. The Zagoras Health Center complements more than thirty years of offering to the local society in the region of Eastern Pelion and is currently facing huge problems in its building facilities. Repair and upgrading of buildings are now seen as more than urgent and necessary for the proper operation and provision of health services to residents and visitors in the region. That is why during the SYRIZA government funding was approved through the 2018 Public Investment Programme, amounting to 175,000, for repairers. The project was divided into three sections. The first part was the repair work on the health centre's building infrastructure, including housing, budgeted expenditure of 130,000 euros. The second was the replacement of heating systems, a budget of EUR 28 000. It is the only project, which has been completed at the end of 2019. And, finally, a new roof was planned to be built on a piece of the health center’s roof, a budget expenditure of 17,000 euros. The 5th Ministry of Foreign Affairs took over the implementation of the first two and the General Hospital of Volos the third. On 17-5-2018, the feasibility of the Ministry of Health and the integration into the ILO is approved. At the beginning of July 2018, we have approved the feasibility of the project from the 5th RCF. On 1-32019 we have a decision to approve the technical specifications. The first competition took place on 12-3-2019 and the bids were until 6 May 2019. We only had a contractor to replace the heating systems. The competition was barren for repair work. Then, in July 2019, we have a new decision of the 5th RCD with amendments to make the participation of stakeholders more attractive. Nevertheless, we had a second declaration, a third declaration, but again they were considered barren. The result was the 5th RSF with a decision of the commander, Mr. Seretis, to resort to the negotiation process without prior publication, so from the beginning of February 2020 everything has been stopped, without having any information about what is coming to the Zagora Health Centre. Thirteen months later, the only new one was the signing of a programming contract between the 5th RC and the Region of Thessaly in August 2020, but we still have no start of their work and their completion. Thus, in 2019 only the replacement of heating systems and the state of the health center, as shown in the photos, which I will present to you, was tragic. And I ask you, Minister: is there the political will to continue the work approved by the SYRIZA government? What immediate action will the Ministry of Health take to complete the repair work on the premises of the Zagora Health Centre? You'll see in the photos the roof. There's still a huge hole in the roof of the building.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u158	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u159	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Papanatsiou, obviously not a question of political will to conclude procedures, relating to repair work and other work, aimed at upgrading property structures and facilities of the national health system and, in particular, of the Zagora Health Centre. We are talking about self-evident services, which must be launched - as you have said, the previous government has launched - and they must be implemented. Health centers with building problems exist, there were, we received enough, and most of them had not even started maintenance or reconstruction projects. We have, in this period of time, taken care of and ran all the processes of energy upgrading hospitals and health centres of the national health system, so that permanent solutions can be given to the chronic building problems of these structures. In addition, there is a specific proposal for funding from the Recovery Fund related to the building upgrading and upgrading of infrastructure in buildings of the National Health System. As regards the Zagora Health Centre, the 5th Health Region addressed the Region of Thessaly with a view to concluding a programme contract. Of course, the Region of Thessaly responded to the conclusion of a programme contract, but only in terms of the monitoring of the work and not of the preparation of a housing study. And without delay, the sanitary region was re-approved in the State's "KITIRIAN INFRASTRUCTURES S.A." in order to assist in the implementation of the above projects by drawing up the necessary studies and their implementation, which it responded positively. The SCHER has sent a technical step to the Zagora Health Center for autopsy in their premises and at this stage is pending the approval of the feasibility of the project, launched by the relevant Department of Health. Therefore, this project is being launched and will be completed, fully upgrading the buildings of the Zagora Health Centre. As far as the safety of the building is concerned, let me say that, despite any problems, the vaccinations in the vaccination centre, which is hosted at the Zagora Health Centre, are carried out in complete safety, and your reference to the inappropriateness of the building is not applicable to the risk. If that were the case, it would not be housed in this building, first of all, the health centre and, furthermore, we would not have developed a vaccination centre there. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Clearly, the property infrastructure needs intervention and, as I have said, we have proceeded with specific procedures. However, under no circumstances do we jeopardise the safety of both our workers and our fellow citizens, who come to this health centre. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u160	Thank you, Minister. You have your dentistry, too. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u161	Thank you, Mr President. Honestly, I cannot understand either myself or the local society of the Zagora because it has not gone through this project a year and a half after the last barren competition. I have the opportunity to report that during the 30 years of operation of the Zagora Health Centre, there have been remarkable scientists and particularly conscientious health experts who - on the occasion of my visit - would like to thank them personally for their services. The working conditions for doctors, for the rest of the staff, with difficulties, the mountainous area, in difficult weather conditions, with the increased population from visitors throughout the year, in combination with the building problems, all contribute to both subsecution and disorganisation of the health centre. Imagine that for some time now there have been over-modern dental equipment in the health center, which is still in the boxes and, despite the fact that there is a dentist, because the waters are entering the dentistry, it cannot work and move to other health centers in the area. For a year now you have the legal right to proceed directly with the project. Because of COVID you have made direct awards to public procurement, but it seems that you do. The money from the Public Investment Programme is there. The problem, as you saw in the photos, has grown and will constantly grow. We expect you to show the same sensitivity as you show for other health centers and if extra resources are needed to complete the project. Also, the region, apparently, does not agree with your statements that it has undertaken the project. From what you said, as far as the study commissioned by the CIS is concerned, it is for the third piece, for the 17 000 euros. The previous study has been auctioned three times so far. It is ready, it should normally be possible for the project to be entrusted and for the project to be carried out. I hope that your promises will not be added to the promises you have made and to Volos Hospital since the beginning of 2020 for the recruitment of doctors that SYRIZA had already started. All you do is renew them every year, with the same promise. The indifference of your Government for this project is in complete contradiction, as you said yourself, with the definition of the Zagora Health Center as a key vaccination centre serving all Magnesia. I will not comment, of course, here - because it is not the subject of our question - that citizens are forced to move on a mountainous road for a hundred kilometres, with snow and fogs, to make a vaccine. No essential design! You have been indifferent and we conclude that very easily, looking at the "GENERAL" and finding the great interest you are showing in other areas of the 5th HSY, such as Fthiotida, where within a few months you have allocated funds directly. I will give you some commitment decisions in the Minutes for services and supplies worth EUR 198,269,35 from September 2019 until today. To conclude, I call on you, before it is too late and we have even more unpleasant developments, to deal with this issue, as well as the incomplete staffing of the Zagora Health Centre, which is in danger of becoming an agricultural doctorate in the 1970s. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u162	Minister, you have plenty of time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President, I will be brief. Mrs Papanatsiou, I would like to reiterate once again that the project has been launched and will be completed. Our aim is to upgrade not only this infrastructure, but also all the health system infrastructures and in no case to be selective - let me say - reconstructions or repairs to health centres. Everything that is needed, such as the necessary reconstructions, both through the energy upgrade programmes and through the Recovery Fund, as I have told you, is on the way, so that we can upgrade all the infrastructure which, as we all know, is, as we all all know, obsolete. In any case, not only are the Zagora Health Centre, but all health centres are being strengthened to staff and at this time even more because of the vaccinations, but there is clear planning in terms of their adequate staffing, so that they can provide the necessary health services to our fellow citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u164	We continue with the sixth question under number 568/12-32021 of the first cycle of MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Exclusion of adults from special treatments". Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u165	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Deputy Minister, the issue arises from a letter which came under protocol number 1425 in the Greek Parliament and from there it came to all the Members and to you. There are seventy-nine disabled persons who are denouncing the unthinkable cuts in the special treatments of people who need special treatment when they exceed the eighteenth year of their age and, in fact, their complete cut after the twenty-first. These cuts are carried out without any reassessment and without any assessment of needs, which are lifelong in these children, which is in complete contrast with the instructions of doctors, the therapists and the laws themselves, which define the continuation of treatments and adult life. The first thing they cut off in children by autism or mental deprivation is reason therapy, which is necessary to achieve the word and correct the disorders of oral and written speech throughout the lifetime of these children. The second is specific education, although these people continue to be trained on a life-long basis in workshops, day-to-day centres, structures with adapted employment programmes and semi-autonomous socialization programmes, which are compensated for by these related benefits. So the parents ask you to tell us why these treatments are being cut off. Also, Minister, I ask you personally to commit to responding to the demands of these seventy-nine parents and associations, dealing with disabled people. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] In my dentistry, I will continue with the description of specific cases, to understand the dramatic nature and extent of the phenomenon.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u167	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, first of all, allow me a brief reference to the current regime. Therefore, with the single EEA Health Benefits Regulation, disabled adults are provided with treatment programmes and individual treatments. In particular, with regard to the treatment programmes, in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in specific Articles, such as Article 27(5), entitled ‘Physics services by private providers’, Article 29, concerning the two-day, day-to-day and special education establishments, Article 30 concerning boarding and Article 45 on special treatments for children, adolescents and adults above eighteen, children suffering from physical, aesthetic, mental or mental disability, a daily nursing school is provided, including the program of treatment operations that are necessary, such as psychological support, educational activities, creative employment, entertainment and sport. With regard to individual treatments, in accordance with the terms and conditions set out in specific articles, such as Article 39, relating to physiotherapy, Article 42, relating to psychotherapy and Article 45, relating to the prolongation of special treatments for insured persons over eighteen years, following a report on the reassessment and scientific evaluation of their development and the necessity to continue their treatments and those insured over twenty-one years with a certified disability of 67% or more, following a reassessment and scientific evaluation of their development and the need to continue their treatments, it is now considered that. Therefore, adults over twenty-one years who have no certified disability of 67% or more receive treatments, as provided for in the relevant adult articles, as follows: thirty-nine physico-therapies, forty-nine eruptions, forty-one reason treatments and forty-two psychotherapies. At this point, we should point out that an annex to Article 45 of the EEA Single Health Benefit Regulation, specifying the number of meetings per therapeutic act, the types of treatment by disease class and the duration of the opinion on special treatments for children and adolescents, and not adults over eighteen years of age, has been adopted. At ages after the age of eighteen it is considered that the development of individual systems has been completed, that skills and milestones have been acquired to the extent permitted by each clinical condition and, furthermore, that the time of basic education has been completed. The therapeutic objectives for these patients are differentiated and focused on psychological support, maintenance as much as possible of the skills already acquired, in the treatment of new disabilities, in learning to use aids in cases of pre-trained illnesses, in the event that a surgical rehabilitation of a progressive disability is required and in the adaptation to new functional requirements that may arise in their daily life. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, shortly. The specific conditions now with regard to child care are intended to address speech disorders, control of the muscles of mouth and tongue, swallowing and feeding. At childhood, a programme is being developed for each child to achieve the maximum possible level of communication, given that adulthood stops the development of mental capabilities. In adult life, reason therapy as an individual therapeutic act interferes in cases where worsening feeding- speech disorders occur or recent nutrition disorder occurs - speech, or extrapyramidal disorders occur. Moreover, with regard to specific education, specific things apply, which, if I had time, I could mention with greater analysis, as I did before. I would like to point out that in cases of patients with severe mental and motor disabilities requiring intervention by a multidisciplinary team involving a therapist - specific teacher for uninterrupted and long-term support and not individual treatment operations, programme monitoring is provided for in the abovementioned structures. I must stress, Mr Arsenis, because I think you are mistaken - that the EEA is compensation for health benefits and does not grant benefits. Any allowances granted by the relevant bodies of the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs and not the Ministry of Health. Furthermore, it is true that both the health benefits scheme for adults - no one denies this - and of course the scheme of benefits.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u168	Minister, you have your second language.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u169	I shall conclude, Mr President. In any case, we are given the opportunity to improve weaknesses and omissions, because we want these benefits to meet the real needs of people with special skills and to correct the injustices that may exist. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u170	Here, Mr Arsenis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u171	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, look, I would like to remind you that the letter is addressed to you personally and that it comes from the seventy-nine organisations from all over Greece. I don't think all seventy-nine organisations are wrong! They ask what the committee that cuts the treatments is, on what grounds it cuts them, how they can object from the moment that the psychiatrist is giving the same opinion again and there is no difference in treatment and on what basis the committee is reviewing them. I would point out that the issue is the good operational situation for these children. I would really like you to go a little further into the core of the issue, because here we have a major problem. You also pointed out that there is a need for both reasoning and special treatment in adult life. There are many issues that the letter you have received that reaches the point of danger to the lives of these people if they do not make these treatments. These parents say that the state structures for adult autism are nonexistent, to a minimum. This does not mean that people with autism disappear. If the state promotional project has so far been limited to a subsidy policy, do not deprive these children, at least, of these benefits, creating an even greater gap and confusion from abrupt discontinuation of their treatments. I will read a specific case and conclude. A family with eighteen years of age was assigned to the "Egyptio", to receive an electronic opinion, as required by law. There, however, there was no staff to serve them. They were encouraged to go to private. And that's what happened after all. All of this, after a long period of waiting, laboring search and suffering from the parents themselves. After having paid the private psychiatrist and after receiving the electronic opinion, it is about a semester, without having received any response from the EEAS. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] After their own investigation they find the competent department, which informs them that half the treatments are cut off, i.e. half the treatments, without cause. Moreover, after twenty-one years, the private doctor informs them that he is not entitled to consult, so they will be forced to pass through the public structure, which he had sent them to the private and probably there will be cut off all interventions. They are asking what is envisaged, really - not what the law says, but what your directives say to the services - and if you know what services do in practice and how they implement it. Laws stay on paper when they do not apply. Here we have the services, which obviously cut the benefits for all the necessary treatments for children with autism and mental discomfort after eighteen and possibly completely after twenty-one. I really want, regardless of what we are going to say now, in this Chamber, in the problem, and in order to correct it, to see what you can do to solve it. It's about lives. It's not a political conflict here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u172	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Arsenis, let me once again point out the following: every state, every organised state, must ensure equal access for all our fellow citizens to the necessary health services. I think that in the past all governments have been trying to do that. This is what we are trying to do today, through health benefits from the EEA, mainly through the single health care regulation, which must of course be adapted to the data of each age and to the developments that exist, particularly scientific, and that is why we need to be regularly updated and adapted to the needs of each age - and that is what we are doing - and to the implementation of policies which have to do with benefits, which, as I said before, is not the responsibility of the Ministry of Health, but other ministries. And I will repeat once again that this is a dynamic situation. We don't want to trouble people. We must listen to these people and their clubs. We don't own the only truth. It is important that we have information on what is happening in their daily contact, both with health services and with the state's social and welfare services, so that we can improve their everyday lives and ensure what I said at the outset, equal access to health services and benefits. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, too. We continue with the second, with the number 541/8-32021 topical question, first of the first cycle, of the SYRIZA MP Rethymnon - Progressive Alliance Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The Henry Dunan" to dismantle the National Health System (NSS) from COVID-19 events now." Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Minister, I think we are in a particularly difficult phase, at the worst time I would say, since the pandemic started in the country. The image is undeniable. We have a functional blackout at the Lekanopedian hospitals. We have an inside lockdown within the ESS. Public hospitals and other public structures can no longer take care not only of patients with CIVID -19, but also of the rest of morbidity, to meet all other health needs of the population. And of course, there are conditions of medical warfare in the newspapers of the large hospitals. I imagine you have a personal picture too. In the face of this high level of health tragedy, therefore, let me say, in a measurable way, that the sense of society and of the people of the health system is that there is no constraint emergency plan that decongests the ESS, strengthens its resilience, prevent the Burnout and the complete professional frustration of the people in the first line and distribute the burden of managing incidents of COVID -19 in the private sector as well. It is not possible, Minister, at the time of the battle, that all the available health forces in the country, public sector, private sector and armed forces are not involved. Our proposal for a long time ago is to make use of an excellent hospital, such as Henry Dunnan, with high-level infrastructure, equipment and human resources. This proposal has been submitted for over two months, even before entering the third epidemic wave: To exploit as a reference hospital COVID -19, to remove the hospitals of the ESS from the excessive burden, which they are now unable to deal with and distribute balancedly, along with other private health units, the weight of care and incidents COVID -19. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Unfortunately, you didn't do that. You put it on the record - it is true - but for non-COVID - 19 incidents, and I hear that even this assignment at this stage is limited. It concerns less than three hundred beds available to the hospital and I learn that it continues to work as a private treatment unit along with the care of the ERC incidents. So I think you should answer how it intends to move these days, the critical, the next, the government. It is not enough, obviously, to retreat private doctors, which also became 'and five'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u176	Please, Mr. Comrade...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u177	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u178	It's four minutes. You've doubled the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u179	I'm done, I'm done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u180	There was tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u181	I'm done. Don't worry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u182	I'm not worried. Alas! That's all I needed to worry about!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u183	Our sense, then, is that there is no genuinely brave and decisive intervention to ensure both the stability of the public system and reliable care. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u184	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, we have discussed the question of the management of the pandemic several times in parliamentary control. Let me say - I have said this before - that you are exaggerating your assessments. Greece has been facing and dealing with the pandemic since the first day of the pandemic, and that is why we have reached the point where we have arrived today. In the first part of the pandemic, our country - displeased you, as a Qualified Opposition - received the credit for management. In the second wave of pandemic we made it that time. And now, in the third wave, we are all fighting a very big battle together, all the health forces. It is a single health system: state sector, private sector, military hospitals. All health workers - doctors, nurses, hospital workers - are fighting the battle in order to overcome the dangers. I don't want to go into comparisons with other countries and how our country's been doing. We've said it too many times before. However, we should see what is happening in other countries, where patients are going from country to country, because modern and richer health systems than ours have collapsed. Ours too, indeed, is currently in a marginal state, but it remains standing and continues to provide health services through an organised plan. This draft also includes requirements. We have enacted it by legislative act from the beginning of the pandemic and we have said it is the last weapon and we will use it whenever necessary. We did so on a structure order last November in northern Greece. We've been doing this these days by doctors' ordering services. There is an organised plan, so that public sector hospitals can manage this pandemic as well as the private sector can contribute as much as possible. The private sector will also get coronary incidents. You know very well - you are a doctor - that the biggest experience in coronary management is in the public sector, and that is why we have converted to a reference hospital the "Sisminoglio" and the "Red Cross", so that we can deal with cases of COVID -19 and the non-COVIDs can be dealt with by private hospitals, which will support these two hospitals. Because you referred to Henry Dunan, Henry Dunan has been placed all over the national health system for non-COVID incidents. Just keeps running the artificial kidney unit to serve the kidney patients, the oncological clinic and the appointments to the external medical services. Henry Dynan has been fully integrated into the National Health System on-call program, replacing the Sismanoglio Hospital, which, as I said, has become a coronary reference hospital. It is a difficult battle, and if we had not taken the measures that the government has taken to date, the figures would have been even worse and we do not know the situation at which it would have been. We have been in critical days and we all recognise the fatigue of staff and the battle that is being fought. I think that all together at this time must unite our forces, there must be a critical attitude, but we must help to tackle this battle with productive solutions, ideas and proposals. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u186	Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u187	I look a little at what you usually like to repeat every time, that you are doing better than other countries, etc. If you see these weeks the rate of increase in cases and deaths in our country, we are in Europe's first triad. There are weeks when we are first as a percentage of change. I am not now entering this quantitative part. We have a huge health crisis. To get over it, they need two - three crucial things. The first is to strengthen epidemiological surveillance in the community. Check the virus dispersion. Good tracking through a wide network of diagnostic checks and not with this - I fear it will prove - the vertebral of self-examination. Systemic epidemiological surveillance. That's what we need to check the dispersion. Secondly, decompression in the health system. It is not possible, Mr. Kontozamani, when at least a hundred and fifty imports of patients with COVID -19 are made daily in the hospitals of Athens, the large private hospitals of Lekanopedi, which have thousands of beds, have made two hundred fifty and the military hospitals no one. This leads to blackouts completely the public system. It does not strengthen the morality of its people, that is to say that there will be a provision of equal weighting. You can see what happens with ambulances who can't carry incidents. Why are you doing this? Because, my dear Minister, it is clear that this line of conquest and order does not believe it. You don't believe her! You have committed yourself to the clinical authorities that you will stay the private no-COVID therapists, that they will not have such incidents, that they will not be involved in the pandemic. That's your main promise. You promised the same thing to free professional doctors. Of course you have shown to them now, at five and a half, once the universe has started to collapse and you have forced and broke down relations of traditional political representation and alliances, which you had with these layers and the medical clubs. However, with regard to the private clinical authorities, it is clear that you have agreed not to be actively involved in this crisis but only to be very limited and to keep the rest of the regular function. There can be no two different speeds in the health system at the time of the major battle. The rest of the health system activity cannot have been suspended. Have you spoken to patient representatives? You are aware of the anxiety, suffering, financial burden, insecurity that they are feeling by seeing that it has been 'covid-stimulated'. The system fully? Now we have to make decongestion moves. Henry Dunn was an excellent case. You didn't use it. Nevertheless, even this involvement now in the Lecade newspaper, I think you should consider it a first step towards re-publishing this hospital. We tried it very systematically over the past period. It was badly sold by the Samara Government - Venizelos at Piraeus Bank. This was because of the bankruptcy of course and of the vicious administrations of decades. There was a resolution. Now is the time to play a role. Not the one that could and should be exploited - that is, - but should return to the wider public sector through a special regime.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u189	I think that if this is done in combination and if a serious effort is made with intervention in Europe to speed up the history of vaccinations, we can hopefully get out of this big crisis with the least possible losses. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u190	Come on, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Vandemeulebroucke, we constantly emphasise what I said before. I'll say it one more time. In these days, at this time, the National Health System is one, it is united and we all give the battle against pandemic: state structures, private sector, military hospitals. In the past twenty-five days, a thousand krone beds have been added to the hospitals of the country and five hundred beds have been added to the contribution of the private sector and the army, with the NIMTS Hospital and the Hospital 251. One can therefore see that all the forces are united in order to deal with this crisis. It is very important to say here that epidemiological surveillance also works. It is the tracking system that has enabled us to quickly detect contacts and to isolate or the strings or specific areas where high cases occur. We have thrown all weapons into battle with both random and targeted diagnostic tests for the coronary and, of course, with our recent announcement of the provision of diagnostic tests for every citizen, in order to be able to perform a coronary check. We don't make requisitions, you yell out why we don't. We've said it all along. He didn't need the first wave of the pandemic. Because if we had done it, we'd have thrown money. We are doing a task of structures and services now, and you are saying that we do not believe it. I think you should finally decide what tactics you will follow. We have legislated on the first day of the pandemic all the weapons which are currently, today, at the peak of this wave we have thrown into battle in order to defeat it. The private sector, as I told you, will also get COVID incidents. But what's going on right now? You are well aware that there is a cross-check of incidents in intensive private-sector treatment units in order for the public health system to deal with the COVID incidents. There is this cooperation with the private sector in order to deal with non-COVID incidents. The health system is not just COVID and has not been 'covid-identified'. 50% of imports into one day are non-COVID cases. We have to deal with these and that is what we have done. And when we did Sisminoglio and Red Cross this week, COVID hospitals, there are public and private sector support structures to deal with non COVID incidents, in order to meet the needs of all our fellow citizens. And I come in the case of Henry Dunan. There's been a lot of water in the groove, we've talked about it several times. Let's go back to the time when you were government and want to state it. Henry Dunn was not public, it was a private business. Let me repeat, Mr. Xanthe, how did you want to do it then? With a EUR 110 million loan, which turned out to be state funding, because it would be paid by hospitals and by the exception of the "Onauseum" from clawback and rebate. So the public would have paid for it. And you became involved as government in a private sale process in a private competition. We, in fact, work together, as I told you now, with Henry Dunn and we are aiming, particularly after the pandemic, to upgrade the structures of the entire National Health System and of course the structures of the National Health System in Attica. I do not think it is just a quantitative issue, to add another structure to the National Health System. We all know that the quality of the services provided and the efficient and effective functioning of the hospitals is the one, which brings the good results, the good outflows to the health system and, of course, the service of the citizen. It is not a quantitative matter, it is a qualitative one. In any case, I will repeat once again that the mother of the fighting is the battle that we are currently fighting. All together, all workers in the National Health System, a health system, a health region throughout the country. We will not leave any of our fellow citizens without the necessary care. The health system is at its limit, remains standing and continues to offer the health services that each citizen has to have. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u192	Thank you. We continue with the seventh under No 572/12-3-2021 topical question of the second SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Athanasias (Syria) Diagnostopoulou to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “Syrrhesis to supermarks of Patras”. Please, Your Honor, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I have heard the answers to Mr Blonde's question. I want to tell you - and you obviously know that - that Achaea Prefecture has been for too many weeks, months now, in the deep red constantly. This leads the National Health System to collapse, the two major hospitals in the region - and not only Achaia, but the wider Western Greece and the Peloponnese - that is, the University of Rio and the hospital "Agios Andreas" have become almost exclusively, especially the University of Rio in COVID hospital and surgery to be transported to the hospital in Egypt. Of course, the situation is not the best thing to use on-the-job terms. I will not talk about the consequences of this deep red in the region's economy. Elements that constantly come out show the impact on retail trade, focus, etc. But I would like, Minister, to stick to one thing, to the incomplete epidemiological surveillance, and I use in my question as a major example the supermarks of the region. From complaints from workers' associations and from journalists in Patras, most of whom are fortunately worthy of their function and are constantly writing that we have cases which are very limited, and on the other hand there is no serious traceability. So, this is a contagion of contagiousness and a supermarque shop is a little controlled and has separate sanitary protocols from the public for example. Minister, do we not understand, after so many weeks of deep red in the area how do we have other health protocols for the public sector? EVKA closes for disinfection, while in a supermarque only at the end of the shift will take place for a few hours of disinfection, without testing the cases that exist within a supermarque. Be careful, you probably don't know it, but supermark only controls the place where the case was found and not the rest of the store. When this is done after worker pressure, it has been days, so the dispersion is great. Workers are also transported from other stores of the same chain to this store and customers are not informed. Minister, I would like to know after so long a pandemic and pandemic in the area what will happen with workplaces. Will we have what the World Health Organization said from the outset: testing, testing, testing and strict traceability? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u194	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, what we repeat in all tons and in all the means we have is the need for constant vigilance of citizens, the need for great attention and compliance with all the measures envisaged to the fullest and all of us. From the first moment on, we have been facing this long difficult situation with a successful strategy. It is natural to have issues on a daily basis, because we are dealing with people and the work of the government is judged by the speed and effectiveness of dealing with these issues. For example, a mixed step was carried out last week by the General Secretariat of Civil Protection and the National Transparency Authority to packaging companies in the court's industrial area. It has been established and confirmed that the high epidemiological load was high and that it was immediately decided to suspend the operation of the company in all its infrastructures and facilities to limit the spread of the disease. I can assure you that the same applies in any similar case, without any exceptions whatsoever and in any coronary case. And that is why we are increasingly carrying out diagnostic tests and intend to continue as intensively as possible. More than fifty thousand checks a day, a record number. The National Agency for Public Health shall inform Policy Protection of the positive samples resulting from the carrying out of the molecular checks, which in turn shall carry out the traces of such cases. Responsibly and consistently, the EAFRD and the Civil Protection Policy are implementing all procedures relating to molecular controls and tracking, informing the COVID Register which is the tool for recording and processing these data. Therefore, there is full transparency in the reports on the number of cases. And because 'probably clear', let me repeat once again to all those who are listening to us, and of course to the National Representation, that every positive result of diagnostic tests on coronary virus is adequately traced and monitored. I now answer your question about supermarkets. For workplaces and for supermarkets there are specific protocols that are also respected without exceptions. The company must inform the EAFRD if and if a worker is positive. In this case diagnostic checks shall be carried out, decontamination shall be carried out and all planned actions shall be carried out on the basis of the protocols provided for. I'm talking about actions that are taking place in practice. Specifically for Patras, at the initiative of the administration of the 6th Health Region, diagnostic tests have been carried out by a mobile unit outside the supermarket twice in the last few years. However, at this point I need to emphasise a fact which, in my view, is even more important at this particular time. At a time when you are asking a timely question about cases in the supermarkets of your region, Mr. Anagnostopoulou, at the same time you encourage people to gather and protests and other similar co-morteming phenomena, which are actions of mass viral dispersion. The conclusions come out inviolably. I would like to stress once again that, for our Government, compliance with strict health protocols at workplaces is self-evident and that they are enforced by both workers and employers. Testing is done and will be done whenever and whenever necessary. Where we find a derogation from these protocols, we act immediately. We're conducting checks and we're examining every complaint. This is a fact that all our fellow citizens have been aware of on several occasions. We are alert and ready twenty-four hours a day with a goal, as soon as possible to escape, to defeat this pandemic. We also call on you as a party to tackle this hot social issue with due seriousness. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u196	Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u197	Mr President, I was expecting from you at least a greater seriousness and responsibility at these critical times that we are experiencing. The easy-made account you're trying to make for the demonstrations SYRIZA's supposedly calling, doesn't work, Minister. Tell me why in Achaia we have been in'red' and 'deep red' for four months. Tell me why! Count protests, measure workplaces, measure public transport. All the epidemiologists call it all over the world. Studies and analyses are carried out. Leave these cheap scripts for somewhere else, especially now that we're at times like this. We have shown great responsibility. People have tried from the first wave to help, to contribute to this effort. We were all together until you decided that pandemic was an opportunity for various policies. And I'm explaining. In particular, on this issue of pandemic, other health protocols apply to the public sector and others to the private sector, especially to big business. I'll leave you here in the Practical Newspapers, sites etc. Patras, who shows the situation in the industrial area, in large stores, if they were tracked, if tests were carried out and when they took place, in what period. So don't tell us the usual. He's made a tape, and it's not right in this crisis that we're going through. And don't answer me. Answer the people of a prefecture. I'm carrying. I'm a representative of this world. We are asking for the following tests and not individual liability: molecular checks at regular intervals. When a case is confirmed, it should be checked throughout the supermark, throughout the workplace, but also for workers, who have been transported to meet needs. We ask for fourteen-day quarantine paid in full and not unpaid overtime. They're putting the workers on a quarantine for two days, and the case is over. And there are other things that need to be done. So don't answer me that way. Answer to hear from you. Structure, St. Stephen's Penitentiary? Employees are out on complaints. Nothing's happened. We've got a string of cases. West Achaea: There was never any demonstration and we have an increase in cases. How'd all this happen? We're in a critical phase. Hospitals in the area can't stand it. We need you to tell us what you're going to do, not tracking, Minister, from the head of the store. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u198	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Anagnostopoulou, since the first day of the pandemic, the government has made it clear that it gives priority to protecting public health and public health. And that was the one, the only, main reason why these measures have been taken all along, which, of course, have social and economic repercussions. In any case, however, our objective has been and remains the protection of the health of the citizens. That is why there are protocols in order to manage each case, each case in professional spaces and wherever else it takes place, in the best way possible and through the tracking and care of our fellow citizens, but also with testing, which is constantly growing, but also in order to have a clear epidemiological picture in each region and to be able in any case to limit the spread and transmission of the virus. So I repeat that our aim is to protect our fellow citizens. The government has been taking concrete measures to protect workers throughout this period and has carried out concrete actions to relieve workers in both the private and the public sectors. In any case, however, I repeat - as much as we can do and, whatever we do, the most important thing is the continued vigilance of our fellow citizens and compliance with them. We do not take responsibility, as you say, for individual responsibility, because the concept of individual responsibility has to do with the responsibility of each of our fellow citizen and not punish him for not complying with the measures. Whatever measures we may have taken and the richest and best health system we could have had if the measures themselves are not complied with, then the results will be unfavourable. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u200	We enter the debate of the eighth under number 559/12-3-2021 on the second time question of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on 'Critical questions about the vaccination against COVID -19'. Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the process of vaccination against COVID -19 goes on in our country, but unfortunately with delays and reflections, despite the government's communication efforts to convince citizens that everything is going well. Based on the most recent data, which you have made public about 8% of the Greek population has been vaccinated with one dose, while 3.9% of the Greek population has taken both doses, i.e. it is considered fully covered vaccination. These are not those with high-risk underlying illnesses whose vaccination according to your statements starts these days. At the same time, the light of publicity sees information on delays in vaccine delivery in the European Union, including our country, as after 'ASTRAZENCA', now also JOHNSON & JOHNSON recognised that it is facing problems of producing and disseminating its vaccine, which are expected to complicate its plans to deliver fifty-five million doses of vaccine to the European Union in the first half of the year. At the same time we see that the Russian Direct Investment Fund also signed an agreement with Italy to use a factory in Switzerland to produce Sputnik. And we ask the Ministry: How many doses of vaccine are we expected to take by the end of the first semester? Is the Ministry's intention to conclude an agreement with other companies producing vaccines in order to speed up the vaccination process in our country? Given that there is a need for a resumption as soon as possible of the economic and social life of the country and since the tourist season is ahead of us, these people, who are involved in tourism, need to be vaccinated in particular. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u202	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, I should like to start from your second question concerning the Russian Sputnik vaccine and the Italian and Swiss cooperation you said - if I am not mistaken - about the production of this vaccine. The production of the vaccine has nothing to do with the disposal or any trade agreement, because specific factories produce vaccines in the world and in countries producing vaccines are both Switzerland and Italy. Therefore, an agreement to produce a vaccine does not mean that the countries concerned will take this vaccine. In any case - we have answered other questions too - the vaccines that our country has ordered are those which the European Union has agreed and of course any vaccine released in Greece should have outside the agreement of the European Union and the marketing authorisation from the European Medicines Agency. Product of time more and more vaccines will come to be added to the European Union portfolio and we will then see and depending on the evolution of the virus the production of these products and the supply of other vaccines from the countries of Europe. You know very well that our country has ensured quantities of vaccines to cover the entire population. I would remind you, as far as the vaccination operation is concerned, that so far, a million four hundred and twenty-nine of our fellow citizens, seventy-one thousand ninety-five five with the first dose and four hundred fifty-seven thousand eight hundred forty-six with both doses of the vaccine. The population's vaccination coverage rate is 13.62%, while 4.5% is considered to be fully covered vaccination. We consistently follow the guidelines of the National Committee for Vaccines which has formally presented a plan for the vaccination coverage of the population against the coronary. The vaccination centres and the vaccination lines necessary for our fellow citizens to be vaccinated shall be adjusted in accordance with the availability of the vaccines. We all know that today we have three approved vaccines, and since the next month, in April, we will have a fourth one, that of JOHNSON & JOHNSON. In any case, our attempt is to convince each of our fellow citizens to do the vaccine, to convince every fellow citizen of the need for vaccination. As far as the vaccines at our disposal are concerned, I will repeat them once again. Within the framework of the European Union agreements, we have secured two million 300 000 doses of vaccine for the first quarter of 2021. For the second quarter, the agreed doses of vaccines to be received are multiple. A total of seven million thousands of doses will be received. These quantities do not include the doses from ASTRAZENCA for May and June, as the quantities to be collected have not yet been confirmed. The doses of vaccines that our country will receive in the first half of 2021, two-dose vaccines and a single dose vaccine, are sufficient for full vaccination coverage of more than 50% of the population by June. For the third quarter of 2021 we expect at least seven million six hundred thousand doses of vaccines. It will be enough to cover 100% of our country's population. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u204	Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u205	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we really are at a turning point in the pandemic in our country, where the virus is riding. The citizens are tired, the health staff are exhausted and it is clear that the ban's measures do not give rise to the expected results. Our hopes, inevitably, are focused on the progress of vaccinations and should be combined with the controlled exit of citizens into open spaces. It is therefore very important for us, but also for the government - I want to believe - how the vaccinations will proceed from now on and to which groups. What groups, then, will be vaccinated and by what timetable? In view of the tourist season, we would like you to tell us what your planning for the vaccination coverage of people who will be employed in tourism is. Secondly, will the vaccination of groups already under way proceed? Is that the proportion of patients, staff in hospitals, in treatment centres and rehabilitation centres, in social welfare centres, in two-day, daily care centres and small private clinics with dialysis units? Finally in these centres how many people have been vaccinated and how does this planning go? What percentage of educational staff of pupils under the age of 16 in special schools and in Creative Employment Centres for Disabled Children has it been vaccinated so far? I ask you this because this all belongs to category 1 of the prioritisation of vaccination, but so far I have not heard anything. I don't have any evidence of their vaccination coverage. Another important issue, which I would like to raise, is whether the information that Germany has signed separately, beyond the framework of the European Union, agreements with PFIZER and CUREVAC companies to supply more vaccines is the case. Will we take less vaccines than these countries on the basis of these agreements? This is a very serious issue and we should consider it. And to say two words about these things that happen today in our hospitals, you are, in our view, doing a fragmentary order of private doctors. For us it means that you should also qualify for private clinics in order to be able to provide assistance to the national health system. The other big thing that came out these days is the firework this communication with the self-test invention. You also manage this, which you have made these days in the light of publicity, to have them all back in front of you, because there are too many difficulties, not only from the use, but also as far as who will provide them, whether there is a competition or not. Finally, this crisis management at the moment, in our view, should not be a fireplace. No communication measures can be taken. It needs seriousness, planning and involvement of all actors. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u206	You're welcome. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u207	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, I would repeat once again - I said it in my protology, but because you mentioned it in your denture - that Greece has ensured doses of vaccines for the whole population. In fact, because of the portfolio developed by the European Union, these doses of vaccines go far beyond the country's population. Under no circumstances has our country received doses of vaccines less than the ones given. A breakdown has been made in all European countries with an algorithm based on the population of each country. This algorithm has been followed by our country. Vaccinations progress smoothly. I will repeat once again that in the next period we will have more vaccines at our disposal, particularly in April and May, which will enable us to move on even faster, to develop more vaccination centres and to inoculate more fellow citizens in line with the draft of the National Committee for Vaccines, which includes all the groups that you mention, both the age groups and the vulnerable groups that have already been opened up by the platform for specific groups, vulnerable population groups, which will be able to be vaccinated in the next period. You referred to the order of clinics. Let me say that when we had to. At the moment, there is a cooperation with the private sector, which is expanding day after day in order to have more beds and to deal with incidents that we cannot deal with because of public hospital conditions, and we are running through patients in private hospitals. In any case, we have made it clear - I said it and in reply to a question from your colleague just now - that today the National Health System is uniform. Both the state, the public health system and the private sector and the Armed Forces unite in order to overcome this difficult situation and to be able to return to normality. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u208	Minister, did I hear all right? You said the third quarter will be vaccinated by the entire population?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u209	Yes, sir.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u210	Thank you. We continue with the tenth under No 565/12-32021 topical question by the Member of the Greek Communist Party, Mr Manolis Synthraki, on the subject: "The problems in Crete, in the process of vaccination for the coronary". Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, many are the problems in this critical process of vaccination and in Crete, as in the rest of the country, in all times, an applied policy which accounts for the full protection of the health of the people. According to government announcements, in November 2020, sixty-six vaccination centres were planned to operate on the island. However, until February 18, 2021, there were always, according to HS 7 data, only twenty-two inoculated centres. Mrs Borbudakis, the Commander of the 7th HR plus seven, has announced that they will operate until 22 March, i.e. until today. What are the sevens? Which one of these seven, based on the announcement, are working today we're talking about right now? In any case, however, the result is the huge obstacles to this vaccination. There are over eighty-five years of age, with serious problems of movement, with a health charge that is called upon to move tens of kilometres away from the place of residence to be vaccinated, as several health centres do not yet work as vaccination centres. The Lassithi Plateau, why is it out? You need to give us an information about the Spili, about Haraka, about the Sfakia, about the Anogias. In the meantime, there is no provision for home vaccination of people with motor problems. People of sixty to sixty-four years are vaccinated from 15-2-2021 with the vaccine ‘ASTRAZENECA’ only in seven vaccination centres for the whole island. It is TMY Alikarnassos, the Peripheral Hospital of Hersonissos, the Health Center of Chania, the Regional Hospital of Tavronitis, Rethymno Health Centre, the TOMY of Agios Nikolaos and the General Hospital - Sitia Health Center. I don't know if the Tymbaki Regional Hospital has started. The recordings were done. Has it started? This means that many are forced to travel, as I have told you, too many kilometres to be vaccinated. This situation obviously creates a justified indignation among the inhabitants of Crete and especially the inhabitants, who are from mountain and remote areas from the urban centres. There is serious problems even with the government's decision to get the necessary vaccination without any measure to strengthen primary health care, while the shortcomings are deteriorating and will worsen. On the other hand, we have a decrease of EUR 96 million of state funding for health centres. Generally it is questionable whether the already degraded and subordinated primary health care can respond to vaccination needs without suspending or blocking its other functions, such as examinations, prescriptions, medical care and rehabilitation and without closing regional medical treatments. At the same time, the operation of hospitals as vaccination centres is exacerbating the already difficult situation with recycling of the same discharged health personnel in conditions of dangerous co-mechanism, healthy populations with patients, with further limitation due to the lack of non-COVID functions. Apart from that, of course, both you as government and the Commission have great responsibilities for this slow-down in vaccination. So we ask you, Minister: what measures does the government intend to take to strengthen with permanent staff, with new recruitment and permanentisation of contractors in health centres and in regional hospitals to operate on a 24-hour basis, so that they can take vaccination without any reduction in their function in suitable areas and prevent hospitals from being vaccinated by the general population? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u212	Please, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u213	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Synthyakis, just a month ago on the occasion of your question for the Chania Hospital, I developed with undeniably the speed at which we moved and provided staff with all specialties both in the region and in the urban centres, hospitals and health centres in which the vaccination lines were developed in Crete and we continue to do so on a daily basis, where this is required and we thus cover the huge gaps that we received, by implementing recruitments to each grade of the health system both in primary and secondary and in tertiary. You referred to vaccination in Crete. Eighty-one thousand eighty-sixty-three fellow citizens have been vaccinated so far with our first dose and twenty-sixteen thousand seven hundred twenty-nine and two-six. The rate of vaccination of the population in Crete amounts to 12.9%, while 4.21% is considered to be fully covered in both doses. These rates for the rest of the country are 13.62% and 4.36% respectively. Therefore, I do not see any injustice or problem with regard to Crete. Vaccination rates are proportional to those of the rest of the country and this is planning, covering the whole of the country. In Crete, forty-seven vaccination lines are already in operation in twenty-nine vaccination centres, including several health centres and, from 3 April, seventeen other vaccination lines will be in operation, i.e. a total of sixty-four in thirty-five vaccination centres with a daily capacity of more than four thousand vaccinations. The confirmed vaccination date in Crete today is seventy-three thousand eight hundred forty-five and of the thirty-five vaccination centres the nineteen will be vaccinated with the ‘ASTRAZENECA’ vaccine and the sixteen with the ‘PFIZER’ vaccine. Today, the vaccination centres that are vaccinating with the vaccine "ASTRAZENECA" are thirteen and not seven, as you refer to your question. I have emphasised many times that the vaccination centres and lines needed to vaccinate citizens are increasing day by day, depending on the availability of vaccines. More vaccines at our disposal, more vaccination centres and lines will be opened so that we can get to open all the vaccination lines we have planned. Be sure that the Government and the Ministry of Health are particularly sensitive to the vaccination of vulnerable groups and will certainly - we have stressed it many times - for those of our fellow citizens who are unable to come to a vaccination centre. Mr President, I shall continue in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u214	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u215	Minister, the image you present is inconsistent with the needs and the epidemiological image of Crete at the moment. This means that we are making an effort on the part of the government to cover up the tragic situation in the public health system in Crete and throughout Greece, of course, by cultivating a kind of reassuring, that everything is going well, everything is going well! But that is not the case. Let me tell you what the viral load is in the urban waste water in Crete - I refer to 8 to 14 March 2021 - and tell us what kind of measures you are taking! Heraklion 683% over, Chania 1,000%, Agios Nikolaos 695%, Rethymno 136%! Thousands of two hundred and thirty-two active cases in Crete over the last fourteen days, i.e. over a hundred cases a day and over a hundred and twenty are the hospitals in Crete during the last few days. Only yesterday, the coronary nurses in Crete amounted to a hundred fifty-two, with a hundred twenty-three being in a clinic and the remaining twenty-nine in a ITH bed! These CIVID clinics come - you know very well - from a simple conversion of beds, intended for hospitalisation of patients with various conditions. And this has led to shrinking, merging, suboperative parts and clinical pediatric surgery, ophthalmology, surgery at PAGNE, ORL, orthopaedic, gethosurgery "Venezelios", not to list all of them. In other words, you have degraded the clinics, you have closed the clinics, and you have turned them into hospitals of a disease. That's what you've done! The COVID units are staffed by staff movements. Doctors of the whole pathological sector cover on-calls of the COVID units, overcoming the on-call cap every month, while continuing to work in parallel with their parts. In the last ten days, three COVID beds were created at PAGNI and Venizelio Hospitals and two at the General Hospital of Chania. In relation to the requisition of private clinics, there are fourteen private ICU beds. Therefore, the requisition could help to reduce the shrinkages in clinical hospitals and allow regular hospital surgery and surgery to function normally. Why don't you do it? The Psychiatric Hall of Chania has been closed for years in the context of the release. It could have been a year, at least, renovation, maintenance, infrastructure and equipment support, staffing with the recruitment of permanent staff and can be exploited. The Naval Hospital of Crete could have been exploited. It is clear that there is a need for large private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-private-privileged beds-privileged beds-privileged beds-privileged beds-privileged beds-privileged beds-privileged, central-s-privileged, central-sts-s-stststststststst-stststststst-stst-ststst-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-st-t-s-st-t-s-st-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-st-st-st-t-st-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-st-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-st-st-st-t-t-st-st-t-st-t-t-t-t-t-t-t- Have you done such things? Um, you haven't done it! Finally, to conclude, Mr President, with regard to the vaccination centres, three more vaccination centres were added to Heraklion on 15 March. It's that of Vianno, Arkalochori and Tumbakion. So, in total, our image says of twenty-five vaccination centres. You said twenty-nine. Tell me the extra four. What are these additional four vaccination centres? The process of vaccination must therefore be speeded up and embraced by special categories of workers, workers in supermarquets, large industrial units, teachers and food workers - tourism. So these are essentially measures and instead of the government taking such measures, they are basically following the stumbling block. Until yesterday we had three thousand cases, and you say 'open, open, open everything'. Until yesterday, you have beaten people and now we are "opening" i.e. foreigners. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u216	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u217	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Synhronakis, first of all, we don't open everything. Second, what do you want to do with the vaccinations? Shall we open up all the vaccination centres without having vaccines and say 'yes, so is it, a thousand eighteen that we have planned to open'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u218	And that's why you're apologizing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u219	Apologise for what? It is quite clear and logical what we have done - and I said before - that the more vaccines we have and come to the country so we will open up the vaccination centres and be vaccinated and the more rapid the population. We have ensured - I said it - vaccines for the whole population. There's programming, there's planning to date - thank God! - everything has flown smoothly and our country is from the first countries with regard to the vaccinated population in Europe and with the speed, which we are carrying out vaccinations and the number of vaccinations every day, we are more than thirty, forty thousand. In any case, we consider health to be a top item and not a cost, as you say, and we are consistently looking to ensure that this good is fully safeguarded. And because you are constantly referring to your questions about the need for permanent recruitment in the health system, we have made permanent and continue to do so, and we have also received a number of subsidiary staff - it makes no sense to keep saying the numbers, I have said them too many times and they are registered - more than what we had planned at the beginning of the pandemic. We have strengthened the health system's infrastructure, we have financially supported the national health system in addition to hospital budgets. EUR 820 million has now been allocated in addition to the budgets for the fight against the coronary pandemic. And within these critical moments, in this critical period, we are continuing and developing the health system. I was in Crete a while ago when we announced both the Health Center in Sfakia and the Regional Medical Center in Palaikastro. We have recorded the current situation and we know where to intervene and intervene. And we must in this critical, difficult period of time offer health services to all our fellow citizens, not only to people suffering from coronary diseases. It is not only the health system for the coronary, and that is why we have taken all these actions and cooperation with the private sector throughout the territory to ensure that we provide services to all our fellow citizens. I repeat once again that vaccination centres are gradually opening up. That's how it's supposed to be, and that's how it's done. We are aware of the problems facing certain groups of the population who cannot come to the vaccination centres. We will cover this need in the next time with a specific vaccine that we can go to our home place of residence for someone who needs this vaccine. During the pandemic period we strengthened structures in Crete and we will continue to do so. After the pandemic, we will proceed even faster so that Crete, which is an economic and, above all, a tourist city for the country, can cope with modern structures and modern and new health services in the needs of our fellow citizens in the region. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u220	Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-03-22-S1-commons.u221	With the agreement of the House at 17.15 minutes the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday 23 March 2021, and 10.00 at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work, according to the agenda distributed.
