ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's 20-10-2021 power, the minutes of the IA's proceedings were ratified by the Bureau on Wednesday 20 October 2021 with regard to the vote on all draft laws: 1. ‘Preparation of the Cooperation Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Poland in the fields of culture, education, science, sport, youth and the media’.]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Debates and vote uniformly on the principle, articles and all the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Statement of the report'. 11428- (97/6) Decision of 27 January 1997 of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund on New Arrangements to Borrow - NAB.' The draft was adopted by a majority in the Standing Committee. It is introduced to the House in accordance with Rule 108 of the Rules of Procedure, that is to say, those who object to the ratification of the Convention for five minutes and the parliamentary representatives, if they so wish, for five minutes and provided that they do not speak President of their parliamentary group. The House has agreed on the procedure. As far as I can see, Mr. Kokkalis, who SYRIZA has made a reservation, will speak for the same reason from the Change Movement, Mrs. Manolakos from the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Villiardos from the Greek Solution and Mr. Logiades from Mera25. The Bureau has been informed that Mr Velopoulos will also be given the floor. The Minister will close the debate. So, Mr. Red, you have the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the International Monetary Fund has been linked to our country with austerity, it has also been linked to the reduction of taxpayers' incomes. It's connected to times that we don't want to live again. At the first meeting in committee we also heard the former Minister of Finance present his experience from the International Monetary Fund, about how wrong his predictions of the Greek programme were, but also about some obsessions he made on the Greek rescue programme. Allow me to say that the question, ladies and gentlemen, is not to return and not to allow these conditions to be created that have been created to be the International Monetary Fund in our country again. We all despise it. That is why, Minister, any reference to the past must be careful. We must also look at the future. We have heard you tell the committee that Greece has become a creditor. It's a heavy conversation. Greece, ladies and gentlemen, according to the Minister for Finance of the Government, has now become a creditor. But let's see if it is. Let's see the kind of contract. I have heard the majority of the government say that it is a loan contract, that it is a loan that we give to the International Monetary Fund in order to join a form of loan. As much as that, Minister, this loan contract lacks one key component: it does not own the Greek public's money. He has to borrow from the Bank of Greece with the agreement of the European Central Bank. So, when you're lending, which you've taken on loan back, we can't talk about a specific loan contract. Greece is therefore not a formal creditor. But is it really? It's heavy talk. Is he actually a creditor? Has Greece now taken up the position of the creditor, when our country's debt, according to the International Monetary Fund itself, has been launched and is on a worrying upward path according to sources not of counter-population? I present publications of "KATTERIN" and "DEUTSCHE WELLE" which mention the alarming launch of the debt. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Is Greece a creditor, when it prohibits the Greek State from collecting their claims from general government bodies, according to the circular of Mr. Skylakakis? Has our country now become a creditor when three out of ten Greeks are on the verge of poverty? Has our country become a creditor when three hundred thousand houses will be auctioned? Has our country become a creditor at a time and a period of accuracy? I think the answer is clearly 'no', Minister. You are making a burdensome act that is the loan. You do not, however, present what the benefits are. You must present to the Greek people what these benefits will be. That is why the Civic Opposition will be placed with'residents', on the one hand, because with the money that we will certainly provide, third and weak economic countries will, on the other hand, be assisted, Mr Minister, you have not put forward any reliable arguments. The only argument is that the country's credibility is recovered. Allow me, that is not strong. You have not put forward any arguments for the benefit of the loan that you will receive in order to proceed with the contribution. That is the right word, Minister. It is our country which has borrowed loans to the International Monetary Fund. And because everyone has to understand it and I have to tell you a simple example. A family that owes commonly, owes power, owes rent, goes to borrowing, what does that mean? It leaves the public unpaid a family and the electricity and the rent. He's not paying and resorting to borrowing. What will be the benefit in particular? That is not what you presented to us in committee. The only argument is that the country's credibility is recovered, a general argument. Early repayment of a loan, yes, is a credibility recovery operation. In particular, however, on the one hand, when you go to a detestable, in the sense of difficult, an act which is a lending, on the other hand, you must show what the benefit will be. And this has not been presented by the government in a very critical period of economic instability and precision. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u3	Mr. Michael Katrin has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. If there is a mistake about the rate of withdrawal of budgetary support measures, there is a risk that the low growth rates, which occurred after the crisis in 2008, will be repeated. This does not, however, reflect a government which promotes the need for state intervention to support the economy in the midst of a crisis, but an official of the International Monetary Fund. We, ladies and gentlemen, do not detract from the importance of symbolism in the country's participation in the new loan arrangements, which is now being ratified by the national delegation. But today's process is being offered for a wider debate on both the role and the philosophy of the fund. And I think that, as a country as well as as political forces as a whole, we have an obligation, but above all we have the moral right to call for the change of philosophy of the IMF, whose effectiveness was questioned widely and strongly on the basis of the Greek experience. The Minister referred to the committee, I would say, in a disgraceful way without actually responding to our criticism of what led the country to the Memorandums and the International Monetary Fund. It was the era of Greek statistics by Mr Karamanlis, who rocked the credibility of the country to the European partners. And you will tell me: 'Well, we will still talk about this now, so many years later'. And yet, this 'black' period of government of the country by the New Democracy still accompanies us. The suspicion of Europeans, in particular EUROSTAT, because of this period, is still chasing us, as is apparent from EUROSTAT's demand to register the 23 billion of HERAKLE's guarantees in public debt. Yes, this "successful" securitisation programme by the government that "decreases" red loans to banks' balance sheets, not, of course, in the pockets of citizens and businesses, improving the conditions for the borrowing of the Hellenic Republic as the Minister of Finance said yesterday. And I ask, Mr Staikora: the possible burden of 14% of the country's public debt on the markets and what will it have on the Greek economy? The political climate, of course, today differs greatly from that of 2010, as is the financial data. There are neither twin deficits in 2009, despite the worrying admission of economic cycles and the International Monetary Fund to expand the trade balance deficit. The country has access to low-cost borrowings, and the banks themselves, despite their choice - incomprehensible to us - not to channel this greedy liquidity to the real economy, have given degrees of freedom and flexibility to finance and, finally, Europe has decided to re-equalise the debt through the resources of the Recovery Fund. Ladies and gentlemen, apart from the adoption of the law, our country has three reasons, at least, to participate more actively in the formulation of the policies that the fund will shape in other countries from now on, policies which, as the Finance Minister himself said in committee, affect European policies even today. The first reason is that we are now one of the thirty nine countries that support the second line of fire in the fund and not just one of ninety countries - members of the fund. The second reason is that we are the country in which the IMF has implemented the largest programme so far in a way of management, which has led to the question of its prestige and effectiveness by Europeans, and I will agree with this assessment made by the former Minister of Finance, Mr Tsakalotos, in committee. The third reason is that our country is choosing to pay off debts to the IMF. This, of course, means that our presence and participation in the Fund cannot be detached from what we have experienced for ten years, remembering that the fund is present in all the ratings of the country so far. However, our position must be particularly active in the way in which the fund implements policies and programmes that are experienced or are going to experience from now on an economic crisis coming up for help. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need a minute, Mr. President. All the finance ministers from 2010 until today have submitted their experience and criticism of the policies implemented in the country. But that's not enough. A white book of minimum cross-party consensus on what we will support, what we will propose from now on in our involvement in organisations such as the IMF or the World Bank, in particular the role of the IMF in developing countries' recovery programmes, which have been affected by pandemic and economic impacts, or countries facing financial imbalances and policies that should follow in these countries on the basis of our experience and modern economic thought. And obviously there are different opinions and different political starting points. We can, however, all agree that we cannot once again implement policies of a vengeance, policies with wrong multipliers or policies with wrong assumptions about the effect of budgetary measures. And it will be politically problematic to limit today's debate or not to continue today's debate on a self-sufficient finding that we have suddenly become lenders and that so we have freed ourselves from the IMF and its bonds without criticizing what we have experienced as a country, but also for what some countries will probably experience from now on and to which we will apologise several years later, but that has no special value. A wider strategy is therefore needed in this area which will make our country a credible interlocutor both within the fund and in relation to the countries that will be invited in future to receive assistance from the International Monetary Fund. On the grounds that such a policy could be a clever way of conducting economic diplomacy with geopolitical implications, we consider that this debate should continue. Obviously we welcome the upgrading of our role in international financial institutions or not. However, this debate must not be exhausted because of the country's position and the experience of the largest programme that the fund has implemented to date, but also because of the role that the country will be asked to play with another role in the fund in terms of and experience, but also in changing the philosophy, which requires a direct change of philosophy, of the International Monetary Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u5	Mrs Diamanto Manolakou from the Communist Party of Greece has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u6	It has been a bitter relationship between the Greek people and the International Monetary Fund since the memoranda, which have typically expired, in essence they remain. In whichever country they enter, they are poorly populated sections of the people and often are demonstrations in many parts of the world against it as an economic and political exploiter. That's why he's the most hated economic imperialist organization. The capitalist exploitive system established the International Monetary Fund to deal as far as possible with the financial crises of the capitalist system with lending to countries with high debt and a lack of liquidity. His measures of cruel, inhumane, profoundly favour poverty and impoverishment to many, on the one hand, and the profitability of European and American monopolies, on the other. Measures hostile to labour and social rights are poor for people through unstable taxes, wage and pension cuts, privatization of public utility enterprises such as energy, water, telecommunications and others, which expensive their tariffs and increase non-access to larger parts of the popular strata. At the same time, the taxation of pluralism is increasing. Experience in our country also concerns measures that are not transitory, but over decades. It is noted that in 2015-2016 the solidarity of the European Union and the International Monetary Fund was typical of poor people with wild austerity measures. The European Union, through the oral Chancellor Merkel, called for the participation of the IMF in the austerity programme and for it to participate in the evaluation - which is now of course the case - with the then President of the IMF stating that we want sustainable measures, which will last long after the Fund has left Greece. However, we also had then US Vice-President Joe Biden sending a message that the International Monetary Fund is definitely part of the solution and agrees with the President of SYRIZA in the need for continued and rapid progress in implementing reforms. Reforms were the continuous pension towel not only in the short term, but in decades to 2050, increasing the retirement threshold by progressive reduction in pensions, but also reducing health costs, as well as the squabbling of the incomprehensible wage, pension and social aid limit from 1,500 to 1,000 euros, but also other bank accounts for the debts of people's households on tax, but also the release of redundancies, the blocking of reliant races, strikes and others, while embraced by all this was the reduction of tax rates for profits and the reduction of employers' social security contributions. Of course, all this continues by showing the continuation of the New Democracy - SYRIZA governments to put dolphins on the level of life and rights of the working class and the people's classes. Our country is therefore a debtor of the fund. However, the government proposes with this bill that Greece should become a lender to the International Monetary Fund. Of course, in times of capitalist economic crisis the IMF is increasing the available capital. In 2008 to tackle the global capitalist crisis it was decided to take part in the decision to redeploy thirteen new members and increase resources by 250 billion euros. And in 2020 with a new capitalist economic crisis-0 still deeper - which, with the retreat of the pandemic, seems to be its size, the IMF Executive Council decided to increase Special Training Rights from 182 billion to 365 billion, in other words doubling. The bill provides that our country will participate with 1.68 billion Special Training Rights, about 2 billion euros. Will this involve ensure the country's needs for flooding? Will there be fire prevention and protection, earthquakes, floods and others? Will the public health sector be strengthened, the public hospitals, which, with their current strike, the hospital doctors are asking for this? Will school problems or accuracy or other people's needs be addressed? No, of course, because in the nature of the capitalist system and urban governments and the imperialist organisations these needs are drowned and oppressed. All three Memorandums and the signatory governments showed it. So the strengthening and participation of the International Monetary Fund in robbing the wealth of countries, labor and sweating of the people are harmful and toxic to our people. That is why we are voting against.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u7	Mr. Vassiliardos from the Greek Solution has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u8	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, as we have said in committee, the ratification of the current convention concerns Greece's participation in the increase of IMF funds through the new instrument, the New Loan Arrangements, the NEBs. Especially in the case of NEBs, we will submit to the Minutes where the funds come from the IMF, how much it is and what its lending capacity, noting the following three basic sources, except for its gold reserves, amounting to approximately 90.5 million ounces. Firstly, it comes from the involvement of its members through quotas, which depend on the size of their economy, secondly, on the multilateral lending arrangements, such as the NEIs that we are discussing in this bill of forty countries that we will submit to the Practical and eleven GAB countries, which we will also submit in the Minutes, where the latter are activated, when a loan proposal has been rejected by the members of the NEIs. And thirdly, they come from bilateral loan contracts signed in 2009. In turn, the quotas are being activated, after the NABs, after the GABs and lastly the bilateral loan contracts. However, 456 billion SDR already, Special Training Rights, namely, were adopted on 2 August 2021, supposedly to tackle the pandemic by increasing the IMF's loans totalling EUR 660.7 billion, which means, among other things, that it no longer has customers, just like 2010, since it would be funny to accept that its goal is to help poor countries in the pandemic, as the Minister said. In our view, of course, following the disasters and plundering that have taken place in Asia and Latin America - with its last victim in Greece - he will never find any more customers. Furthermore, this Convention was agreed, as we have said, in April 2009, where the NEIs until then amounted to 34 billion SDRs. To increase the NABs it was sufficient to approve twenty-two of the twenty-six members, i.e. 85%, while the total allocated funds finally amounted to SDR 370 billion or about USD 589 billion, after the addition of fourteen new members. The number of members now stands at 40 with thirty-eight candidates and two candidates, Greece and Ireland. Our first question is why Ireland, which was also, in introductory terms,'rescued' by the IMF, has not yet done so, like Greece. We hope the Minister will answer. However, the minimum contribution to NABs has been fixed at SDR 340 million, the amount being decided on the basis of the country's economic strength. A SDR today is about $1.40. In this respect, we have asked why Greece does not participate with this minimum amount, as it is in a much worse economic situation, compared to 2010, without getting any answers, as is many other questions we have asked. So, although we would never have thought of signing a contract with the IMF, knowing about the world's habits, his crimes better, for which we have written a whole book, his attitude towards Greece, and his huge mistakes, such as the multipliers or the wrong forecasts, which, moreover, has admitted to be official, but without changing anything, we do not understand why a country in our difficult economic position should lend money to the IMF, from the credit that we receive. According to Annex I, Greece will now have to pay for its participation in the NABs of this Convention, 1681.2 million Special Training Rights, SDRs, as we said before, a sum corresponding to around EUR 2 billion. In addition, Greece will have to repay its loans to the IMF of SDR 1.5 billion or EUR 1.812 billion. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] As the Minister in committee has said now, Greece is also launching the early repayment of some of its first bilateral loans with the countries of the European Union, the GLF. We asked here about the GLF interest rate, but the Minister said that he had no clipboard. So, I guess he'll have it today. However, in accordance with an article that we will submit in the Minutes, the GLF loan contracts of EUR 52,9 billion since 2017 began to be converted into swaps by decision of the European Union, from 25 May 2016, with the HDB’s Traders, the bond market, operated by the Bank of Greece and the four systemic banks. And these swaps have a locked interest rate of 1.45% when GLFs had negative interest rates if the ones written in the article apply. In any case, the above GLF swaps have interest of EUR 6.7 billion for the period 2017-2022, according to data from the preliminary draft budget of 2022 that we will also submit in the Minutes. If all of this were to be the case, it would be a scandal of the Greeks' mismanagement, and since these cash-flowers are not counting on the deficit, on the one hand, they would be about creative accounting and, on the other, about another scandalous indirect reinforcement of the systemic banks. Of course, it could be contradicted by saying that if interest rates increase by more than 1.45%, we will recover the 6.7 billion we lose. But then our more general problems would be much larger. Our questions here are as follows: First, why should the GLF be repaid if they really have negative interest rates? Secondly, will payment be made through the EUR 15.7 billion SSM pillow, since the rest are used in repos, or should we not touch them, such as the excessive primary surpluses of the previous government, mentioned by the Minister? Thirdly, will it have better terms and interest rates than GLF? These are our three questions. In conclusion, I would like to say that the bill contains four articles, the first of which is the contract, the second procedural, in terms of the accession declaration, the third relates to the granting of loans from the Bank of Greece for participation in the IMF and the fourth is the entry into force. We have asked here some questions that have not been answered. Firstly, why does Greece participate with more than South Africa? Secondly, why does the Bank of Greece not pay for the participation of Greece, as is the case with the Central Bank of the Philippines, Germany, Portugal, Israel and Poland? In conclusion, it seems that all this has resulted from the need to facilitate our lending by the European Central Bank, through an artificial upgrading of our credit rating. I stress the phrase 'artificial upgrade of our credit rating', because it is important. However, as we have clearly said, we have no intention of signing an agreement with the IMF, which has destroyed us, nor of course, to contribute to the struggling efforts to cover up the failure of the memoranda and to continue to confuse our country from the institutions. That is why we voted against it in committee, as of course today. I am tabling the above-mentioned documents. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassiliou Villiardos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u9	We'll be closing down with Mr. Giorgos Logiadis from Mera25. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's draft law we would call it "Greek Greece lends the IMF". IMF Special Training Rights can only be issued by the IMF when 85% of its members agree, which gives the United States a veto right. Behind the International Monetary Fund is the Department of Finance of the United States of America, which is the largest creditor to the Fund, as well as to the World Bank. That, in fact, runs the test, i.e. the U.S. Treasury. In general, Special Training Rights are issued on the basis of a share in the IMF and its contributions, and the quota is largely based on the GDP of each country. The interest rate of Special Training Rights is the basis for calculating the interest charged by the members in the case of lending by the IMF, as well as by Greece. There are many world power games in the IMF. His CEO Georgieva was recently accused of changing China's position when he was still in charge of the World Bank before moving to the IMF. Georgieva denied the charges and said that the report contained fundamental errors. I would remind you of another case, however, in which the IMF, deliberately recognised itself, made mistakes about the extreme and disastrous austerity policies that it implemented in the Greek debt crisis. We wonder why the IMF had to enter European problems then as a God machine, highlighting the inefficiency and substantial non-existence of the European Union. When you create a common currency such as the euro, you must also create mechanisms to deal with emergencies, emergencies. Otherwise, you hand over power and sovereignty to other external actors. It would be preferable for the whole euro area, together with the euro area, and not each one Member State - as the current draft law makes today - to increase liquidity towards the IMF. By extension, if we do not complete political and economic European integration, problems and challenges in a world of ever more globalised that we are living in, growing and suffering will grow. The solution, as soon as it is switched or postponed for the future, will become more and more difficult. We Greeks should also not forget as IMF debtors that the IMF loan rates are much higher than the international ones, making the IMF even richer. With the ratification of this convention, the government is being affected by the alleged upgrading of the country to the international economic situation. However, this is not the case because, as we have seen above, the quota to the IMF is based to a large extent on the GDP of each member country. We also know very well how large a reduction in Greek GDP has suffered in recent years, which has been degraded since 2008 by 25% and then by 25%. However, not only does this sanction tighten the country to the chariot of the sinful IMF, but it also causes Greek society, which is stricken after eleven years of monuments and the additional uncertainty added by pandemic and accuracy now, by increasing Greece's participation through the additional Special Drawing Rights in funds to the International Monetary Fund, corresponding to about EUR 2 billion. He said to our committee that the New Democracy followed the demands of the International Monetary Fund. I read exactly what you said, Minister: "And yes, the New Democracy Government, with a log in New Democracy in 2012, reduced wages and pensions in this logic, followed by previous and subsequent governments." Why would he say that? Because he personally believed it. Minister, on the one hand the revenue. But there is also a third road, the road to mismanagement, waste, inter-time, the huge armamental programs over time, the monopolistic situations that exist in the Greek economy, tax evasion, offshore companies, unreliability. The New Democracy, the PASOK - KINAL, SYRIZA have commanded the country over the years. So you're responsible. That is what you should fight against, not wages and pensions. Also, Minister, I say that Greece is now becoming a member, now it will help increase the Special Training Rights. You said quite precisely: 'Our country, because of the specific nature of the situation, did not accede in 2010 to the relevant decision. This is the case today, with 11 years' delay.' But to remind you that in 2009 Greece's public debt was 125% of GDP, in 2010 145% of GDP, in 2019 189% of GDP and 2021 212% of GDP. In 2010, therefore, with a public debt of 145% of GDP, we did not join. Today, in 2021, eleven years later, with a public debt of 212%, we are acceding because we are, he says, better than that, more stable! Only speechless are I following that logic. In closing: The deep bankrupt Greece, with the millions of problems, will borrow money to further support the International Monetary Fund. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, as you know, by way of derogation from the Rules of Procedure - we have established this - I will ask the parliamentary representatives if anyone wants to speak for five minutes. Let Mr. Velopoulos not be rushed. I know the Rules of Procedure well and what I'm going to say. While going backwards, because in the position of Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution Mr Hetas, Mr Velopoulos will speak - as President of the party is ahead - rather than go in turn. That's what I meant. The minutes don't change, because we're with Article 108. Of course, there is the well-known tolerance to party leaders. Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like to stress - of course, this is a daily phenomenon - that the seats of this House are empty. They're absent from the New Democracy, KINAL and SYRIZA, aggregations. That makes sense. It is also the annoying syndrome, because in cooperation with the IMF we have led to the country's bankruptcy. I say this, Minister, because I want to ask a rhetorical question to you: If a doctor, Mr. Minister, with his wrong diagnosis, leads you to amputation of your leg, will you trust him again? So how does the IMF with its often mistakes, as it admitted, lead Greece to the deadlock and bankruptcy, do you once again trust it and feed it? It is not just rhetorical questions, it is essentially questions that need to be answered. I cannot understand why we insist on not chasing those who were wrong about the Greek economy. I am referring to the natural persons, who are the Greek politicians, but especially the IMF, who made criminal errors with the surpluses, with the deficits, with the figures, only by creating bad impressions about the Greek economy internationally and leading to the greater recession and the collapse of the country's economic data. It is a question that has never been answered. It's a simple question that anyone doesn't know financially. Mr. Stavura, what does that mean to us? The really useful policy and really useful parties say what they do not want to hear from a bad government. And because you are a bad government, Minister, we will tell you things that will be useful to you, perhaps you will improve the mistakes you have made and correct them. As we told you, Mr. Minister here, as a Greek Solution, about the crime with PPC and Mr. Hatzidakis and you. You committed a crime, you shut down the lignite, and now you're scared of what's going on. So you want truths. Minister, your government is the government that invents all solutions for all uses with wrong solutions. Pandemic: we locked Greece. Climate crisis: you lock Greece. Fires: evacuation and locking. Flood: locking. So the government that has closed the logic wants to convince us that it has solutions to the problems. You insist that you be locked in incompetence and plausibility. You're not listening. I mean, because the truth is true and he's not hiding. Minister, do you want truths? Greece has been burned and the New Democracy has not made a request for assistance, Mr Stakoura, to the European Union. You know that? Evia and Elijah were burned. The Commission has informed the Greek MEP, Mr Frango, that he has not received a request for firefighting, while there is the European Union Solidarity Fund, the EIF. You didn't even ask as a government. Evia burned down, she burned Elias, there's still money, says, and to reforestation, the European Union's money for solidarity, and you didn't. How serious a government are you? In the Minutes, Commissioner Ferrara's reply here in the Commission to see that you are making mistakes. At the time the economy collapses, and we have an increase in inflation, we have a reduction in purchasing power anyway for those who know little financially, we are ending in March 2022, as it seems, for the programme of relaxation, in other words, because of the pandemic. We have one in three Greeks facing poverty and hunger. We have our country third from the end to a percentage of the population at risk of poverty, social exclusion. We have an increase in imports that prevents productive reconstruction. When a country is constantly importing and increasing its imports and exports are less, my Minister, you know that very well, we are leading to deindustrialisation further, leading to foreign exchange outflows. Where will you get the money to feed the Greeks? When the Greek Solution here and its President insisted on setting up a plan - to the Prime Minister, I told him, Mr. Tsipras - productive formation for the primary sector, to have adequate and self-sufficiency of goods, you did nothing. Nothing! When I say anything, nothing, Minister. Nothing! We're on our way to the unknown boat of hope. ELSTAT says so too. The final consumption expenditure in 2020 decreased by 5,5 %. Exports of goods and services decreased by 21.5%. With the new revised ELSTAT, the recession in 2020 was 9%, instead of 8.2% triumphed by your ministers and you, as far as I know. So we have one of the highest in the European Union, despite the EUR 24 billion. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to thank the rapporteur for his excellent report. What about the loan, Minister? You're always on loan. Loans, loans and loans. You have told the Greek people that these borrowings must be repaid, that you must have the Greek child you are lending today. Benefits are a communist concept. It's a confusing party, New Democracy. Karamanlis used to say other things, related to PASOK, but they make communist choices, subsidies. I have nothing with the JRC. He has a right attitude, in his view. I disagree ideologically. But New Democracy, with communist regular subsidies and debts in particular? Having money and giving benefits, Mr Stakoura, I understand that, but lending your Ministry, lending Greece, bankrupt Greece, and again giving benefits, charging more debts to the already bankrupt country is a vicious cycle. It's not a good tactic. A country with Europe's largest public and red debt to waste credits, to have poor pandemic management. See Sweden and Denmark what they did. Sweden, my Minister, has never made a lockdown and we have more dead than Sweden has. There's something wrong with you. So, the loan, gentlemen of the New Democracy, will you pay the children yours or the children of all Greeks? That's why we're telling you you're making mistakes. As far as the IMF is concerned, now that we are talking, its predictions are ruthless. I was reading it the other day. 'Moder budgetary performance over the period 2022-2026', he says. "The debt will remain in the region of 200% of GDP and 2022", while the government provides for 190%. If you trust the IMF, which we don't trust anyway, we have to tell the Greek people that we don't give it money. So I don't trust them, I give them money. Minister, won't I say about the reduced state revenues that the IMF says? And there's a point here about the IMF because of the accuracy. You'll have reduced revenues. The general government deficit in 10.2% of GDP. I'm not talking about it. They're the ones that you and we don't trust. Also, my Minister, let me tell you that the general government debt says the IMF 206,7% in 2021. Where are we going now, guys? We entered the IMF, the board, with 110% debt. I mean, that's self-evident. We've gone 200% and put it on. Something must be done by this government and all parties at the level of formation, planning, to rebuild the country. And to say it differently: To re-establish Greece and reconstruct Greece needs a plan that you don't have. You don't have one! [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] You know who it is, Minister of Finance - because you know economics, at least you know economics, some people who speak graphics from the government, ministers or economics know and are even exposed, you speak less, and that is a good thing - the fourth nightmare of a country and especially of Greece is: first of all, the current account deficit. Secondly, budget deficits. Third, huge public debt. Fourthly, an arrogant red private and public debt. The absolute chaos we have, the absolute chaos we have, Minister. This is a mess, how are you going to get her together? And you have tabled another management budget. And the question for me is why we have precision. You know, accuracy is too important to see it surfaceally, because people in here get 5,000 euros. Ask, Minister, one who takes 500 euros in fact. The 500 within a semester will become 420, since the accuracy is 30% to 40% over. Remove from 500 percent to 40 percent to see where his salary is going. Beyond the energy, we have specific cartels. Cartel in mobile telephony, Internet cartel, gas station cartel, supermarket cartel, dairy cartel, meat cartel, power cartel, everywhere cartel. You have made a party-party competition committee - without having a competition committee seriously to check, check the cartels and the accuracy. Minister, it's winter coming. You come from an area, Fhotida, which isn't too cold. I come from an area very cold. Florin and Pella, when it's cold, let's go to minus 20, minus 10, minus 15. The weather will get cold. The current will be cut off in many households. I ask this government what Mr Kaklamanis said yesterday - we have been saying it for a long time: 67% are all taxes on electricity, Minister. Why don't you reduce taxes? And you have a global originality you know: on the special tax you also have VAT. So you have a special tax, and you also put VAT on top. Look at PPC's invoice: 67% taxes on electricity? Are we a serious state? The most expensive current in Europe, we, our Greece, which has a stock of 300 billion lignite. At least, which has gas that was cancelled by the great Turkish-Government Mr. Dendias by his statement in Saudi Arabia, he said "We don't need natural gas", which has oil, and the Prime Minister of the country considers it to be old material, in 2000, when the oil covers his price. And we were telling you to buy gas and oil. And because you want proposals, we'll tell you proposals. Because we are really - and we mean that - in the Greek Parliament the ideological hegemony parliamentary group, because we are making proposals. It's not just opposition. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Primary sector: First, a reduction in oil taxes. The price rise raises the cost of production, Mr. Stakoura. Greece does not produce many products, but also for those it produces, the rise in oil and gas prices and electricity costs is increasing. Let us finally copy the tax model of the United States, which we have been talking about for too long, that tax evasion should be struck. But you don't do this. Instead, the country's Prime Minister, the media adored, made a statement inconceivable to me, because it has nothing to do with society and entrepreneurship. With doses, he says, there's going to be the payoff of superheat bills. Tell me where you'll find the money, Minister. Can I tell you something, Minister? The current EUR 1 000 - I say - is EUR 700 or EUR 600 or EUR 300 and cannot be paid for. You're gonna give him ten instalments. But he doesn't have money to pay for it. It's not working. Unemployed is man. His wife, himself, doesn't have a job. Where's he gonna pay it from? What's that logic? Where and how? You cannot understand that the Greeks are going through difficult times, that the man goes to the supermarket to get in his basket of five things and took five things, and now he'll take two things and wait for his child to get the milk and have no money for his milk. And it's not populism. It's the reality, if you're going out to society. And unfortunately, you don't understand that. You don't support production. Let me give you examples, because you have fodder units in Phthiotis and you don't know it. Listen, ladies and gentlemen, everyone you're in here. The cost of producing pork from EUR 1,11 per kilo, i.e. a pork, to have this live from EUR 1,11 kg - the live weight - went up to EUR 1,43. Why did he get up to 1,43 euros in pounds? Because the feedstuffs are up 60%. I have been saying for a year and a half to support the Greek feed industry and the Greek plant protection industry and laughing underneath the New Democracy. Listen: Sales price pork from 1,20 to 1.30. Damage to a farmer about 0.23 pounds. I mean, a pork hundred pounds has 23 euros damaged to get it and sell it with damage. How will they survive? Not to tell you about the barley - the Minister left - and the AMSTEL industry, the so-called cartel industry. It imposed a five-year blockade on farmers. Do you know why? Because by contract they made a few years ago the price was below production and production costs. In other words, AMSTEL's contracts provided a price of 17 minutes, Minister. I say it and let the company answer us. The farmers - contractors to AMSTEL - sold them for 27 minutes on trade. They said 'we can't sell them to you for 17 minutes, since the cost is 20 minutes'. And they sell them for 27 minutes. And AMSTEL makes them boycotts. Where is the state calling "AMSTEL" and telling them: Come here, man, you've made a contract that leads to the farmer's death. Come here and find a way to solve the problem. Let's work it out. It's a cartel. It's blackmail. Dairy industries do the same to farmers with milk. We are telling you concrete examples of how to solve them. We're not telling you it's happening now, Minister. It has been decades since, but you have been elected as a reformist government, a government of tomorrow, but you are stuck yesterday. You consider your state to be spoiled and you negotiate the logic and dignity of the Greeks. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We therefore support another move, Minister. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the President of the Greek Solution is ringing at this point.]] When you have increased fuel, Minister, do you know how much money the state loses? Let me tell you. All the North Helladic, unfortunately, are going and buying oil or gasoline from Skopje or Bulgaria. Florinna, Pella - I say Pella, but Pella doesn't have a way out - Serres, Kilkis go across the street. They don't have any money. They go and put them cheaper. The same goes for Turkey. You know that? The Cypriots do the same in the occupied territories, unfortunately. So you lose money too. Reduce excise duty, reduce oil, taxes for the Greek fuel to have the company fuel, so that the company will have energy to produce products. I'm telling you in a very simple way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'm hanging up here. You have made the country, Minister, all of you and New Democracy and KINAL and SYRIZA, unfortunately, bankrupt energy. We have lignites, we have gas, we have oil. I'm not talking about it. I've told it since 2007 in here, in the Greek Parliament. It's a reality. However, since you cannot do this at last, we can have nuclear power with a nuclear power plant, as Bulgaria has alongside us and is old. There are ways. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] France has fifty nuclear power plants. Germany has lignite mines, it has lignite in factories. In Ptolemais, Minister, he gave the Greek state - listen - to new potions of 1,300,000,000. The Greek state paid them. You paid them - not personally - the Ministry of Finance and PPC to put special filters in order to have fewer pollutants and the Prime Minister comes out and cancels 1,300,000, 000, which was given to the filters, saying that "for us lignite end". In laughing at this, the Minister and the Germans from below wondered and told him why. "You Germans will work," he says. But, the Greeks? Greeks will have another job in Kosani, another job in Megalopolis. What's gonna happen? Nuclear scientists? What about the PPC workers, Mr. Stakoura? You tell me. You'll have them digging, for example, down the street. What will these people do? Where will they work? Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the survival of a country depends on its energy reserves, raw materials, food and water. That's all you've done. All you have done is borrow and even the more you borrow, the more the country is trapped in a cylony, a straitjacket of death and you don't understand it. We have an energy network, but it is sensitive, ladies and gentlemen. Can I tell you what I mean, Minister? Listen to me. It's raining, the current's off. It's blowing. The power's off. It's snowy, the current's off. Liquid, the current's off. Lightning, power cuts. It is because in PPC, for thirty years, all governments have done nothing to upgrade it, reaped it and sold it for free. PPC will return to its natural environment in the state. There's no other way. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Minister, a year ago I told the Prime Minister here about saving gas and oil on the occasion of the price launch. If we were to buy, Minister, EUR 1 billion - I say for a pre-market - you know how it is done, not buy it, and save it, there is another way to save it, and I will tell you soon because I know it very well - with the increase from $20 to $100 we would have a profit of $4 billion. He was going to five billion. We'd have five billion now ready. After a billion to 20 bucks, how much do you do? Simple method of three, Minister of Finance. It's not a big deal. You know that. You'd catch the 5 billion, which means I'd have 4 billion euros in my hand to share with the farmer, the farmer, the pensioner, the stolen pensions, in the wide popular layers. You didn't. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I offered you two things, Minister. To you, not to the Prime Minister. We have presented a study here in Parliament - but no one understands, no one is interested in it - to take advantage of the exhausted deposit in southern Kavala to store. Mr. Secretary, write it down. It's the only underground gas storage area in the country. There is. We did this, Mr. Alexiadis, with Mr. Maniotis. In 2010-2011, I worked as a Member of Parliament with Mr Maniotis to talk about oil and natural gas. Ellas has basement space to make storage. He matured the project in 2013. Ask Mr. Maniotis. PASOK has elections now. Involved in projects of common European interest, PSIS. The project had an expected operation in 2018 and you did nothing either you or you and today we have no warehouses. That's who you are. A Member of Parliament at that time, Velopoulos and Minister Manatis were fighting and you did nothing. In today's energy storm, we would have had a reduction in the gas price by storage and the project has not yet been entrusted. We would then win EUR 10 to 20 billion if we had stored natural gas, as one Member had said at the time, Velopoulos, and a Minister, the Maniotis. That means a political prediction, Minister. The right leaders aren't after developments from behind. The leader himself creates developments and must be positive. That's our difference. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Secondly, we told you about pre-marketing, buying oil - I mentioned it before - at $20 a barrel. Now he's approaching 100. It's going to be 200. What are you doing now? You would ask the European Union to make all the countries together a fight to save gas. But France that signs with us, Minister, has nuclear power. 71% of her energy is covered by nuclear power. He's got 51 nuclear power plants. Are we the same as France? We are the only country, Mr Minister, to hear originality, ladies and gentlemen, which has gas, does not extract it, has lignites, bury them, has oil, depreciates the Prime Minister and depends on Turkey, Albania, Skopje energy. Crime, wrong. Drag behind developments. We told you: Do not close lignites, do not close the country's energy decommissioning. Ladies and gentlemen, as a Greek solution, Mr Stavoura, we are not investing in false ideas, we are not investing in fake ideologies. We invest in the Greek, we invest in the man, we invest in the plan. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Our logic, ladies and gentlemen, is the logic of a man with a sense of mind. We are the party of logic, the party of rationalism, the party of proposals. We say this: We must fight for what we love, because if you do not fight what you love and for what you love, you will cry for what you lose. That is our reason and we do not want to cry neither Greece nor the Greeks. We want the Greeks to be proud, decent and I say it in the New Democracy that maintains a far-reaching liberal logic. Societies and people are always blossoming and progressing, Mr Stakoura, only when citizens are involved in the collective effort, only when the citizen feels part of society and part of what they decide about the future of his own. In the opportunities and the equal distribution of fruits of progress, each Greek must participate separately. All Greeks must win from the struggle they make for their homeland. Give the Greeks a chance. Do not distribute fruits of efforts by the Greeks to the few folklores but to the many Greeks who are hungry. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The Greek is not worth hunger. The Greek deserves the best, and the Greek Solution will give him the solution for the best. In the next election, you will get the message and it will be resentable for you but good for your country. He'll vote Greek.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u13	Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Stavoura, in the opinion of Mera25, has said so, Mr Logiades, I will not tire you - with the ratification, of course, of this Convention, your government is taking on an allegedly upgrade - I read here - of the international economic situation. You know, people laugh outside, Mr. Stakoura, as the economy collapses, the country collapses, especially whatever mathematics you make public, people live in their homes with their little income. They can't be fooled. However, the convention, Mr Stavoura, not only does it tie our country tighter with the sinful International Monetary Fund - which you know what it is doing, entering and occupying countries, that is what it does - but at the same time you are causing with this convention in our opinion and the Greek society, which, because of you - and you, in general, have been struggling for eleven years. Moreover, the pandemic we are going through adds the uncertainty, eventually increasing with today's convention - a pandemic, amidst economic collapse - which you are bringing us today to vote through special drawing rights on the funds we are lending. Let the world know what surrealism means in your kitchen too. It means that Greece will lend funds to the IMF, which correspond to the current data at EUR 1,380 000, Mr President. That's what I had to say, and whoever understood, he understood. Mr Stavoura, as Parliamentary spokesman, I will personally tell you that yesterday you spoke to the committee - which I was too - and say that you dare, that you are the first Minister of Finance to discuss publicly on television, the world, the economy and the liquidity in the economy, and that you are the only Prime Minister who dares, because you have arguments against all the opposition that he does not have. We both know why you dare. You don't dare what you're saying. You dare because you know that under the Rules of Procedure you will speak last and not just speak last - it is not your fault, it is your fault - but during which you will speak last, you will be able to say what you want, without anyone being able to take the floor to counter-compensate or disprove you. There was a clear question from the President of Parliament to you, Mr Stakoura, yesterday and it was very clear. Do you commit that 12 or 23 billion - if you sign the new guarantee for red loans to banks in the predators funds - will not be entered in our public debt? You really didn't answer. When I personally pushed you, you told me 'I am not in a position to be sure about it'. How do we take that? You're the Minister of National Economy. We must obviously understand it as 'to be registered'. That's what I understand. And because, obviously, the question that comes back from Mr Varoufakis is'squeezing' in some way, what have you done? You flew again, unfortunately - I am sorry to say this - once again the ball on the platform. The platform is called 2015. It is a well-known platform in the Greeks. It's the seat of slander. I'm not saying you're a slander. I say for years you have been slandering with this platform. That's where you throw the ball all the time for Mr. Varoufakis to be slandered. But this time, Mr Stakoura, the platform was too far away and you had to take a reasonable leap in order to be able to justify unjustified. So what did you say? Did you say, "Did Mr. Varoufakis dare give up on us for guarantees when his six-month negotiation forced the next government to demand that the institutions guarantee it of ECU 85 billion?" The next one, Mr. Stakoura. Not the government that Mr. Varoufakis participated in. Isn't that a ball drop on the platform, Mr. Stakoura? You are talking about a six-month negotiation when Mr Varoufakis and Prime Minister of the country was Mr Alexis Tsipras. For a negotiation that at the end of the six months the Prime Minister pulled the rug under his negotiator's feet. He was licensed in the common sense. And when he conspired, the institutions, since he was codified and worshiped, like all of you memorialists, wore him a guarantee hat of 85 billion. Not Mr. Varoufakis. He didn't configure. He, Mr. Stavoura, had put so much pressure on the institutions that Jean-Claude Yunker retired in his first interview said "we would never fly out of the euro Greece. We didn't have the chance. It would cost us a trillion, while the cut they demanded would cost us 100 billion. It's just math. Mr. Jean-Claude Yunker said it, not me. Once they're demilitarised, they're disgusting to you because they have issues with their conscience. And, of course, I would remind you that what Mr Varoufakis has not done, you have done so, Mr Stakoura. Your resignation. But you yourself voted for the third memorandum of SYRIZA that Mr Varoufakis did not vote for. The last thing I have to say to you and leave with it, Mr President, is our permanent inclination. If you want the truth to shine and do not mock society: an examination of things for all the Memorandums today, now. Otherwise you must remain silent forever, Mr Stakoura. And you and your government. To shine the truth. He should go to jail. Every rascal on his bench. Is Varoufakis going or is Samaras and Mitsotakis going? Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u15	Mr. Karathanasopoulos, will you take the floor?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u16	Yes, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u17	As to the starting point, however, my dear Clonah, for how we entered the memorials, you forgot that before Samaras and Tsipras there was another Prime Minister who put us in the memorials.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u18	I remember.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u19	But you didn't say so. I remind you. Come on, Mr. Karathanasopus. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u20	Thank you, Mr President. Of course, we understand the embarrassment of a series of parties, such as SYRIZA, the Change Movement, but also Mr Velopoulos, who, as a member of LAOS, supported governments that applied memoranda. We also understand the participation of the IMF and the difficulties they have to justify. Why exactly? Because of course the International Monetary Fund is nothing but the world's economic hawk in cooperation with the military hawk, which is NATO. Both of these hawks together want to actually shield the capitalist system. And of course, first of all, the interests of the strong imperialist centres. In this respect, therefore, the International Monetary Fund intervenes decisively in the capitalist crises, in order to finance capitalist economies that are in difficulty, and this funding is being financed with burdensome, heavy anti-grassroots terms and measures. Indeed, these measures are not temporary, but they are time-consuming and, in essence, form mechanisms for the reproduction of a very cheap labour force, without labour, insurance and trade rights, measures that go ahead in the context of the reduction of social costs, the formation of a definite urban state, providing health, education, welfare, culture, sport and their place of origin turns a network of protection for the most vulnerable peoples against poverty and impoverishment with benefits of a prosperous nature. And from this point of view, Mr Velopoulos, privileged allowances characterise capitalism and not, of course, that it is a communist measure which accused New Democracy. It is, above all, a choice of the capitalist system for the redistribution of poverty into vulnerable grassroots strata. On the contrary, the JRC is demanding that workers be able, through their work, to satisfy all their modern and enlarged needs, but the capitalist system itself bans it, by expanding the gap between social inequalities, by concentrating and accumulating wealth in less and less hands and by creating extensive layers of absolute or relative impoverishment of popular strata. In this respect, therefore, Greece and the Greek people, the working class of our country has experienced very hard in its mind what it means to the International Monetary Fund, which together with the European Union, has shaped the three memoranda through which the objectives were no other than how we will shape the conditions to shield the competitiveness of business groups, profitability and to move to a new era of capitalist development. And from this point of view, there is an attempt - as Mr Tsakalotos has done in committee - to make a distinction between good and bad. The question is not whether the people will lose through taxation and bloody primary surpluses or through the reduction of expenditure, as the International Monetary Fund or the European Union have been pushing for. They jointly formed these Memorandum Programmes and are, of course, responsible for the evolution of things and the enormous attack that the popular strata have taken on in our country. And so, Minister, it is the shortest joke in recent days, what you have said about the social sensitivity of the International Monetary Fund, in relation to a number of measures and decisions it takes. All this will be very expensive and will be paid to the people of the regions. So what the Memorandums have imposed on our country is nothing but the implementation of the strategic choices of the so-called European acquis and the best solutions at Union level to shield the competitiveness of business groups and their profitability, based in substance on two axes: firstly, the anti-grassroots, anti-grass attacks, overturning their jobs and insurance rights, with tax raids on the people and reducing social costs, on the other hand, and on the other hand, support for business groups through tax exemptions, through the brave state funding, from the commercialisation of social sectors and the development of new areas of action in the capital so as to ensure their maximum profitability, from the spatial planning that meets the needs of investment and business groups to concentrate and change the use of land for the benefit of capital. From this point of view, it is clear that this convention which comes is not for the benefit of the people, nor does it, as they appear, upgrade the Greek economy. Why, what kind of upgrading of the Greek economy is it when workers are forced to work two or three hours, work without hours at eight hours, work on hunger and impoverishment wages? On the other hand, it can upgrade the position of business groups and monopolistic groups. But that is on the opposite side of our visa. And from this point of view we are voting against the convention. We call on the people to organise their struggle and to collide with the monopolies and capital, with the European Union and the International Monetary Fund which shape this environment of attack on it. These are the real responsibility behind them, and against them they must strive to fight it in such a way that its position does not deteriorate any further, that it is of a temporary character within the framework of more fundamental ruptures and reversals, that is to say, by making the conditions for power to change hands and from the essence of capital and the ruling order to pass into the hands of the working class and the rest of the people's strata, by organising the economy with a focus on the satisfaction of the people's needs. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u21	Mr Alexiadis, SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. It would be a very good opportunity today to discuss the account of a decade of memorial barbarism and what has happened. It would be a great opportunity to discuss this convention today with the IMF and because of developments in KINAL. My question remains, I will make it public, if the various leaders of the leadership agree that the government of Samaras - Venizelos was the blessing and the necessary thing to do or not, and what they will do the next day. However, we will have to discuss this for a long time. But as far as the convention is concerned, in the five-minute period that I have - and I thank you, Mr President, for having this, because I understand the subject of the Rules of Procedure - I cannot say much. But it is an opportunity and we must at some point discuss this House for this decade of barbarism, which has led the country to these situations. A barbarity that we have suffered, because certain political forces and certain politicians have led the country to bankruptcy and destruction. However, I should like to come to the specific points. And because, Minister, it is a fresh memory from yesterday's Committee on Economic Affairs, you must understand that political criticism is not a personal criticism, to respond with such intense sense, with personal attacks and other things, as you did yesterday. We are going to make political criticisms and do nothing to convince us to put it down and call it public. And it may bother you that every time we remind you of how few Members are here - only the Parliamentary Representative and the rapporteur are today from New Democracy - to support your bill, but that is not our problem. If the Members of the New Democracy have anything to do with the KINAL elections or something - because that sounds - this is your problem and not ours, to sort it out. Solve it and don't attack SYRIZA because it says so. Of course we'll say it again. But let's come to the bill. What we are talking about today is a loan that the bank will receive from the Bank of Greece, increasing public debt. This is the title when we go home and ask the family what we discussed today in the House. We go to the General Accounting Report, which I always read diligently and because of past service, but also because that is where you get very useful information. It says, therefore, that the relevant Director-General: “The proposed provisions take the form of a possible increase in revenue on account of the payment by the IMF of the anticipated interest on the loan,” note, “if the amount of what is received by the Greek State is higher than that paid to the Bank of Greece”.” Let's do a translation. So, is there any chance we're gonna go out and get hurt? Make that clear. We are not talking about 1 and 2 million here. We're talking about 2 billion, 2 billion non-cost, 2 billion that compared to their interest and interest rates have a great impact. And you can't step on two boats and say: I don't have to give the sanitary, I don't have to give there, I don't have to give there, but I'm moving on in such situations. And since I said about the Bank of Greece, I wanted to talk about other issues, but I cannot avoid, Minister, asking you a question despite the fact that you took the floor yesterday, you soaked us like undetected students that we did not notice the matter, that we were out of the question, a thousand two. You will tell us today, because you have the same choice in closing your places. We respect it. There is a difficulty in finding another theme, but you will do it today. But answer the question. Because yesterday, in answer to my question, the representative of the Bank of Greece said something very important - clarify this today - which I imagine you as the Minister of Finance know. So, in answer to the question, we have taken as a financing country from the Eurosystem for the pandemic of 47 billion - I say again, we have received 47 billion from the Eurosystem for the pandemic - of which 37 billion are deposited with the Bank of Greece. Excuse me, is that how we deal with the pandemic? What are you going to do about them? So this whole story and all this arguments are for 37 billion deposited with the Bank of Greece, 2 billion must be available and the rest of the liquidity pillows? You realise that despite communication support, propaganda, advertising, what you say, some time the truth cannot be hidden. Thank you very much for your time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr Alexiadis. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u24	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I shall make a joint statement. We have another positive agreement on the country such as the one that the Minister for Finance brings today to our participation in the International Monetary Fund, but on the other hand, as creditors to the International Monetary Fund, and not as borrowers, who have no arguments about malpractice and criticism, is coming back to create a grey environment in logic, and how and without a document, without any arguments. This government, ladies and gentlemen, has a central direction, has a compass from national alliances at all levels, trying to strengthen, shield the country, create an extroversion from the introversion that existed at every level, but also at the level of alliances and participations in all international and world fora. And today, knowing both the history of our country and the difficult fiscal period that we spent the previous period, we are coming here with this ratification just to reverse the picture. What do we say about this sentence? What does Christos Stavros say as the Minister of Finance? At a time when we have repaid 75% of the loans to the International Monetary Fund, when the International Monetary Fund is not questioned by anyone - as much as we do in this Chamber - that it is a globally powerful organisation and that country is now coming with the approval of the European institutions to participate with about EUR 2 billion with a loan that we will receive from the Bank of Greece, which we will provide, although the conditions are created, with two positive things. Mr Tryphoon Alexiadis, this is not something, as you say - and you read the report of the Accounting Office - which will be added to the deficit, because it is cash and it is not budgetary. So the first positive is that we will have some revenue from the objectives, in the ratio resulting from the "training" rights, as described in the law. One is that, revenue for the budget. The second important thing, however, is that our country will join the group of forty countries, as has Austria and Italy, and that of Ireland, which will also have a say within the International Monetary Fund. And as our rapporteur, Mr Fotellas, has rightly said, but if we do not participate in the International Monetary Fund ourselves, how do we influence this powerful organisation? Outside, criticizing, meditating? Of course, participation through the International Monetary Fund makes us stronger. Also, see what the forty, the most powerful countries are. Why should our country not be, when the image improves only from our presence in there and creates a protection, a guarantee for our economy? Ladies and gentlemen, it is one of the self-evident things that we need to do, get into the process of involving the International Monetary Fund, when we have the approval of the European institutions, the European Central Bank and since the Treasury says there is a possibility to do so. It's a benefit to the country, it's a benefit to the national economy. Let us stop resentment, let us stop this introvert and look at things more widely globally and what are the benefits for our country. The criticism that has been heard is actually. And who disagrees that this accuracy is something very negative and that consumes the incomes of households and citizens? We all agree. Is this a Greek phenomenon? No, it's global. Has the government taken measures to protect the citizen and the households? He took what he took in the context of the financial possibilities, and I am sure they will follow more. And I am sure that the minimum wage will be further increased, as has to be done in 2022. It needs to be further increased. We also allow it to be through our country's economics, through the growth we have in development. But let us see with real elements what is happening at European level. With data only made public yesterday by EUROSTAT, Greece, ladies and gentlemen, it is the third lower level of inflation prices across Europe. After Malta and Portugal, Greece has an increase of 1.9%. Price increases, yes, indeed, inflation, but at the moment we are the third softest increase at the Eurozone and European Union level. In particular, 3.4% are at Eurozone level, increasing and 3.6% at European Union level. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So here comparatively we see a reality. Yeah, there's a wave of riots, yeah, there's a problem around the world. Greece, however, as well as the measures taken at the level of appreciation, is one of the lowest negative effects of inflation, at the level of Europe, compared to the euro area. It is not the government that says so, I am not saying it, that EUROSTAT's figures say it in September 2021. Yesterday it was announced. The last thing that has been said as a criticism, Mr President, I have to repeat. Because now, because of our status as parliamentarians, as political figures, we are moving across the country, we also have an upcoming image from business, from households - because we have experienced two years of an economy that has entered into a pandemic environment, an uncharted sea - and we have a visible result. Yesterday the Minister of Finance presented to Parliament the question of the liquidity for which the government and the financial staff alone took the initiative. I will repeat two elements which deserve to be repeated, because they have been unilaterally heard by Mr Stakoura. I will repeat this today because there has been criticism of it. Has the government strengthened liquidity in the real economy during this critical period? That was the main question. He took advantage of three important tools and is now an act for the Greek economy. All undertakings with an independent size, those which really showed their true elements and did not come to the sense of violating tax legislation, have benefited. And for the first time, there was such help in the real elements in the companies that were consistent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u25	Mr. Brutsi, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u26	I'm closing, Mr. President. First, we had the element of the return advance. With the implementation of seven cycles of the programme 8.3 billion euros went to the real economy and six hundred thousand small and medium-sized enterprises were strengthened. Secondly, we had the loan grant programme under the GEOYA I programme, which was extended for three more months, until now has provided EUR 200 million to some seventy-six thousand natural persons and GEOYRA II to ten thousand three hundred enterprises worth EUR 100 million. And thirdly, we had financial instruments from the Greek Development Bank of EUR 7.8 billion in some thirty-four thousand enterprises, of which 98% are small and medium-sized enterprises. In other words, with these three tools, EUR 16.4 billion has been channelled into the real economy over eighteen months, separately from the total package of EUR 42.7 billion to intervene in the pandemic period, to support households, citizens and workers. And because here memory is alive, we say things that are being cancelled in the future by those who anticipate them as a negative development, Mr Alexiadis, but you say nothing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u27	Mr. Brutsi, please hang up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u28	I'm closing, Mr. President. Do you remember here what you said, from this step forward, that once the pandemic is gone, the locks will be shut down, the unemployment will go off? With support through the suspension of employment contracts, this innovative programme, which we made at the Ministry of Labour at the time, supported employment, has been maintained. Comparative figure July 2019, unemployment 17.3%. August 2021, unemployment of 13.9%. Do I say so? Oh, no. Does the government say so? Oh, no. ELSTAT says so. So, in practice, it turns out with evidence that our policy is right, and the decisions we make are for the benefit of our country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u29	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will begin with Mr Alexiades' report, which said that 'if we go home, what will the family understand'. He won't understand anything. He will not understand anything because for once, with the sole responsibility of counter-population, there is complete confusion. Most of you talked about feed, about energy, about vaccines, about wages, about employment relationships, about HERAKLIS, about liquidity, in fact, about private debt. Ahtamas! All together in a bucket and we're talking about everything. Why? Because, obviously, you have ideological and political deadlocks to put you on the subject. Some others didn't talk about it. Mr Katrinis obviously likes to dive into his limited, shrunk audience in the past. He's firmly stuck in the past. I wonder why he insists on something that the Greek society has placed. Society has ranked the New Democracy and its long-term governments, which is why it is our country's longest party. It is the strenuous and time-consuming fact, and in the period 2004-2009, it has responded successfully, protagonists and essentially to historical challenges and missions. It is the party that said the great 'yes' and the great 'no', which supported the country in 2015 - because this was heard - when it was in danger of getting out of the hard core of Europe, proving that it can serve its country and its citizens with responsibility. So, to close it, the New Democracy has recorded most and most important successes, smaller mistakes and fewer omissions than its political opponents. This is why, although time-consuming, it has been dealt with away from lies and populism, from "absolute" and "monots there", citizens with their confidence, cumulatively, have raised it as the first, as the most powerful political force in the country, as the great, stable and timeless pillar of the Greek political system. These, introductory terms, to answer the many reports outside of the bill. To testify to a piece of legislation to be consistent with Parliament's time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u31	On the core of the bill: ladies and gentlemen, the Treasury, since the first time the Government of New Democracy has taken over the governance of the country, has designed and implemented a coherent, rational and - as has been proved - an effective economic strategy based on specific objectives. Some of these aims are to stimulate credibility and strengthen the country's prestige, as well as to strengthen the confidence of partners, institutions, markets and investors in the Greek economy. To achieve this, we have launched and implemented targeted interventions, targeted political initiatives. One of them is the draft law. Firstly, we are going to ratify the decision on the new loan arrangements for the International Monetary Fund. With the new loan arrangements - I will repeat - a credit agreement is concluded between countries with economic potential and the International Monetary Fund with which the country can provide resources to support the global economic system, especially in countries with lower incomes, especially in times of crisis. In other words, what the Left has always said, 'to look at the poorest countries', now comes the country and contributes with other countries in this direction, and the Left says 'no, don't give anything'. To date, thirty-seven States and organisations have joined the decision. The participation of our country was predicted in 2010 when the participation of thirteen new members and the increase in the resources of the participants were determined. Then it was decided, in 2010. That was not the case at that time because of the specific nature of the situation. Today, after 11 years, we are ratifying this agreement by stating our readiness to pay in advance, not in the form of loans and, if necessary, resources that will not exceed the sum provided for in the agreement. The amount of this participation is about EUR 2 billion. It should be noted that the decision on the NEIs, on the new agreements, is only activated when the shares of States are insufficient to prevent or respond to a crisis in the global economic system. For its part - and this dimension I have not heard at all - the International Monetary Fund has the obligation to repay the loan ten years after the payment of the amount by the participants and the payment of such interest is also foreseen. Indeed, the provisions of the draft law provide for how to cover our participation. It is stated that loans from the Bank of Greece to the Greek State are allowed to provide funds to the International Monetary Fund. I heard the committee yesterday and committed myself to answer why this procedure was followed. The scheme chosen is the traditional and historical scheme followed by Greece to finance its contributions to the International Monetary Fund. The country has been participating in the International Monetary Fund for decades. It hasn't happened in the last decade. In the last decade we received a further loan to fund our needs. I give an indicative account of the ministerial decision on our shares and their increases on February 1, 2016, for those voting'residents'. [[At this point the Minister for Finance, Mr Christos Stakoras, presents for the Minutes the above documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] This scheme is followed as a member of the fund is the Greek State. That is why the SDRs which are transferred to our country for each new distribution are also captured as a public asset. In this context, it was considered that in this case also the sums which would be requested from the fund should be the same as those paid by the Greek State. In any event, this procedure does not cause any damage to the Greek State, since the amount borrowed by the Bank of Greece is essentially the amount to be reimbursed by the International Monetary Fund under the terms of the Agreement. That is why the European Central Bank has given a favourable opinion, as I tabled in the Minutes during the committee. Secondly, you ask why our amount of participation has changed in relation to the original decision of 2010. Because after the 2010 decision, changes were followed which led to the amounts of participation of all countries changing accordingly. This does not, of course, mean that if we had joined the decision earlier, we should not today pay the extra amount. You ask me: Can there be a new change in the amount of participation? The International Monetary Fund may, if it considers it necessary, amend the decision. This will change not only the figures for Greece but also for all the other participating countries. An amendment to the contract may, of course, also bring about a reduction in the amount. In any case, in order to make an amendment, it should agree 85% of the participants. You are asking me whether there is a possibility of raising revenues for the Greek State from this decision. As noted in the report of the General Accounting Office of the State, there may also be an increase in revenue. This will happen if the amount that will be repaid with interest from the International Monetary Fund to the Greek State is greater than the amount that we will repay to the Bank of Greece. This is the one energy. This is the draft law we are debating today. Secondly, you're asking me and I'm also in place. We have already paid off two parts of our country's loan from the International Monetary Fund during the Memorandum period. How much? 75%. In this way, the interest-rate and exchange rate risk has been reduced, the refinancing risk has been reduced and the main indicators of the profile and viability of the public debt have improved. I should like to inform you, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, because you have asked me, with specific amounts. What did I tell the committee? The repayment of the IMF loan was initiated by a New Democracy Government and will be completed by a New Democracy Government. First repayment, request 16-9-2019. Completed on 25-11-2019. What did we pay for the IMF? We paid EUR 2.7 billion. What's the benefit? EUR 100 million for Greek taxpayers. Second repayment on 28-12-2020. When was it completed? 18-3-2021. What did we pay for the IMF? We paid 3.3 billion euros. What's the benefit? EUR 85 million for Greek taxpayers. And the third repayment, due in 2022, will be EUR 1.8 billion. The estimated benefit will be EUR 43 million. All in all, that is, the Government of New Democracy, paying early to about EUR 8 billion of the loan from the International Monetary Fund granted within the memorandum periods, will benefit Greek taxpayers EUR 228 million. Thirdly, we are launching for the first time the early repayment of part of Greece's bilateral loans with the countries of the European Union. With these actions we intend to pay back more accurate and unstable loans from the country in relation to the existing costs. Mr. Villardo, you're wrong. I'm sorry about the technical term in a proposal. The GLS today of three months is +0.5 and the Greek government that borrows is +0.13, so there is still benefit and significant benefit. Fourthly, we are involved in paying $11 million to the Disaster Relief and Recovery Fund, which operates within the International Monetary Fund. Are you against this, too? The aim of the fund is to repay debts to the IMF for eligible States - low domestic product members affected by natural disasters or faced with large understatements in public health, epidemics or global pandemics. If we do not address the issue - and the President knows that, I think, better than I do - the pandemic of pandemic in poorer countries, such as many African countries, we will not be able to deal with this in Europe as well. And finally, I should like to close, Mr President, and thank you very much for your tolerance - we have officially indicated the intention, following the encouragement of the leadership of the International Monetary Fund to the members of a strong economic position, to proceed with the lending of part of the SDRs, of those we have made, in other words, after a new redistribution. Where? In a fund that can be called Poverty Reduction and Growth Trust, that is, for the poverty that is supposedly being cut off by the Left, but is hiding when the hours of decisions are coming, or in another fund, the Resilience and Sustainability to cover challenges to climate change. So what we are saying is that the country is going through the borrower's side - EUR 8 billion, this government pays them back with a significant benefit to the Greek taxpayer - on the creditor's side, but the creditor's side to support effectively and actively the International Monetary Fund, in order to play his role properly in relation to interventions on climate change, for poverty, for the energy crisis, for the health crisis. All of this, ladies and gentlemen, shows that we are bringing our country back to regularity at European and global level. We stress the credibility, we strengthen the prestige and strengthen the confidence of partners, institutions, markets and investors to the Greek economy, which is reflected in the low cost of borrowing the Greek economy and in its latest upgrades from the rating houses. In addition, we are participating in decision-making centres with a strong, realistic and rational voice. Greece now shows consistency. Greece now shows credibility. Greece now shows responsibility. But we don't stop here. We continue despite the difficulties we face, due to health and energy conditions, to work to drive the country into a strong, sustainable and development orbit. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u32	Because I have heard the word poverty many times today by everyone and by the Minister, I would like to say, Mr Minister, that everything you can do as Europe, do so before it becomes a government in Germany, because, if it becomes the leader of the Liberal Finance Minister, we will say Soyble and we will be tearing away from the memory. A single debate on the principle, articles and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Finance is hereby concluded: 11428- (97/6) Decision of 27 January 1997 of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund on New Arrangements to Borrow - NAB.' We move on to vote on the principle of the law, the articles and the whole of them, and they will be voted on separately. The vote shall include the principle of the drafting, the first Article, the second Article, the third article, the hotel article and the entire bill. After you register your vote, you have the opportunity to check it out and to revise it by the end of the vote. For any question you may ask the Bureau to help you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u33	I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u34	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u35	So the draft law of the Ministry of Finance: 'Repeal of the Ministry of Finance'. 11428- (97/6) Decision of 27 January 1997 of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund concerning New Arrangements to Borrow - NAB’ was accepted by a majority of the members of the Executive Board of the International Monetary Fund, under Articles and all of the following conditions:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u36	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u37	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-21-S1-commons.u38	With the consent of the House at 12.29 hours the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday 22 October 2021 and 9.00 hours, on the subject of this House's work: parliamentary scrutiny, topical questions debate.
