ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate and vote on the principle, articles, amendments and the entire draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, other provisions of the Ministry of Justice’. Mr. Andreas Loverdes has the floor. Here, Mr. Loverdo, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u2	Mr President, Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, good morning! Withdrawal from the need to obey some internal-party connections, I will make today a placement from the highest step of democracy on this draft law, to give a completely my own element of political identity. Ladies and gentlemen, as a free man, as a member of the National Representation I am invited to present my views, according to what my conscience imposes, without fear and without passion, without committing me anything. I say to you, Minister, that although I disagree with some of what you do not do or some of what you regulate, I am voting 'yes' in principle and on the articles, not all of them, but also on the principle and most of them, and I will be specific. I find it incomprehensible for our rapporteur, Mrs Giannakopoulou, to have told Parliament on several occasions because you are late to tighten up the Criminal Code, our late President, Mrs Gennamas, to criticise you on the same subject, to have the tightening of the sentences, and to have the talks of our senior MPs on serious issues, but who do not go through the substance of the draft law, to "we are in favour of tightening the sentences" and to have the rest of the speech on other issues. The Step of the House is sacred and special. It is not a step forward for an indictment of theories of forensic and criminal policy, but it is the step of this particular and I will be placed in this. I agree with the criticism of the use made of alternative forms of punishment. I agree with the criticism that agricultural prisons are empty and it is wrong, it is a criminal policy error. I also disagree with your make news provision and I agree with the ESA, but is it possible to have a series of problems that are constantly affecting a large number of issues, particularly those that make every serious person more aware, every single citizen, such as sex crimes against minors, and not to underline the best regulation that comes to Parliament today with all our powers? I'm doing it with all my powers! Is it possible for there to be a Member here and there to be a provision in the draft law that turns the rape of a minor into a felony into a felony and says otherwise? And when the TVs reveal crimes spill crocodile tears? They're liars, they're not dominating themselves when they're supposedly excited. Now is the time of the truth, what you vote. With regard to the protection of the citizen, who asks us - and the three hundred people - to say 'no' and to seek false excuses in false anti-crime policies? I won't! I won't! There is, Minister, a problem before I go into the recording of specific arrangements with which I am identified. There is one problem that we call in a new term 'female murder'. I think it is wrong that you have not brought rules in this regard, and I am probably approaching you to your amendment. Of course, you have this amendment to the feminine murder that is probably right, but you also have the responsibility of the Criminal Code that you changed in 2019 and the way you changed it, but I am not going back. I am told that with the two lockdowns the consumption of alcohol has increased in homes and cocaine and, as Mrs Giannakopoulou said very well, the feminine crimes are not crimes that are being committed in the heat, they are preparing and, as psychiatrists and psychologists are informing me, they are resorting to their offices or doctors and some people are confessing to being on the road. The provision on these issues and on the protection of women is necessary and, as Nadia Giannakopoulou well said, there is no wrong in your draft law. You need to look carefully at the amendment of the SYRIZA and possibly accept it, by making the contributions you and your advisers consider necessary. But let's go see what I agree with: I agree with the strictness of the serious crimes - homicide, fatal robbery, fatal rape, group rape, minor rape - which will now be punished by life imprisonment and which will abolish the divorce, the divorce sentence of temporary imprisonment. And of course I agree with the arrangements for the change of the term of dismissal. Obviously, I agree. I agree with the suspension of the limitation for sexual acts against minors, Article 113. I agree with the tightening up of the masturbation, Article 349, with the incest that makes it a felony of parents or grandparents, I said it in my general position. I agree with the tightening of the abuse of a minor, that is, where the adult acts against sexual freedom. The change in Article 342 is necessary. I agree with the strictening of penalties for trafficking in human beings, for pornography of minors, for sexual acts against a minor on a fee, for abuse of the sexual freedom of a minor by trainers, by teachers, by priests. I agree - of course - with the self-ordered prosecution of minors, for the self-prosecution of sexual dignity in workplaces. Who disagrees? And who chooses, instead of talking about them, to make us here in the House theories of anti-crime politics? Minister, please do not delay the introduction of the genocide regulation today. It's a matter of time. No journalistic tension, coming and leaving. He's freezing. And consult psychiatrists and psychologists to see what is happening in our country and what problems it has caused the closure of homes, which was saving from the pandemic, but which created other issues. I have also been briefed by neighborhood policemen who are invited to the houses that at the time that she spent a lot of wood. So things are serious and the sensitive antennas of each and every one of them in this Chamber must be caught. And the first thing you're obliged to do is regulate it, and on this issue of feminine homicides is you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u3	And we thank Mr. Loverdo. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Konstantinos Kollias, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the draft legislation under discussion and the resolution, as the relevant committees have drafted, is a key piece of legislation. We have seen that there has been a very productive and substantial debate in which scientific bodies have also expressed their positions and points. However, I think that, despite any disagreements in some parts of the bill, a very interesting and fertile confrontation has been made and that the key reforms that are taking place in the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are possible, but also a cross-party consensus is necessary. I have listened very carefully to Mr Loverd's speech and I do not hide my satisfaction. Of course, I fully agree with his emphasis on the issue of feminism. Interventions with the proposed provisions are very careful and targeted. These are interventions in the multi-faceted area of criminal justice that are in line with the needs of the Greek state and society. That is why I would like to congratulate the Monitoring Committee and the Ministry of Justice for their decisive contribution to these changes, which allow me to say that they are now required. I believe that these changes promote a modern criminal law, which, on the one hand, empowers to a much greater extent the protection of the contested legal goods, thereby strengthening the citizens' demands for security, without ignoring the rights of the defendant, which are, of course, the crown of criminal science and Western legal culture. The bill that we have before us comes to restore the security climate that our society and their citizens have as much as they ever need. First of all, this objective is served in the explanatory statement by tightening sentences on serious crimes of a malicious nature, such as homicide, rape, fatal robbery, but also by tightening the dismissal of sentences on a conditional basis. And it could not be done otherwise when we are faced with almost every day with extremely dissuasive phenomena, with bad public opinion-stricken crimes, whether they are of the character of racial violence, whether they are insulting the legitimate good of sexual freedom, whether they are at the expense of minors, or they are also commonly dangerous crimes, such as arsonism. We agree that strict penalties are not panacea, nor is it sufficient to prevent such crimes. Of course, however, it is a first and crucial step in order to cure the de facto erroneous deterioration of a major political deceit that has been attempted by the applicable codes. With today's bill, self-evident. The state intervenes drastically so that perpetrators of brutal crimes do not come against 'hadi' penalties. The framework of penalties shall be adapted in a coherent and legally sound manner, strengthening both the proportionality and the deterrent nature of the penalties provided for. It is the state's responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, to redefined its position. It's her debt to society, and that's what she does today. Why is it today, ladies and gentlemen? The current Criminal Code is doing exactly the opposite of what international practice demands, but also anti-crime policy. On the one hand, it punishes and sends to prison mild crime, and on the other hand, it can be characterized as highly lenient to a degree of misunderstanding with serious crime. Such malfunctions and internal weaknesses are coming to cure the bill. Therefore, the framework of penalties to severely disturbing crimes such as the insult of sexual dignity, child pornography, sexual activity with minors for remuneration, but also the abuse of minors, i.e. the exploitation of minors by teachers, trainers, clergymen, etc. Furthermore, life will be a unique sentence for the offences of recent treason, homicide, group rape, fatal rape and fatal robbery. Standard conditions for the granting of dismissal shall be laid down. So, what's going on? The time is increasing for the actual elaboration of the sentence within the penitentiary. Because the truth is that the shed criminals are not afraid of what penalties will be heard in court, but they are afraid of how long they will stay in prison. In the event of life imprisonment, the actual minimum age for convicts is now increasing from sixteen to eighteen. These proposed regulations therefore seek to create a security climate for citizens, but also to restore the conviction that no crime remains unpunished. We all have to agree that these criminals should really remain a sufficient time in prisons and for their penitentiary, but also for preventing other potential criminals from committing similar or other heinous crimes. We rendered the seduction of a minor and the crime of child rape as a felony. We are talking about very heinous crimes that society is watching at alarming frequency. Therefore, in the event of a rape against a minor exclusively anticipated sentence now it is life imprisonment. Increased legislative controls are therefore in place to feel security and, above all, to protect vulnerable social groups, such as minors. In the same context, I should like to emphasise another important regulation that is being promoted. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. To date, the limitation period for crimes against sexual freedom directed against minors has been strictly suspended until the adulthood of the minor victim and only for the felony. However, it is very common that, unfortunately, we are seeing victims of sexual abuse crimes taking even whole years to denounce this shameful act. This weakness is even more pronounced in the case of minor victims where the realization of the act is slow and can take place many years later. The minor victims most often experience a huge internal struggle, a psycho-corruption staff Golgotha, until they reach the point of making known or announcing the misconduct they have received. That is why it is very good that the regulation on these offences, where the possibility is now to have sufficient time in which the minor can denounce and the state to expel them is not to be unpunished such increased decency. The limitation will now start from the adulthood of the minor by extending an additional year, if the act is a flood and an additional three years, if the act is a felony. It is something we have all expected, ladies and gentlemen. Recapitulating, I would like to express my confidence that this draft law restores failures and distortions of the current Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure that were voted on by the previous government. At the same time, from an overview of the proposed provisions I am absolutely optimistic that the protection of vulnerable social groups, such as minors and citizens of third countries, is finally strengthened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u5	Please finish, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u6	I shall conclude, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, for all these reasons I would ask you to vote in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. The speaker of the New Democracy Parliament has the floor now, Mr Yiannis Loverdos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Have a good day, ladies and gentlemen. I have to agree with what my good friend and conscientious Andreas Loverdos said earlier that this step forward is a sacred step. Those who don't know the history of this place, I think they underestimate it sometimes. When I come up and speak from this step that has spoken of all the top political facets of the country, from the time of Eleftherios Venizelos until today, when they have passed from George and Andreas Papandreou, Konstantinos Karamanlis, Konstantinos Mitsotakis, Ilias Elios, Yiannis Pasalidis and so many others, I cannot help but feel awesome. That's what I'm afraid some people need to read more to feel it, feel it, so that we can be even more responsible when we go up to this Step. Because today is an important day, a very important day, for the parliamentary work. The bill we are debating and to be voted on - I hope that by involving more than the Members of the New Democracy, I hope that it will happen, although I do not see it - it is an important bill. Why? Because it adjusts the data to today's reality. You know, society is evolving. Things don't go as they used to. Now we are constantly evolving and that has a lot to do, that we are seeing truths and we are no longer hiding them under the carpet. You know, for decades - to be realistic in this country, as in other societies, it was not only in Greece - crimes against minors, abuse against children, against women, have been hiding under the carpet for decades. We must not be proud of this fact as a society. It's time to change that. We came to see the truth in the face, to say stop the abuse of women, stop the abuse of children, see these terrible crimes taking place at their expense and impose such penalties. I am not a legal person, but I understand that the objective of a legal system, a criminal system, is not only a deterrent, but also a deterrent to crime. And the introduction of penalties makes this to a certain extent dissuasive. The purpose of the system is, of course, a penitentiary. There, indeed, we are far behind, but not just as Greece, worldwide we are left behind. As far as I am concerned, there has been no progress in penalisation and it has not been done to the extent that we would like. This, however, is another debate that does not concern this bill. Maybe sometime we should get out of here. What we are talking about today is the following. There are very serious crimes that we have underestimated - badly, poorly - and now they are being put on the surface even more intensely and fortunately come to the surface and reveal themselves more intensely. For these crimes, we can't stay with our mouths shut. We can't keep quiet about this. That is why the Ministry of Justice is right to bring this bill that clarifies penalties for crimes such as the rape of a minor or the last betrayal or crimes that bring about life imprisonment. I never understood SYRIZA's reaction to life imprisonment in such serious crimes. I didn't understand that. You know, I have the impression that some colleagues - well-meaningly, I do not have a problem with any party, different political perceptions may have, but we are all here to serve the country and society - you have been sort of held up in other times that have been pasted. If you had to criticise the Criminal Code, for two things you had to criticise. You should have criticised the mistakes you made when you brought bread, just before the 2019 elections, this Criminal Code, in which you made a lot of mistakes. You did a few good things, I can't say it was all for flying, but you made a lot of mistakes. And if you had to criticise the government, it would have been ours - what I said when the first revision of the Criminal Code had been discussed - that penalties had to be tightened up since then. That would be the only criticism you can make in this bill, which, in my opinion, is a good bill and we should all support it. There is, of course, an amendment which I understand creates reactions and concerns the possession of molotov bombs. I think that very rightly - it should have happened earlier - that the possession of the molotov bomb is turned into a felony, so that there is not only moral decency in these behaviours, but also criminal responsibility that leads to the creation of a prison sentence. I can't understand your reactions. The molotov bomb is a means of destruction, violence, which is used against not only policemen, but also ordinary citizens from organised gangs, many times adults and minors, who do so even for their fun. This cannot allow a state to continue to exist. The molotov bomb is a crime and this crime must be punished. I hope - and for the sake of your own, for the image you have given the public and society - that you do not ask for a roll-call vote on this amendment. I hope so for your own sake, because we, as far as the New Democracy is concerned, can assure you that all the Members of the New Democracy as a fist not only will vote for it, we will vote in favour of the entire bill. Because, I repeat, in general, it is one of the best bills brought by the Government of New Democracy and by Mr Mitsotakis since he took over the power. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u9	We too thank Mr Loverdos and the consistency of time. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Yiannis Kefaloyannis, has the floor. Then, according to the list as I received it, Mr. Aylonitis, Mr. Stamenitis, Mr. Katsotis and Mrs. Jackri, who has been left since yesterday, will speak. The other Members will speak as they have been on the list since yesterday. Mr. Kefaliannis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, those of us who are ministering to legal science are well aware that both the systems and the rules for the administration of justice are not created in vitro, that is to say, in a laboratory sterilised by society, for which they are intended. We know that the rules of law that take hold of time are those for which, among other things, the legislator takes into account the attitude of the citizens on a particular issue. Of course, at the same time we know that a good legislator should not just be dragged by public opinion, but he must try to convince her of the correctness of his choices and, in fact, to discipline it. And, of course, we know that in this way some informal conversation with society must set itself two insurmountable limits. The first limit, of course, is the Constitution and the second is International Law and, more specifically, the European Convention on Human Rights. The legislative initiative we are debating today has set a very difficult objective: it is trying to discuss and consider all these sources. The Qualified Opposition bears responsibility for the government because, in itself, it legislates on the basis of the topicality and the wishes of the public, with, in particular, that of tightening the penalties. One could, in fact, take these comments into account if the SYRIZA rule of law had not been invoked. Just remember what SYRIZA colleagues and then Prime Minister said about the well-known story of pawns in 2018. They said then, public opinion cannot believe that there is no crime. Remember, for example, that there was a former Minister of Justice, who outside the Maximos Mansion foretold this as the biggest scandal since the establishment of the Greek state. And I am sorry to say this, especially with regard to the violation of the presumption of innocence or the limits of temporary detention, which many face as the advance payment of the criminal conviction, there are political parties and persons who have raised the care of the public in science. But let's get to the bottom of the issue. I believe that at some point, ladies and gentlemen, we must agree to classifying the degree of moral decency we show in the various offences. Is it or not homicide the offence in which we must both as a society, but also as persons, render the maximum moral deceptiveness? Unless it seems morally right to anticipate Greece, for example, penalties for financial crimes far more severe than the most heinous crimes, which are against life or even against sexual freedom and dignity. When we say that homicide will bring life imprisonment, at that time we are showing as a state our maximum moral deceptiveness to such an act. And, of course, there is no other way to do it than through it. In particular, it is invoked by colleagues from the Confederal Group of the European United Left - and, indeed, by colleagues from the Legal Affairs Committee - that the principle of proportionality should be circumvented. I sincerely respect their sensitivity. But they ignore - and indeed willingly - that the provision of equal treatment as a single penalty does not deprive the court of the possibility of imposing a reduced penalty and that is because the lightening circumstances of Article 84 of the Criminal Code continue to apply. There is, therefore, - and rightly so - an essential area for the flexibility of the court and for the application of the principle of proportionality. Two words on the subject of the amendment of Article 191 on the disseminating of false news. A lot has been said in this Chamber - and, of course, at committee meetings - about government arbitrariness, criminalisation of the opposing opinion, limiting freedom of expression and institutional strangulation of the movement of views, even for circumvention of the Constitution. But all this is happening, ladies and gentlemen, why did public health really have been added to the wording of the provision? I'm really trying to figure out exactly who you're defending. Freedom of speech is constitutionally guaranteed in our country - I think there is no question of this - and, of course, it requires compliance with the laws of the state. Should anyone not, however, weigh the right to freedom of expression when other rights are at stake, such as health, which is at the very narrow core of human rights, for example? Does the scientific knowledge of the medical community, which obeys strict control rules and guides the decisions of the State to protect the health of citizens, not have greater importance for you in relation to the views of each conspiracy conspiracy? It is therefore good, ladies and gentlemen, when you call for liberal principles not to be fragmented, because it is well known that from the time of John Stuart Mill and John Rawls that freedom of expression may be restricted as long as its restriction maximises total freedom. And overall freedom with thousands of dead and hundreds of permeated people I think we cannot have, how much more so when, unfortunately, many of these fellow citizens were motivated by hordes of online charlatans, who have literally abused the top, indeed, right to freedom of speech, leading many to intensive or even death. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u11	And we thank Mr. Kefaliannis. The SYRIZA Member now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Aylonite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will try not to repeat what Mr Lappa and Mr Theophilos Xanthopoulou have said. I must say that my colleagues have been excellent and I congratulate them publicly. And it's double our fellowmanship as lawyers, lawyers from the fighting lawyers. I will say from the outset that much has been said about pandemic, once listen to the opposition in relation to the proposal that we make that pandemic wants cooperation, that it wants science, that it wants joint acceptance of the actions. Only in this way will we deal with this situation that is out there rather than with communication conditions and criteria. Ladies and gentlemen, I have followed almost all the speeches. I don't hide it from my house. I have been watching the development of the Criminal Law, like most of you, for too many years, as we have been watching central political life. I think, however, that I can say this with the right that my involvement has given me for many years with the criminal law: in my opinion, it is more unacceptable, in my opinion, to legislate, more raw intervention, more unscientific arguments in the whole of the introduction of criminal law. And I'll explain. The worrying thing is not that each of us here promotes his party's arguments. The worrying thing is that our society comes back into primitive situations. And, unfortunately, I see this in many speeches of the New Democracy colleagues. I see - and I ask you to understand the expressions I am using - a legal and political ancestorism. It does not seem clear that the progeny of the arguments, because they are covered in scientific terms, are distributed in political terms and nobody understands it. I have already heard Mr Loverdo say: does SYRIZA disagree with life imprisonment in the offense of last betrayal? But are these things? Are these things? You're judging from nothing? One cannot understand your arguments easily - the one following the debate - because they are sprung with a lot of emotional dust: Sweet Water, Vitrioli, rape, inhuman crimes, etc. All of this triggers the people's sensitive reflexes. And that's justifiable. And on the other hand, SYRIZA is the bad guy. This is the last of your arguments. That is what I say 'legislative progenitor'. As far as the word 'acceptable crime' is concerned, I have told you, Minister, on several occasions, that we do not separate criminal offences from the Criminal Code in this way. They are not distinguished in much or less heinous, inhuman, agitated, and so forth. These are characterizations we'll tell them out of here. This is where we speak politically and I would say a scientific reason. This distinction is made elsewhere and not within the House. But all of you probably and all of us do so deliberately or ignorantly to go along with the so - called sense of law. The public about the legal feeling in this case, especially for your party, is making it a real feeling for your party. We are not voting here according to the public on the legal sense of ladies and gentlemen. If we were to vote this way, if the House were to vote for all these years, we would come back from a criminal law point of view to public executions and guillotins of other times. It's an expression, let's call it theoretical. It's not an expression when we vote Criminal Code and Criminal Procedure. We're coming back, I'd say in vengeful barbarism. The people are watching you, Minister. Many times at television stations, especially when a heinous offence has been committed, go and say the same thing - I have told you here several times - and you say things about life imprisonment and everything else. We don't legislate in the House. We're talking about a Criminal Code and a Code of Criminal Procedure. Of course you can legislate. Of course, this bill also has positive provisions - a product - such as the part concerning sexual crime against children. Of course! But we as parliamentarians and scientists are seeing the whole thing. The Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure are codes relating to our social life. It's a product of deep science for decades. It is the life of society before us and after you and us will be these codes and will continue to regulate our social life. Minister, there's legal science, there's judicial authority. Do you know what boulders - my colleague, Spyros Lappas - legal thought have shaped our criminal system? That is why we are voting for the codes as a whole. The Legislative Committee gives it to the government and the government has the discretion to bring it or not to Parliament. And here in this House we cannot change the conclusion of the committee of inquiry. So much importance is given to the science of the conclusion on the codes of our Constitution and the Rules of Parliament. The 2019 Penal Code, which was so obsolete, was the culmination of a deep study. And you go after him all the time. I have told you once again, Minister - you have said this three times here on the issue of bribery, three times! - that you're working the Criminal Code. You said that when the Code was passed by SYRIZA in June 2019 it was the conclusion of a scientific committee and the provision concerning bribery had been handed over to the latter committee, as it was voted on from the previous one. Why are you working on it? Why does it save us and well do you put us in such a social confrontation? To win politics! I say a Criminal Code, a Code of Criminal Procedure is not working. It is smuggled by science within the ideological and political framework of this system even you of your own party. There are positive provisions. I'm not saying. But not giving the judge the opportunity when he is a finding of international science, the discretion within his judiciary role, the court has a penalty and you say 'equal life', means that we are in the first place. It's an insult to the judiciary what you're doing. Improve penalties, I'm not saying. But give the legal framework. I challenge you directly, Minister. Tell me a scientist from your own committee who says that there should not be in the enforcement, in the provision of the framework sentence in which the court operates. Tell me. And bring the finding here to see it. I'm closing because I don't have time and I'm eight minutes away. If you want to speak in this Parliament on scientific terms for Criminal Codes and the subject of topicality, you will accept the amendment tabled by my colleagues, the rapporteur and the sectoral director, which concerns feminine murder. Racial violence has taken appalling proportions worldwide. In this sense, therefore, a specific offence is needed, a crime which defines precisely these particular characteristics. I haven't heard you answer. So I close my position and ask you directly. Please tell us in your speech if you accept this amendment so that it can be included in the amendments to the Criminal Code, in your bill the offence of feminine that my colleagues have just mentioned. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr. Alonite, too. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dionysios Stamenitis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u14	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy Government through the Ministry of Justice is making changes and modifications to the penal code aimed at correcting the mistakes of the past and synchronising it with new data with today's reality. There is no doubt that the bill we are debating today in the amendment to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure is of particular importance. This is a legislative initiative for which both the Heads of the Ministry of Justice and the relevant scientific group have systematically and with particular commitment. But where does the draft law aim and why does it come now? I will respond, beginning with the second question, by saying that the time, that is, the time of changes and changes, comes from our point of view in the New Democracy that the Criminal Code is necessary to meet the challenges of times and meet the new needs of society. Therefore, it aims firstly to tighten the framework of penalties for specific crimes, as has been pointed out, of particular criminal decency and, indeed, it does so by keeping the balance that depends on the type of criminal offence and the size and not horizontally. As the rapporteur of the New Democracy also mentioned, my colleague Mr Karagunis, the bill aims to deal with mild infrastability in a very balanced way, in a mild manner and serious crime too, in a very balanced way, not horizontally, not inextricably, but in a strict manner. Secondly, it aims to tighten up the framework for dismissal of conditional sentences and the lifting of the dismissal of criminals who are repeatedly serious felonies. The Minister explained in detail at committee meetings the reasoning behind these changes. Thirdly, the main place is the reintroduction and extension of criminality to commonly dangerous offences. And here we are talking about offences such as explosion, arson and others, also of the kind of offences relating to adoption, but also of the reform of the framework of penalties for the offences of theft and misappropriation. And finally, it aims at the absolute priority of conducting interrogation and introducing to the audience cases of an exceptional nature cases of felony crimes against the sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life. Ladies and gentlemen, we had announced and made it clear that our political will is to make changes to the Criminal Code first and foremost and above all to restore the seriousness, as we would say, of the criminal code that the previous government has passed a little haste, a few days before the national elections in 2019. We are implementing this position in conjunction with issues that have been raised in recent years and which need regulation and a specific framework. So the draft law we are called upon to vote is upgraded to major criminal fraud, traditionally degraded by the previous government by amendments to the Criminal Code which introduced and voted. There is an adjustment of the penalties framework, which seeks to strengthen both the proportionality and the deterrent nature of the penalties envisaged. We must also stress that the changes are achieved by modernising the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure and by harmonising European conventions regulating rights for the protection of minors and adults, victims of criminal activity. To achieve all of this, the draft law is divided into four categories, in which amendments are made concerning - I repeat - major criminal decency crimes, environmental and climate-related crimes, crimes against personal freedom, sexual freedom, economic exploitation, sexual life and the end of crimes against minors. Ladies and gentlemen, another legislative initiative by the New Democracy Government is to be added to all the evidence of the consistency between the words and works of our party. Since the first day, without delays and based on a concrete and comprehensive political planning, we have been moving towards the implementation of the commitments and those we have presented to the Greek people in an election. The aim, of course, is to correct the distortions and weaknesses that existed in every area of public life and operation. So in this case, after a reasonable period of time and while respecting the necessary maturation framework, which requires such legislative initiatives as today, we are correcting the failures of the previous government's legislature and doing so with responsibility and seriousness, through dialogue and obviously scientific advice. Many are standing in the strictness of penalties. And indeed a large part of the interventions that are precisely what this objective is all about. But beyond the criticism, which is welcome and necessary, there is also a need to put in place and answer specific questions. What should be the treatment of homicide crimes and robbery after murder? Don't we all agree on the conversion of the sentence to life? What do we respond to the rape crimes of minors? Our position on critical questions also shows to a large extent the path of legislating. We in the New Democracy take a clear stand and explain it to the Greek people. I think the opposition parties should do the same. It is important that we do not attempt to irritate the waters, but through dialogue either agree or disagree, beyond political purposes. That is why I, too, call on my fellow Members to support this draft law, which I repeat is a serious and responsible effort to remedy the problems that have come as a result of previous legislation. Before I conclude, however, I would like to say a few words about the amendment by the Ministry of Labour, which is to make a significant commitment by the Prime Minister to 'the first signatory', an excellent regulation, which demonstrates the particular importance that the Government of New Democracy attaches to the issue of youth work and the treatment of unemployment in these age groups, and we also have the implementation of the announcements on guaranteed income, the increase in subsidised jobs, and the extension of the scope of the existing regulation to seventy-two instalments of the debts created during the pandemic period. All these regulations essentially support our fellow citizens who are more vulnerable and who have been tested during the pandemic period, and I urge you to support these amendments as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr. Stamenitis. Mr Tsiaras asked for the floor for some intervention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to inform the House about Article 30 of the bill, which amends 133 of the Criminal Code, which is about abolishing the possibility of limiting the young perpetrator, eighteen to twenty-five years old, which is a proposal from the Legislative Committee and has been criticised. I, too, heard Mr Lappa and Mr Xanthopoulou, Mrs Adamopoulou, and I think Mrs Giannakopoulou. We consider his withdrawal to be appropriate. And I say it because we want harmonisation with the Penitentiary Code, which, as you know, is being reformed. We are very close to the proposal which will reform the Penal Code as a whole. And, of course, we want to be able to ensure the proper conditions of detention for young adults, so that they enter a rule and a attention that they need. You see, and I want to assure you that everything that is heard from the standpoint of the Opposition with great responsibility, we are very seriously trying to look at all the proposals. It was right to comment, to withdraw and we'll see with the Penitentiary Code.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u17	Your honor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Christos Katsotis, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. The main objectives of the amendments to the Criminal Code, as pointed out by the Special Rapporteur of the JRC, Maria Konnakas and Parliamentary Representative Yiannis Giokas, are the further intensity of the repression of the working people movement and the targeting of every voice that disputes this policy that serves the needs of capital. Keep and increase penalties in a number of offences directed against people's liberties, free opinion, against working people's mobilisations, at the expense of the enemy people, such as Article 191 and the amendment of Article 272, which opens the way for people to wrap up in a glue and strengthen the provocas against the working people's movement. It is no coincidence that this amendment has brought it to the mosquitos since the end of the debate in the committee. Parliamentarians, the labour movement, which is even fighting against employers' crimes, as recently in the 'COSCO' with the great strike, sees the employer as being unpunished and the moves to protect life being judged illegal. This barbarity is coming to shield you with the reactionary amendments. We are placed on the amendments Nos 1126/91 by the Ministry of National Defence and No 1131/96 by the Ministry of Labour. The first relates to the extension of the time schedule for construction of rapidly-directed artillery missiles of the navy for three months at the shipyard of Elefsina, as well as the completion of the work on submarines such as "Pipinos", "Matrozos", "Kathonis" and "Ocean", the Hellenic Navy at the Scaramaga shipyard. We have been put here several times for the Scaramaga and Elefsina shipyards and the government's policy towards workers, who are in a worse position every year. The illusion is due to this form of organization of the economy, in which ironic law is the gain and not the needs of the workers and the people as a whole. You are deprived of the workers for several years. The choices made by the government to both shipyards have nothing to do with the need for shipbuilding to serve the needs of the people of our country. The continuation in their operation is judged by the strategic designs of the imperialist forces and the monopolistic groups. The JRC's position on shipyards, which we have tabled here, but above all on workers, is what can be the strong basis for production of means of production and shipyards under this form of organization of the economy to form an important basis for development. We shall vote 'at present' in the amendment in order to pay the workers of the shipyards. As far as the second amendment of the Ministry of Labour is concerned, the OAED's employment programmes, regardless of their content, of the particular conditions which they have and regardless of the workforce concerned, are all the programmes for the recycling of unemployment, while at the same time strengthening of the labour market with warm money. On the same reactionary question, the programme for the "first official", which despite the communal storm that accompanied it for an additional 600 euros for each employee in the wage, quickly left this dust of the numbers, because it revealed what this aid is. The problem, of course, for us is not wages and what goes with it. The problem is that such programmes come to cover short-term gaps in enterprises which are subsidized at the same amount to have a basic salary-paying employee. They are programs that their clauses are from nonexistent to the eyes of the world, as our people say. For several years now, the maintenance clauses have not been in existence or are not even requested, and the clauses that have been dealing with in the past as to whether the company has fired or changed its staff have substantially been removed. The new incentive given to the unemployed young people is a six-month-old employment with a monthly increase of EUR 100 or EUR 50 for part-time work, which will be contained in each employee's individual employment contract. The same amount of subsidisation of labour costs is expected to be provided by the employer. In an interview with the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, the Prime Minister focused on this project. He said that the unemployment of young people who do not have a service is due to the fact that they are more expensive and therefore raise the wage costs of businesses, so that is why they are given a premium to businesses. Of course, we all know that new entrants in production in the vast majority are poorly paid and work with flexible labour relations that is still further reducing their earnings. The laws of the whole decade and the New Democracy government separated young people from wages, led to a special minimum wage and underneath, not forgetting the 32% reduction for young people. At the same time, the insurance contributions for young people up to twenty-fifths are lower as from 2019 as a programme to grant the monthly insurance contributions of private sector employees with employers' main pension contributions of 6.66% on the gross earnings of the employees of this age group, i.e. about fifty thousand young people. The new programme, in turn, finances businesses to provide jobs without clauses before and after six months and for wages to be paid to the minimum wage. The late concern for the new generation is, of course, reflected when during the same period young workers become elastic in the tenths of the Hatzidakis Act, when they become the north of the black labor, which reaps against the absence of the control mechanisms, when the management right is the highest authority. The dreams of young workers do not fit either in the OAED lists or in their conversion to fuel for businesses with hunger wages and tips or GBs, who are trying to fool or hide the attack on their rights and life. The doubling of the minimum guaranteed income for December does not solve the great deadlocks of what your policy leads to poverty and impoverishment. The so-called minimum guaranteed income of EUR 150 to EUR 200 is the response of the governments of capital to the widespread poverty and impoverishment of workers and the populace that your policy gives rise to. You perpetuate and recycle poverty for wide popular strata that even lack the basics for their survival. You establish life as normal with the minimum and in terms of impoverishment for the working class and the folk layers. You present as a social policy the minimum guaranteed income and you have reduced benefits, wages, pensions and other rights. It's a conscious attempt to deceive. For cleaners the pandemic is the lighthouse that has further highlighted their irreplaceable role in schools, universities, public transport, workplaces. However, this numerous piece of workers is firmly hostage in one way or another. Others with one-year contracts, elsewhere with oligomenes contracts, elsewhere with programmes, some people who are potentially unemployed in the face of new contractors. Not only to the workers of cleanliness, but to all services, such as the Ministry of Finance, who had just been at a demonstration, must not just prolong their contracts, but work with full and stable work. That's their excuse. This is a request that meets their needs. If they were separately, we would not inhibit even this extra lump sum, the so-called minimum guaranteed income for December, nor the renewal of ECA clearers' contracts. However, we are voting against the amendment as a whole. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u20	And we thank Mr Katsotis. Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u21	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Criminal Procedure is a very serious and complex procedure that requires adequate preparation and thorough study of the needs of society and the functioning of existing provisions. That is why the Legislative Committee was already set up to monitor the implementation of the earlier provisions in order to identify their results, but also to make changes which will serve a more general philosophy of the functioning of the Criminal Law. And this is important because the amendment made by the SYRIZA Government in June 2019, a few days before the break-up of the House for national elections, had caused many questions. We have heard about many reforms that the SYRIZA government has not been able to complete. This amendment, however, was prompted to do so one week before the election call. So why is this hasty change due? What is the reason for the amendment to Article 236(2) for the conversion of active bribery, namely, for the person who is being bribed, by a felony in a flood while the act for the person who is being bribed remained malicious? I do not know whether I should adopt what the former Minister of Justice Stavros Kontonis denounces, who is clearly talking about a provision with a class mark in favour of the economic forces, leaving a number of implied ones. But let us now be told whether this amendment was directed at the few or the many. Ladies and gentlemen, the proposed amendments with this draft law aim to strengthen the sense of security for citizens and to pursue an effective anti-crime policy. They aim at the absolute and effective protection of all citizens and, in particular, vulnerable social groups. I would particularly like to focus on some of the provisions because, given the time available to me, I do not have the opportunity to refer more extensively to many of the important provisions contained in this draft law. But you will allow me, because I represent a prefecture which has been fire-affected several times, most of which come from arson, to begin with the amendment of Article 265 of the Criminal Code on forest arson. With the rapid modification of SYRIZA forest arson was committed in its basic form under a penalty of three to five years and with the possibility of suspension while the arson of forests was considered to be a direct felony and punished by imprisonment of five to ten years without suspension. It appears that this amendment by SYRIZA was due to its pro-environmental policy that considered the crime of forest arson to be minor. This draft law provides in the first paragraph that anyone who causes a fire in a forest shall be punished by imprisonment of up to eight years and a financial penalty. And if the perpetrator intended to pay himself or another illegal property benefit, up to ten years and a financial penalty. In other words, without prejudicial circumstances, as provided for in the following paragraphs, the offence in its most basic form is reinstated and is now punished as a risk crime, with only the possibility of a risk which is causally linked to criminal behaviour and not just the risk arising. Let me say that I consider this amendment to be particularly important in trying to deal with arson effects. And I must remind you that in the fires last August there were forty-six arrests for arson, and it is certain that there were many cases where it was not possible to arrest the perpetrators. I would also like to make a special reference to offences directed against minors and vulnerable social groups for which this draft law clarifies penalties. Our intention is to protect the full legitimate good of life, the sexual freedom of inadvertentity and the protection of victims of sexual abuse. This is the result of a series of amendments which this draft law brings with it and I shall refer to some of them. Paragraph 3 of Article 336 deletes the divorce of life sentences and temporary imprisonment in the case of group rape and rape against a minor. And I think we'll all agree that for these crimes the only proper sentence is the sentence of life imprisonment. In the case of the offence of sexual acts with minors or before them, as provided for in Article 339 of the Criminal Code, the offence in its basic form is now punishable only as a felony. In other words, there is a total abolition of the penalty. The general provision of Article 340 of the Criminal Code, which had been abolished by SYRIZA, states that if one of the acts referred to in Articles 338 relating to misuse of immunity and 339 relating to childbirth, the death of a person is subject to life sentence. There is also a reasonable question here about the feasibility or justification of such a abolition of life imprisonment by SYRIZA. All in all, ladies and gentlemen, the penalties for a number of such offences, I would say not only that they are strict, but that they are streamlined. It is not just because people demand it, it is the deceptiveness of actions itself, it is the logic that requires it. We should add that, in relation to minors, the limitation is suspended until the victim is grown and, in particular, a limitation is provided for one year after the victim has been adulterated for delinquents and three years for felony, while it is foreseen that these cases will be dealt with as a priority. It also provides for the creation of the metoo.gov.gr portal to file complaints in real time, as well as the establishment of a register for all professionals who come in contact with children and adolescents, with strict conditions to register, for example, for coaches or workers in camps or refugee structures. It's another way to protect our children. Finally, I would like to make a reference to the amendment tabled in relation to the use, possession and manufacture of explosives, an offence for which SYRIZA has not only now, but also in the past shows a particular tolerance, since it has turned it into a flood. Moreover, the construction and use of molotovs and explosives on marches or in large quantities are considered to be a felony. Let everyone here take a stand and let us all be judged by the citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law we are trying to restore the confidence of citizens, the effectiveness of criminal justice, we are trying to strengthen the sense of security for citizens, to prevent new offences of particular criminal deception. We are trying to correct unexplained, irrational and accelerating changes of the SYRIZA government, because criminal law has an ideological mark. Some propose the safety of citizens, social peace and justice and some are tolerant and obedient to unacceptable social, moral and criminal conduct. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr. Nicholas. The reason has been - after the Stepma has been settled - the Member of the New Democracy Mr. Efstathos Konstantinides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u23	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Secretary-General, ladies and gentlemen, from the opposition's point of view, the New Democracy has opposed SYRIZA's declining perception of crime and criminality, which has sometimes manifested itself as a justification for violations, with an allegedly ideological sign and sometimes unequivocal attitude to the merits of some acts, to alleviate the sanctions threatened or provocatively relaxing the process of creation even for barbies. On the other hand, the current government had objected to the fact that, when the new codes of substantive and administrative criminal law were ratified, not because it did not recognise the need to revise and modernise the old ones, which had completed their cycle, but because it had substantial objections to various provisions and, above all, because it was politically and legally inappropriate that an outgoing government, literally at the door of exit from power, was politically and legally inappropriate, to commit the state to its own choices for the award of criminal justice. And while for many other legislation this would not matter, since every new government can simply abolish the legislation it inherited, in the area of Criminal Law this is not the case, since even the short-lived law is applicable, it generates rights for the defendant because of the application of the softer provision. Perhaps this is also the explanation of the importance of SYRIZA, in other words, that the new arrangements will apply for a short time to produce results. And that is not what I am saying, I do not say a New Democracy official, but a Minister of SYRIZA, and indeed a Minister of Justice, Mr. Kontonis, who spoke of a deliberate transfer by one week of the 2019 national elections, in order to make it possible for the new codes to be passed and to make the application of specific provisions by Greek justice binding. I present relevant reports to which Mr Kontonis has already referred, in a position and reproach, on the government decision to vote on the penal codes on election eve, by a government, which, he pointed out, dealt with the clearance. And in his next post, just a few days ago, Mr. Kontonis talks about the method of voting for the new Criminal Code by the SYRIZA-ANEL coup d'état, four days before the House was dissolved and he refers to the "unreasonable leaderships that eventually become ruthless". [[At this point the Member, Mr Efstathos Konstantinides, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Since then, the current government, ladies and gentlemen, has been committed to the forthcoming changes, and since the beginning of its term of office, the current Minister for Justice has announced the establishment of a legislative committee for the processing of codes. Therefore, no study and no surprise existed. Furthermore, it has become clear from the parliamentary debate that many of the proposed regulations will be accepted more widely, in fact, it will also have to give rise to a number of Qualified Oppositions, which confirms the necessity and correctness of the legislation. A piece of legislation that, beyond the expected academic controversy, responds to social reality, to the notorious sense of law. He said earlier, Mr SYRIZA's colleague, 'but will we legislate with the public on a legal sense?'. But we are voting for it with the public on the legal sense, ladies and gentlemen of the Staff Regulations. Unfortunately, in this critical area, the opinion of the citizens is not positive, there is a conviction of impunity. I am invoking the facts of a well-known investigation, where a vast percentage of 80-82% is not satisfied with the strictness of the penalties imposed. It is a recent ‘MRB’ survey, about summer 31st of May 2021. While, ladies and gentlemen, such measurements may be influenced by the news, one will find it difficult to say that this does not reflect the Greeks' firm view. Equally difficult, and yet unfounded, one will argue that this size can or must be ignored by the Greek legislator and this, not for the sake of satisfying some electoral clientele, as SYRIZA is arbitrarily imputing us, since 65.6% of left-wings and 74.6% of centre-lefts in the same investigation are recorded that they also answered that they are not satisfied with the rigour of the sentences. Understand, SYRIZA's ladies and gentlemen, the one who loses a relative in a homicide crime, the one who loses his life in a robbery, the one who falls victim to sexual abuse is not left, central or right. He's a daily man who wants to live his life in conditions of security and peace. Therefore, while the public about the legal feeling should not affect the administration of justice in specific cases, the legislative framework cannot be in a full extent by the social perception of crime and its punishment. No one is claiming, of course, that stricter penalties on its own will immediately eliminate serious or average crime. The criminal normally believes that he won't be arrested. I remember, however, cases of perpetrators of homicide in America where the perpetrator, the perpetrator, carried his victim to another state where the death penalty did not apply to carry out his act there and thus escape the strictest conviction. It can therefore take into account, in particular, the premeditated perpetrator, the existing framework at the time of the completion of his act. Moreover, they know, especially prison lawyers, how informed some are incarcerated about the criminals in force. So we certainly need a comprehensive upgrade of the state's anti-criminal function to substantially improve the sense of citizens' security. But it is also a good thing that aspiring offenders, especially a sphere of rights in need of increased protection, should know that the penalty in question will be heavy. So he will be afraid of the householder who will happen to wake up at the end of a theft or a robbery, but also to fear the perpetrator from the only weapon available to him, and that is the law and nothing else. The proposed regulations therefore strengthen the protection of vulnerable social groups, minors, workers, citizens of third countries, victims of sexual abuse and trafficking. The conditions of the current dismissal of sentences, in particular for serious offences, are being confirmed, and criminal offences against commonly dangerous crimes, particularly forest arson, are being dealt with as an absolute priority for cases of exceptional nature or for crimes against sexual freedom, and the issue ofake news, systematic false news dispersed in the field of health, which produce very serious harm to society, are being reinstated and procedural rights for the parties are finally dealt with. We are therefore unfair to the draft law being discussed when we restrict the debate to the stricterisation of our criminal justice system, since the provisions regulate failures and loopholes in the prosecution of criminal conduct, rationalise the sanctioning framework for major incompetence and the framework for the creation of the penalty, deal with specific limitations and improve the criminal arsenal to deal with crime and to establish a sense of justice in society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u24	And we thank Mr. Constantinidis. Mr George Mulkiotis has the floor now, then Mr Barkas, Mr Bartzokas, Mr Mandas and Mrs Alexopoulou. I see you all here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u25	And you've been there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u26	And you've been there, yes. I'm not in the field of theoretical science. I'm making a mistake. But I think the'substances' are more general. Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u27	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I was one of the lucky ones that at the Law School I had Professors George Alexandros Magakis, Nikolaos Androullakis and Giannis Manoledakis. I was one of the lucky people because I had heard what the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure mean, and especially what the duration of these codes means. I said that with emphasis. When you heard Georgios Alexandros Magakis speak to you about criminal codes - in the characteristic way he was speaking - and he was referring to the duration of power and what it means in relation to citizens' confidence in these codes and even judicial officers, I am now surprised and I do not want to say despair. The Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be changed every year under the pressure of a temporary topicality and as an instrument of communication policy by the respective government. By Law 4619 and Law 4620 of 2019, the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which came into force from 1-7-2019, was passed. The law-enforcementers were asked to apply these new codes, of course, always compared with Article 2 of the new Criminal Code with the new Criminal Code, in order to apply those which are more favourable in any case to the defendant from the end of the act until their irrevocable judgment. However, some provisions of the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure were also amended by Law 4623/2019, which entered into force on August 9, 2019, after one month and nine days. You understand theorists of law and criminal science what they were saying and how the legislative authority exercised its rights in this particular case. This draft law once again gives rise to major changes to the new Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure that will enter into force as from the date of their adoption. They should apply directly to issues raised in the courts from the outset, that is to say, to compare the provisions of local codes of the 2019 Code, the previous Criminal Code, the amendments of which have been made and the Criminal Code, as it will be voted on with the amendments and amendments it introduces today and which are currently recommended by the Ministry of Justice. It is certain, ladies and gentlemen, and those who are directly involved in judicial practice that they will raise a large number of questions concerning the application of the more favourable provision in any case than the comparison of these codes and the amendments that have been made so far and of course this draft law. We believe that legislative power cannot see and cannot - since it does not see - overlook that it must provide for and take into account the insecurity caused in law. Multiple uncertainties. The five-member court of felony the other day tried and raised these matters. These create situations that are not serious about a legal system. I shall deal specifically with a number of specific issues. I shall refer to Rule 191. It was very important that the comments of the Scientific Service of the Parliament and I read what he said: "In this case, the question is whether the scope of the ban is in any case covered by the above conditions, where the foundation of deportation is limited to potential risks of legal goods or internal events of the psychic world - that is, concerns or fear - without them being linked to objectively diagnosed effects on legal goods, the avoidance of which creates pressing social need. A pressing social need is the expression that the European Court of Human Rights accepts in this particular case. In any case, there must be sufficient freedom to participate in the public debate to which facts are put for consideration without knowledge of the person who invokes these facts might be inaccurate. In the promoted wording of Article 191, with regard to the dispersion of false news, strong evidence is now being introduced that is translated into criminal conduct, but is not justified or even stated how the legal goods added to the terms of the relevant crime are liable to be damaged and, in particular, there is a criminality of public opinion or via the Internet, which can be characterised as false news or rumours, but which are capable of disturbing public faith or threatening public confidence in the national economy, public health or defence capacity of the country, areas which are primarily the subject of public dialogue. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, making these views appropriate as false news of yours could be the country's strong and unsatisfactory political warfare of the legislative news of negative criticism in the national economy, public health or defence capacity. Is it possible to quote a scientific position as having the character of a reputation regarding the effectiveness of vaccination in this respect, could it be a dispersal of false news and to conclude that a preliminary examination is to be ordered for the investigation of an act consistent with the dispersion of the one which invoked that position? The same could be supported for criticism of the country's national economy or defence capacity. That is why this provision, Minister, cannot be accepted as it is because of an obvious fair political deficit that it characterizes. In relation to the provisions of a bill concerning the sole sentence of life imprisonment, the choice of divorce, as has rightly been said, expresses the elasticity that must characterise the legislative delimitation of the sentence at stake. The provision in a bill of inappropriate sentences such as the sentence of life imprisonment states the mistrust of the law against the judiciary. In other words, it suggests that the penalty is not adjusted to the data in each case. The choice of the bill to reinstate certain felonies - the penalty for life imprisonment - as alone threatened sentence has nothing to offer general prevention. And, of course, the distrust of the judge is evident. I would like to say two words on public work, Mr President. Unfortunately, the very innovative reforms of the legislator were not implemented in practice because they were suspended with Law 4623/2019, Article 98. There is no doubt that this arrangement was decided on account of the failure of the administration to implement the measure of social benefits. However, this does not mean that it is not a step backwards in the criminal system. Anti-criminal policy cannot be exercised by regulation - come on because it will respond accordingly to the understanding of the community. Go on, come on, it'll be the legislator, go on, come on, society. The last, of course, society, undisciplined. However, thirty years, ladies and gentlemen, following the implementation of the social benefits foundation since 1991, this is the first time that, unfortunately, this institution has been suspended without any prospect. I conclude, Mr President. I should like to say to all of us that we are not honoured by the report by the World Economic Forum of 2018 which ranks our country in its seventeenth first position on the question of independence of justice after Rwanda, which is in the 20th place of Namibia, Ghana in the forty-third place, Kenya in the fifty-fifth place, Botswana in the fifty-seventh place, Tanzania in the sixty-eighth place, Tunisia in the seventeenth place. This subject I am referring to was raised at the conference of the Institute for European Law on 3-2-2019. As Professor Mylonopoulos says, it is the lyric for understanding some of the parameters that give rise to the functioning of criminal justice in our times. That cannot remain unnoticed. Minister, it will be useful to overcome anti-crime policy when the concept of security is of essential content and the administration of justice will hopefully enter the twenty-first century. But only if there is a proper record of problems, a real evaluation and hierarchy of serious proposals for solutions and an adjustment based on results. Only then will everyone have to win. The executive will win because it will have ensured a high level of rule of law for citizens. But the judiciary officials will also stop becoming the gutters of social indignation. But, above all, the citizens will gain, ladies and gentlemen, because they will be able to live and develop in a genuine democracy. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. The speaker of the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, Mr Constantine Barkas, has the floor. Mr. Barca, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u29	Mr President, in the first year of the law students learn that the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, the laws in our country, are not avenged. They are not trying to avenge the man who has fallen into any error. The penitentiary system is indeed trying to save people who have committed any crime. Today's debate on the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure is held in the light of the ideological, theoretical and micropolitical debate put forward by the New Democracy. These amendments, as reflected in the Ministry of Justice's draft law, will bring further problems and deadlocks to criminal justice. As many time-consuming lawyers, people of the law deal with the changes to be made to the codes of criminal law, they say they should have a timelessness. There can be no law subject to the micropolitical debate that each authority brings to Parliament. They cannot have party ideological personal positions in relation to penitentiary in our country. It is not a prison party that you have brought to the Greek Parliament at the moment. Minister, unfortunately from the changes that you are bringing and from the debate that your officials are taking from the step of the House, it seems that the Enlightenment has not passed through the country. And unfortunately, the Enlightenment has not touched your own party. You're talking here about changes in the Criminal Code which, if you like, will help to dissipate false news when you themselves are dispersing news from this Step. You say this modernisation will help to highlight the truth in Greek society. The problem is that you really hide the truth about the history of amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code in our country. The oldest code has been in force since 1950. Some changes had been made but the essence of the oldest Criminal Code had been in place since 1950. And the changes that took place and were voted on in 2019 did not take place within a daily process, no monthly procedure, not even an annual procedure. They took place after an attempt at years of law-making committees involving judges, professors of law, authoritative lawyers. And after much discussion, this committee tabled the changes which it itself proposed in the Greek Parliament. Changes were made to the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code, which the previous governments did not have the courage and courage to do in our country. Unfortunately, what is currently being done in this House is to party if you want the process of conducting legal proceedings in our country. You say that the aim of this piece of legislation is to strengthen anti-crime policy. Really? Are there not other ministries responsible for this exercise, for strengthening the security of citizens? Do you think that with your own sense of security in the country you can change that by changing the Code of Criminal Procedure, the Criminal Code in our country? You, Minister, as a new lawyer and Member of Parliament, know very well, because you are also a legal body in the field, that this piece of legislation, this law which is currently being discussed in Parliament and which is to be passed by the government majority, is not happy to be supported by any body, by any collective body concerned with your own ministry. Judges, lawyers, professors oppose the change in the laws of the Criminal Codes you bring to the Greek Parliament today, saying that the oldest Criminal Code: First, it has not been implemented and it takes a time to see how the codes can function and, second, these changes have been made through the debate and the work of years of law theory. Allow me quickly to make a reference to two amendments. I shall refer to the amendment to add the Ministry of Labour to the first sign. Listen, this account announced by the Prime Minister from the step of the Thessaloniki International Exhibition, that you will receive EUR 1,200 for the unemployed in our country, collapses only by reading the principle of this amendment. And because, Minister, I have been through the Ministry of Labour and I know why I had OAED in my own portfolio and the OAED programmes - and Mr Brutsis as former Minister knows it very well - this kind of amendment is the maximum mockery that you can make to the unemployed in our country. The programmes that we had designed had an increase in the pay of the people who entered these programmes and we had established programmes of scientists who helped to get the pensions out. Unfortunately, Mr Brutsis has closed this OAS programme by his own decision and we are currently in the growth of pensions which have not been attributed to the beneficiaries. I think you should rethink: firstly, the role of the OAED programmes and, secondly, you should not do such a micropolicy to the unemployed of our country. The second amendment to which I should like to refer is the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group regarding the introduction of sex-based crime in Greek criminal law and the recognition of the term 'female murder'. It is a debate that has received much publicity and the whole world is now irritated by the fact that the New Democracy, following its most conservative ideals, does not recognise the right of women to be protected by law. To others you're very open. In this process you are not open. I think you should change that logic. It is the New Democracy MP and the other ladies and gentlemen. I think that all of us should now press for this term to be recognised by Criminal Law and by Greek law, so that we can protect more from the area that is now being protected and which, in my view, is not sufficient, the lives of women from whom sex crimes are committed in our country. Minister, I understand the oldest people in the New Democracy who are indeed extreme conservatives. However, as a young man, as a young legal person and as a young age child, you should understand that for what is happening in our country - and not only is our country, everywhere, unfortunately, we are becoming aware of offences against women all over the world - but what is happening in our country, I think, is the time to take this step and, indeed, women are equal - not to say more, because my view is more extreme, I believe that women's sex is more powerful - but at least at the legal level, women become equal and protect against any offence against them from the male population. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr. Barca. The parliamentary representative of the Change Movement, Kostas Scandalidis, has asked for the floor. Mr. Scandalidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, you will allow me to begin with a feeling I felt yesterday. When our rapporteur, the Minister, whom I know and appreciate many years about his morality, his composition and his seriousness, spoke ironically to our rapporteur and laughing at the fact that our attitude is contradictory and how else he says, but the other one says so. I don't think it's for laughing at us. It is laughing at the unacceptable way that the government legislates and I will be explained. Instead of looking for what you are doing the cause, you should pay them to the opposition. We must of course admit that you have brought our party's parliamentary group once again into a difficult position, because on issues that exist, which are in need of serious regulation, you are once again moving to the specific limit between democracy and authoritarianism, between the punishing and penalising the judiciary of the judiciary, between your poorly understood communication need in every choice. You are cursing, in the same piece of legislation, necessary and positive arrangements with unacceptable arrangements that alter the nature and content of critical institutions or omissions that do so in the constitutional and institutional formation of democracy. You have done the same at the universities and brought us in a difficult position with asylum, labour rights, the insurance system and a number of themes which you considered to be your reform achievements. In fact, they are monuments of anti-reform odor. The criticism of our rapporteur in committee and our rapporteur in plenary is identical to almost all of their positions. Both ended up looking after Parliament in the hopes that you might change what you have unacceptablely incorporated and distorting the principles. So the shades between 'yes', 'yes' and 'no' in principle come from a scale that you put the weights and you don't realize that you are the weights themselves and not a parliamentary group that passes through fire and iron, striving to keep the positives and disapprove the negatives, because it doesn't oppose the plate and wants to be constructive where it should be and lifting up impurities whenever it has to. I wish you New Democracy Members in your own parliamentary group would have had this thorough dialogue before you decided to treat the genographies that you usually bring as reform policies in Parliament. It would be a contribution to better functioning of Parliament and democracy. Ladies and gentlemen, I have referred to the way you legislate. Institutional legislation such as the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure cannot be amended under the pressure of temporary topicality and as a means of conducting communication policy by the government concerned. The changes that have been attempting over the past decades in the field of justice and, in particular, the critical changes in codification of the rules of law have been recommended to the governments by law and judiciary actors of high prestige, irrevocable ethos and undeniable cognitive competence. Let me remind you in turn of the heads of such committees: Manoledakis, Synonidou - Kastanidou, Mark, Argyropoulos. The spirit of the Constitution, which wants the independence of justice and its dismissal from political purposes, is to accept and vote for its proposal every time in the committee without intervention, and in economic terms governments are taking action in the committee's conclusions. The executive power should either accept or reject a committee's proposal as a whole. On the eve of the 19th elections, the proposal from the Committee on Christoforou Argyropoulos comes from the SYRIZA government of the House with changes in the foot and changes which, in our view, change the substance of the proposal. And you, before speaking three times in your reformist oestrus, continue and legislate on real problems of crucial importance for social consequences with unbelievably lightness and selective policies with exclusive communication criteria. And because you chose a political debate to involve even Fofi Gennimata, as I heard yesterday, the Gender Fofi, as well as any progressive citizen, indeed wanted the strictness of the sentences - and we want it - in sexual crime and demanded, as we demand today, that these sentences be effective and that is why we are today voting in favour of the relevant provisions. There is, however, a very long distance between it and blind criminal repression, a generalised conservative reaction that is not accompanied by reform of the penitentiary system, does not trigger socially beneficial work, does not take care to prevent crime, which has no principle or central philosophy, but is simply responding to the blemishes of news. To tell you the truth, Minister, you had the opportunity to not go so quickly before you did other things to your Ministry, which are very critical and must have already been done, for example, the placement of the courts that would enable the procedures to be decentralised, for example, the activation of the institution of judicial mediation that would bring fewer cases, for example the decongestion of the three primary courts in Greece, where all of Greece is gathered. Many things you could do with what you are bringing today and before what you are bringing today so that we could talk about the action of the administration, the decision of the courts. I think that you have had this opportunity, but you have only given the name of today's reality, the difficult thing, with the increase in crime, with all of this responding to the public's sense of law, and with the result that you have only been rigorously penalised and some right choices, which - I repeat - we shall vote on. Strongening, of course, is no reform. If the reintroduction of the condition of dismissal is not accompanied by specific judicial guarantees, which are not accompanied, it is not so much of a meaning if it is linked to additional suffocating pressure on additional burdens in prisons that are already stacking overnumbers of prisoners is not a solution. That's what you didn't think before you brought this arrangement. More specifically, in the wording of Article 151 on the dispersion of false news, for example, strong mental elements are introduced that are transformed into conduct without justifying how legal goods can be damaged, that it is not just enough to challenge the provision that is characterised by an unprecedented statement of reasons. Is there any use, for example, of network-related opinions relating to public faith which undermine public confidence in the national economy, public health, the country's defence capacity? These are political dialogue issues. These are issues that are discussed every day. Have you put the shield, the legal protection in this debate, which can't be banned in this debate so that it doesn't go to fleas each in court? We are also persons who have been subjected to insulting attacks at times and, in fact, in an intimate way and we must be protected. But is it the protection you propose appropriate? Is it complete? It's not in my opinion. By abolishing Article 95 of Law 4623 you rightly want to reinstate social work as an alternative to imprisonment. We don't disagree. However, you do not see anything about the organisation of the support structures of the administration that implement it. You practically continue to leave her inactive. Experience has shown, however, that the issues of a person's social work coming out of prison are issues which need to be linked to a series of judicial guarantees and, at the same time, to a design where he will go, where he will be, what he will do so that there can be a social reintegration and not a further feeling that you are bringing him back to the deadlock to do a misdemeanour. Embedded solutions, with a more characteristic example of converting into a felony of arson, regardless of whether a fire will be caused. I mean, someone's setting fire to a porcupine, it can be considered a felony. I think that these are exaggerations which do not really help to tackle the problem and to prosecute those who really cause fires. It seems more like your own deficiency for anti-nuclear protection, for the inability of the conditions to provide the means and the possibility of not re-establishing or reducing the natural disasters that are multiplying each year. Basically, you're transferring her to a criminal prosecution, which will get people to act like thieves and police officers. It's not right. It is not right for democracy in the first place. I shall also refer to the issue of homicide. Here we agree that when the sentence is to be life, it must be life, but you must allow the court to decide. Accumulate, if you will, the time of the creation, but do not remove the opportunity from the court to decide and force the court to decide whether it will be in prison, whether it will be temporary in prison or whether it will be lifelong. Life when we say we mean life. These are, in my opinion, practical solutions. In closing, Mr President, I return to the overall criticism of your proposal. The dilemma is not: or stricter penalties or a continuation of unacceptable and proliferating daily crime to be dealt with by the Greek state. The question is, where there needs to be tightening up, particularly in sexual crime, in rape, in women's homicides, in the rape of minors, in family violence, in the robbery after murder, we are telling you a series of them, in order to tighten up and which we will obviously vote in favour of. To tighten up, however, in a modern and effective framework of anti-crime policy with a focus on prevention, social cohesion, education, but above all without any direct or indirect abolition of rights that turn our judiciary into punishment. When anti-criminal policy is taken from justice as the first act of the government and transferred it to the police, you are actually taking the first step towards the creation of fundamental assumptions of the rule of law. And, unfortunately, this was the first act of your government's Ministry of Justice. Your bill, therefore, does not be blamed for a coherent philosophy, an integrated reformist spirit for a modern anti-crime policy, and that is why we cannot vote in principle. We're not making legal activism, we're not hiding behind legal, dogmatic theories. We are stationary and we are deciding, so we will vote'residents' in the first place and we will put the burden on the articles on the substance of politics rather than on telecommunications or micro-political interests that is your permanent practice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u32	And we thank Mr. Scandalides. And he has the floor, after the Stepma has been settled, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Anastasios Bartzokas. Here, Mr Bartzokas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Minister, Mr Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the Criminal Code is the backbone, the foundation, the pillar of the Criminal Law. Any legislative intervention on this is therefore of great importance from the outset. Therefore, the preparation of the legislation in question requires a great deal of seriousness and certainly requires a political consensus. Crime and punishment, the most important objects of the Criminal Code, have neither colours nor parties, nor, of course, - without seeking to scratch wounds to the past - any change to the Criminal Code must be made in an unsuspecting political time, not overnight, because otherwise there are legitimate concerns about the feasibility of the changes. We all know that criminal law is the very place that focuses on balancing the basic principles and values of the rule of law. On the one hand, the exercise and application of criminal rules is primarily a exercise of a balance between crime prevention, and therefore the security of citizens. On the other hand, the exercise of criminal law is the prerogative of the penitentiary and the smooth integration of the detained person into society. This exercise of equilibrium is not done in vacant but is framed by the principles of the rule of law, the protection of life, human dignity and the principle of proportionality. Regardless of the essential subject of criminal law, it must be accepted by all of us that criminal law itself seeks above all to regulate the conditions of social life and human coexistence. And under this perspective criminal law itself is inextricably integrated with society and social reality. Therefore, criminal law and its reform must not lose its contact with society. Otherwise criminal law is sterilized and lost its purpose. It goes without saying that any criminal reform by the legislator should not be guided and dictated by the temporary satisfaction of the popular feeling and popular tendencies. It must remain firmly committed to the principles of the democratic state and its foundations. And from this perspective, legislative interventions under discussion enhance our criminal law, because they demonstrate that we are in constant contact with society. We can't let reality get beyond us. We cannot stay unsuccessful in the face of serious crimes or spectators in the face of new forms of crimes, such as those relating to the environment and the climate crisis. Boldly, then, we are taking the next step towards modernising our criminal law. In summary, we would say that the amendments form four packages, which seek to meet a double objective. On a first level, they correct past failures, covering gaps and windows, either favourable to serious crime, or by introducing more timely penalties for light crime. On a second level they come to create a strong framework for the armoury of the criminal weaponry, adapting penalties to modern forms of crime, such as crimes against the environment. First of all, we have the tightening up of penalties for specific criminal offences, such as homicides, rape of minors or the fatal robbery. The sentence of temporary detention is deleted and life sentences are provided for. Within the amended provisions, there is provision for a stricter penalty for intended serious physical damage, while in the sense of serious physical harm, disability and permanent deformation are added. In addition to the tightening of penalties for specific crimes, this draft law incorporates provisions for reform of the framework of the conditions for granting the condition of dismissal. The new legislation increases the actual elaboration of the sentence, so that we do not have phenomena in which people are convicted of serious crimes are out of prison in a short time. The second set of regulations focuses on new risks and forms of modern crime. Crimes, for example, the crime of arsonism, as well as the arson of forests, but also all commonly dangerous crimes, turn into abstract-risk crimes. There is no need, that is to say, to cause damage to a penalty. The apportionment may be effected by invoking and haunting the risk. Accordingly, for a risk crime, the possibility of imposing an equitable collapsing penalty in the event of death of even one person is envisaged. With this set of provisions, Criminal law seeks to strengthen in an excellent and coherent manner the deterrent character of Criminal Law, in relation to crimes related both to the environment and to human life and to personal property. The third package refers to crimes against personal freedom, sexual freedom and economic exploitation of sexual life. Crimes degraded to delinquents, such as incest, turn into felonies. Penalties for trafficking in human beings are being persecuted, and the persecution of sexual dignity in the workplace is becoming self-evident. The aim of these arrangements is to ensure the effective punishment of those operating vulnerable groups that require increased protection from the institutional framework. The fourth package focuses on crimes against minors. The purpose of the extension of the limitation period for victims to have sufficient time to denounce to the authorities the offences, tighten the penalties for offences against the sexual freedom of minors, and hence enable the prosecutor to prosecute the offences automatically. For all the above, therefore, the vote of today's bill is an act of responsibility to Greek society, because the sun must be understandable and leave no shadow to leave no citizen unprotected from its rays. But the political positions of all of us must also be the same. The positive vote in the drafting arrangements is a clear political position and is a positive vote not on the government initiative, but a positive vote on the security, freedom and the upgrading of justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u34	And we thank Mr Bartzokas. He has the floor, after the Stepma has been settled, the Member of the New Democracy, Mr Pericles Mantas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u35	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, Minister, Vice-President, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill best proves that the government is listening, understanding and understanding the need and priority of Greek society for a substantial and effective fight against crime in all its forms. Because it is, in fact, a one-way road for us, since we are seeking to live in a modern society, in a democratic, open and fair country, in a country where laws and the rule of law are respected and applied without delay, since, therefore, we are choosing to live in such a society, it is necessary that our rules are respected and enforced in equality and equality, but also our penalties are not inappropriate and ineffective, but correspond to the gravity and consequences of any offence. Because that is how the common sense is served for every citizen who wants to feel that justice works, that crime is punished and that infraction and crime simply cannot be tolerated. With today's bill, then, a key and main objective is achieved: a stricterization of penalties for particularly heinous crimes and crimes of great criminal decency. What, then, are these crimes and what accusations are we talking about? And in the end, what reasonable man could argue? We're talking about the last treason, the homicide, the group rape, the fatal rape, the fatal robbery. Crimes, that is, particularly heinous, crimes that destroy lives and destroy families, crimes for which rigour is due and must be exhausted. And what now is foreseen for them? Just one sentence. In all cases, life imprisonment, as is certainly the case with our rule of law. At the same time, penalties for serious physical damage are being severed. Thus, especially for the intended serious physical damage, for those actions, which are intended to cause disability and permanent deformation of the victim, the new law provides for an increase in the penalty, which can now be reached for fifteen years. The possibilities offered by the law for dismissal under conditions, because it is not possible for people convicted of trafficking in drugs, for criminal organisations, for terrorist acts and robberies, for blackmailing and trafficking in human beings, for grabbing minors to serve small sentences and being fired under conditions prior to their time, normally circulating and only wearing an electronic surveillance instrument. Penalties should therefore be and should be longer and the length of stays in prison establishments should be sufficient for criminals to be punished fairly and society to be adequately protected against violation and crime. The framework for environmental and climate crisis-related crimes is also getting stronger. The arson of forests is now being punished as a place at risk regardless of whether there has been any damage, so that the attempt can be persecuted, without necessarily connected to the result. At the same time, it is transformed from a felony to a felony and is related to the challenge of ecological destruction. Because, as we all saw last summer in northern Evia, despite the effective protection of human lives, the ecological disaster was truly enormous and despite government vigilance, the restoration of damage, the restoration of the natural environment and the return of our region to normal conditions and normality will take years. It is also modernising the framework for crimes of sexual freedom and dignity by prosecuting a workplace's insult to become self-prosecuting and without a requirement for a previous complaint. Incest is now becoming a felony and trafficking in human beings, a crime which deprives people of their very physical status and which finds victims among the most vulnerable social groups, such as minors, citizens of third countries and victims of sexual exploitation and abuse, is now being punished more severely and more effectively. Finally, the crimes of minors are now being dealt with more rigorously, but also more flexiblely for the benefit of all their victims and with the aim of highlighting every crime and the exemplary punishment of the perpetrator. Who could argue with all this? Ladies and gentlemen, it is easy to understand that with today's bill we are leading to a more correct, fairer and more effective institutional framework against crime that is plagued by Greek society. Was that necessary? Clearly, yes. Because it reflects a timeless demand from the Greek society, which calls for a reduction in crime and a more representative efficiency of justice. Is the framework too strict? Clearly not. Because it ensures that those who are criminals - and we are not talking about fraud and petty, but about major and serious crimes that break up prospects and destroy lives - are all those victims to the law and through a fair and unbiased process, as is appropriate in a democratic society, brought to justice. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, given that we are debating today a bill on the law in our own country, I would not be able to refer to the particularly insulting and demeaning verbal attack that our Prime Minister and through which our own country has taken up yesterday. Because the rule of law of our country and the democraticity of our institutions have been called into question, and our sovereign rights have been called into question through an indiscriminate and unequivocal adoption of Turkish propaganda. So let them be twice as careful as those in the country mistransmit the Turkish account and their unwilling positions. Because Greece is the rule of law and has institutions and rules and we will not allow anyone to insult us or to divert us by taking advantage of the freedom of speech which we all enjoy in this country. If they want, let them look for responsibilities to the neighbour between the traffickers' circuits and the lack of their democratic institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u36	And we thank Mr. Mada. Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25 Mr. Claus Gregoriadis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u37	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the reason you are giving me. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Adamopoulou has mentioned the problems of the Code of Criminal Procedure. I will not eat your time with them, as there are issues of topicality and I am a parliamentary representative. I will only say this, Minister, dear Mr Chiara. Indeed, in some areas, there was a need for stricter penalties. The whole of Greece is in agreement with this, there is no doubt about it. If we tighten the penalties without ensuring that we build the infrastructure that will accept the product of strictness, we are creating, Minister, a future problem very serious. You know, the problem is complicated. On the one hand, we already know that a very important problem in our prisons is assembling. And I say it, Minister, because crowding, i.e. inhuman detention conditions, creates recycling in crime. I mean, people who are stacked and cruelly passing their sentence usually become worse criminals than they got in. So we say that first a nomadic government must build the infrastructure, and then it must tighten up the legal framework that will lead to many more hundreds of thousands of people in prisons. Also, you have a bad witness. Not you personally, but the government of "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.", as we like to call it the Mera25. You have the bad testimony of the past, as you are extremist neoliberals and you would also say ideolically "private" to cause us to worry that this strictness is behind it and the willingness to privatise part of future prisons. And I say this, Minister, because, as we already know, the prisons planned by your Government to build in Aspropyrgos are PPPs, i.e. they are public-private partnerships. He attempted this model in America with very bad results. You want to know a result? One is that the United States of America is currently, Minister, hosting 25% worldwide of prisoners, and of course the proportion they have as an area and a population is far less. They're hosting a quarter of Earth's prisoners. And that has been the case since their private prisons were made, as there you need to know that the various terrible businessmen collect a certain amount per prisoner's head, usually a black prisoner or, in any case, a marginalist. And so, Minister, we have reached the level of traditional, simple, normal, well-known slavery, since in many cases in private and federal prisons the prisoners spend their day working almost unpaidly, increasing the profitability of modern slaves, who are, of course, willingly taking over the contractors. We do not blame you for that yet, because you have not done so. But we tell you, and we strike the alarm that we are very concerned that there may be such a design from behind, as the next prisons they will build in Greece in Aspropyrgos will be a public-private partnership. Your mania for privatization is known. We saw them in education. With Article 16 you tried to do so in the Constitutional Review. You didn't make it. Mrs. Kerameau did so from the window as long as she can, as long as the educational community and the students leave her. We see it in health too, and that's where I want to get there. Look. You are ministers of another Ministry, but you are representatives of the government and I want to talk - and this will be the main part of my speech today, Mr President - about the dramatic shift which is taking slowly - the pandemic again in our country. First of all, Kyriakos Mitsotakis has been personally exposed, at least three times, as I have heard him three times to announce a pan-Hellenic network in a complaint about the end of the pandemic. Your Government has declared, in other words, Minister, three times or four already the end of a pandemic, which proves to have never been stronger. The situation of this pandemic has never been worse than today. So the communal sermons of her end are boomerang. They lead to humiliation. Look what's happened. You know, we cannot be accused of anyone in this Chamber for populism, as we are - and if you have forgotten, the Greek people remember it - who, a year and a half ago, from this Step, I myself, as a Parliamentary spokesman of Mera25, all of our Members when they took the floor, our Secretary, Yiannis Varoufakis, congratulated you on February 2020 and March 2020 on the management of the pandemic and on the achievement of clearly having the least dead and the least of all our European and neighbouring countries. We are, therefore, the ones who congratulated you, so we cannot now be accused of being populists or voters when we tell you that the situation has escaped as a whole. Look, Mr. Ministers. The dead until yesterday were sixteen thousand four hundred seventy three, and that's a overwhelming number. Yesterday, Mr President-in-Office, we lost seventy-nine of our people. And seventy-nine fellow men are too many to be lost. Will one question be reasonable, what has happened, what has happened, and from the congratulations we have given we have almost reached the dammit we should give you? We need to give you up right now. It's done, Mr. Ministers, something very specific. The 2020 and 2021 budget has been made. In other words, you have made a budget of 2021 in the middle of a pandemic, in the midst of the worsening pandemic, which removed 600 million from health compared to 2020, and especially for the costs anticipated for COVID, it took 300 million away. 300 million is an outrageous sum to remove it. When, Mr. President? At the time the pandemic's in her pic. That's exactly what you did and that's exactly the result of living today. I'll give you some numbers that are creepy. We have three and a half thousand nursing patients with COVID and we've had an empty ITH bed for days across northern Greece. Four intubated patients yesterday, Mr. Ministers, were out of my mind at the "Papanikolaou", two intrinsic patients were out of my mind yesterday in "AHEPA", four of our fellow people, our fellow patients were intubated outside of the ITH in "Hippokratio" and five of our fellow citizens were intact yesterday in the "Papagorium". Here's what Mr. Ploris, the Minister of Health, said. I have said - what strange - that Mr Kiilias left as a bad Minister of Health and that Mr Ploris was here as the best Minister of Health. At least the last one was a doctor. This is a lawyer and, indeed, a lawyer whose main aim in politics is to wipe out the people of Exarchates. He is, in our view, an unsuitable Minister for Health. So listen to his statement yesterday or yesterday. He said your Minister: 'Even no orders have been made to private doctors'. But the day before yesterday, on 9 November, Mr. Ploris, speaking "SKAI" said that "if the private sector fails to respond to the invitation, the Ministry will be forced to proceed with a service order". And I'm asking you, why now is it really challenging? That is a provocative statement. Did I tell you how many of our fellow men are intubated in common beds or in ranches, that is, outside the ICM, and the Minister responsible says that if the situation continues in a week will proceed to the requisitions? It is unacceptable, Mr President-in-Office. It is criminally unacceptable that Mr. Ploris says that the time has not yet come when eleven of our fellow men yesterday in northern Greece would die outside of the MDG because there were no MDGs. But there are licenses in the private sector. What can Mr. Plearis also mean by the term 'cheque'? Does he mean the requisitions we made last year? So, what, the ones you paid twice and three times the strains you've imposed on the private sector, which you've given them twice as much money as it costs our ER? These are not cheques. Mr. Varoufakis has said since last year from this Step forward that we know that when you want to requisition a cam because the conqueror comes to take over your country by war, then you don't stop the driver, and you tell him I'm gonna take your cage because I need to fight it for the homeland, but get a rent for the camio of good evil, don't come in. You're saying I'm on it! Here we have a war, a normal war, as I told you with sixteen thousand four hundred seventy-three dead until yesterday. Well, that doesn't pick up any orders you're paying for, it doesn't pick up any deals. These are not cheques. We now demand cheques and demand that all this mocking end! 90% is the completeness of the ICUs throughout the territory. Once your new measures have been put into effect, Ministers, i.e. the government's measures on pandemic for a week now, all operators of focusing on the ground report a fall in turnover to 50%. Do you know what will happen after all? This is gonna happen. There will be no lockdown in the country, but the people will behave as if there is a lockdown, as it is completely impossible for him to come out. We have said on several occasions and we will repeat it as much as it costs us that no matter how much we can catch in cloudy waters - the uninvasive I mean, which touch 45% at home, and it is a huge tank for a party of 3.6%, you know - we will not accept it. We will continue stubbornly to tell all tons that we are fanatical in favour of vaccinations, as vaccines are the greatest invention of medical science so far. We trust them and see clearly that they are effective. We are, unfortunately, Mr President and Mr Ministers, for a year of fanatical and vaccines. Do you know what your Government, Mr. Mitsotakis and Mr. Ploris have done? I am vaccinated with two doses of vaccine, and when the time comes, Mr Ministers, I will also do the third, because I want to do it to protect myself for reasons of personal survival. However, do you know what I have the right to do without any tests? I have the right to go to concerts, I have the right to go to theatres, I have the right to go to restaurants, and I have the right to go - in short, to understand it - where the Greek people smoke me, Mr President, without any tests, while we know that it is well known worldwide, that I am broadcasting at the moment. And let me go. I may be responsible and a serious citizen and not go broadcast. All our operating surgeons are vaccinated, otherwise they're out of the system. You've thrown them out of the system free of charge, man-made. So all our surgeons, who are vaccinated, scientifically documented, can infect the operating patient. You don't make them run any tests. I would mention, Mr President-in-Office, this extreme irrationality. That absurdity is extremist. We're fantastic in favor of vaccines, but we're more fanatical in favour of tests without exceptions to vaccinated and unvaccinated. Look what's happened now. I will finish very quickly, Minister. The demonized health doctors and doctors who have not been vaccinated, the about six thousand hundred fellow men, I remind you - and I must remind you that because I am an honest and honest man - that they are the same people who have not invented vaccines, who have not had vaccines, have not had the duck, have not been lulled, have not been hidden, have not declared a false monkey disease. They went to their places, without any cover and fought for a coherent year to save our fellow humans and saved dozens, hundreds or thousands, risking their lives. You've done this to these people. You have removed them from their work, with which we agree, without giving them a way to survive, with which we disagree. We have proposed from the outset that you give them at least half of their wages so that they can keep their lives in dignity, Mr President. It's the elementary. They're not random people. These are the people who supported the National Health System, which you all did not support together. And you know why I'm saying you didn't support it? And I tell you face to face. You have not hired - it is national, it is global, it is cosmological disgrace - nor a permanent doctor in our National Health System for a year and a half and sixteen thousand seven hundred, if I'm not wrong, dead after. Do you know what Mr. Peucas said? The other day, I insulted him for that. He said to me: Mr Gregoriadis, we have contracted one or two thousand six hundred doctors and health and we will judge how many and whom we will perpetuate in due time. You're making fun of society, Ministers! You are making fun of society, "Kyriakos Mitsotakis S.A.". Why are you mocking her? Because if now, with the social pressure of sixteen thousand dead, you don't hire anyone, slowly don't admit to hiring even half when this is over and out. It is obvious, Mr President - and I will conclude with this - that in trying to privatise a part of the New Democracy, or, ultimately, our whole health, it is a necessary treaty and a check to destroy the ESS. And how can a national health system be enclosed? When you take care of it. As, then, years now - all the years of the memorials - all the people who retire, are not replaced by anyone, you are inflaming the ESS. I know, as I'm from a medical family with three doctors in my home, that medicine is an empirical science. The older man takes the younger student's hand and learns it. You have disfellowshipped the ESS from all the old, as you have humiliated the wages and as you do not hire anyone more mature. All the new ones have no experience to get them and show them how this operation takes place, how the other operation takes place, how an intubation takes place. They don't have anyone! And you don't learn it in the manual, you learn it in practice. So I say to you that by reducing health expenditure in a scandalous way by 600,000,000 when we die every day seventeen fellow citizens that by not hiring unregulated, without being ashamed and blushing out of shame, not a doctor almost two years later and sixteen thousand dead, you will be worthy of your fate when the Greek people take you sometime in hunting. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u38	Before I give the floor to the Minister of National Defence, Mr Nicos Panayotopoulos, in order to put her on the table with a number of 1126 and a special 91 amendments relating to the issues of the Eleusina Shipyards, I would like - as I do every time for many years - to thank him once again as a member of the West Attica for the opportunity to thank him, because first of all - and I know it well, because I have been pushing him for days - he has put this amendment forward - as he always does - in order to pay workers at Elefsina Shipyards, in the belief that - as he announced days ago, Mr Georgiadis - we are in the final straight line that the Eleusina Shipyards will acquire a new, dynamic employer. This will put an end to the long-term hostage of the workers and will bring these important Elefsina Shipyards into a development phase for the good of the past and above all of the West Attica and the workers in the region, as well as the country in general. Because the shipbuilding industry for our country has such potential that it can give too much capital to the development of the country. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. I shall be speaking very briefly, diverting the debate from the amendment to the Criminal Code. I do not understand whether the government's fight against pandemic is also criminalised in the context of this amendment, on the basis of what I have heard. But that is not my point, ladies and gentlemen. I am simply coming to support Amendment No 1126/91/8-11-2021 by the Ministry of National Defence, which contains two provisions concerning the continuation of support for the shipbuilding work carried out in Elefsina Shipyards, in order to complete the construction of the remaining fast Patrol Patrol Patrol Patrol Patriarch. 7 and the continuation of work in the four submarines of the Warship Navy in Scaramaga. I hope that this will be the last time that the Government will have to proceed with an extension of the contract between the Navy and the shipyard workers in order to complete this shipyard work, as investment attempts are under way in both these shipyards. As far as you know, Scaramaga has already found an investor. There's some, I'd say, delayed due to legal complications due to appeals filed. I think they will be resolved as soon as possible - I hope - in order to install the investor and implement his investment project in Scaramaga Shipyards. As far as Elefsinas Shipyards are concerned, there is also an attempt to find an investor, which is in its final phase, since there has already been an interest in this. I therefore believe that the successive amendments - three-month extensions to contracts between the Navy and the workers in order to continue to work - and, of course, to complete the shipyard work in these two shipyards, since their importance to support units of the Navy is given and recognised by everyone - not just by the Government - we are moving forward with this arrangement. So with this amendment on Elefsina Shipyards, I will say: First, however, I must also acknowledge your interest, Mr Vice-President, and the interest of the Deputy Justice Minister present in the debate, because the Elefsina region is your constituency. So you have made your own struggle to communicate with the concerns of the workers. Let us note that this is what we have been asking for over this two-year period, where every three months we have come and extended the existing conventions, and it has also been with the support of workers. It was not so much about the completion or acceleration of the shipbuilding project, it was mainly about the fact that that government recognises that these workers should not be found in vacuum air. And he's practically backed it up. And, indeed, this House, I think, as a whole, supported this approach. Thus, as far as Elefsina Shipyards are concerned, this contract is extended for a further period of three months, until 31/12-2021, so that ITPN7 will be awarded as soon as possible to the Navy. We believe that this will be done in the next year, given that the work is relatively slow. However, we believe that, in the next year, the last rocket will also be handed over by those assigned to the construction of the Elefsina shipyards. The same applies to Scaramaga shipyards. As you know, Scaramaga shipyard staff supports maintenance work in the four submarines of the Navy. He's acquired this know-how for several years, and he's been doing his job well. We therefore consider it appropriate to extend this convention until 31 December this year by means of the amendment we are introducing, since until then we consider that legal outstandingities will have been resolved and that the investor in Scaramaga shipyards will have been installed to move to the new phase, to the new era of operation of these shipyards. You know that for both conventions this amendment and the additional funding relates to payroll, insurance contributions for workers, operating expenses and staff mobility services, both to materials and services for the completion of the programmes. You know the process. You've approved it in the past. I don't have to say any more. I just repeat our appreciation and our legitimate hope that this will be the last time we will have to move from this House to such an amendment. The continued working life of both shipyards has been financed so far. If possible, we have tried to combine this with the production of shipbuilding with the problems that exist. I believe, however, that if both these efforts are successful and investors are installed in the Elefsina and Scaramaga shipyards, the situation will change for the better rather than quickly and in fact from the next year, and these two shipyards will operate in a completely different way. It will be a new era, with all the benefits that this entails for our national defence industry and the possibilities of supporting the Hellenic Navy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u40	Thank you too, Minister. And that is the important thing that all these years are being held up, so that they can be given the opportunity from now on to gain the momentum that can be gained. The Foreign Minister, Mr Kotsiras, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u41	Thank you very much, Mr President. I too welcome the amendment tabled just now by the Minister of National Defence, Mr Panayotopoulos, for the Elefsina shipyards, which are really experiencing a difficult period and the government's effort is strengthening and ensuring the payment of workers. All this time she's humiliating her agony. And we all hope that a lasting solution will upgrade the wider field of Elefsina shipyards to the benefit of both the national economy and the local economy. I was in my speech yesterday on the main points of the bill, but I will do it again. I have to do this again because I have to hear Mr Barkas mention - Mr Lappas was present - for the scientific bodies. It probably did not follow yesterday's debate or the discussions of the committee. So I'm saying it again for the third time. The issues of criminal law are complex, difficult, technically, there are many differentiations. The majority of the scientific bodies that came to Parliament and were placed, said that the provisions of the bill were in the right direction with the individual amendments proposed and a detailed discussion. It does not mean - as I said yesterday - that, in order to correct changes in criminal codes, we need centuries to see serious errors concerning the protection of minors, serious errors concerning the protection of victims, serious errors concerning major criminal decency offences to which the legislator must intervene and cannot be locked in a glass to operate sterile and out of social reality. Mr Barkas also mentioned what we should or should learn in the first year of law, Mr Lappa. And since you are also a law-approved person, I imagine that you, too, agree that we do not learn in the first year of law that someone who is the offence of rape, group rape, fatal robbery, manslaughter, all the other offences involving sensitive and vulnerable social groups must be punished by temporary imprisonment and come out at two-fifths of the sentence, that is to say six years. I do not think that this is in line with the principle of proportionality. Because it is another principle of proportionality and another trend towards impunity. We fully respect the principle of proportionality, we fully respect the crown of criminal science, the rights of the defendant, but we cannot outweigh the rights of the victims and their protection. And no victim is protected when the behavior of the state and of criminal science towards the perpetrator has that direction. I have mentioned specific offences which, unfortunately, do not mention any position of any SYRIZA Member and explain why he disagrees with the strictness of this framework, except those I mentioned, such as the sexual act with a minor if death occurs, the seduction of minors, the abuse of minors. I mentioned it yesterday. We are listening to a generalised position on what is supposed to be stricter, without mentioning which one you are specifically differentiated. I would like to mention, because I forgotten yesterday, in two specific offences such as the life sentence of minors under Article 349 who are returning to the penal code - it was abolished by the 2019 penal code - and I am combining it with the trafficking in human beings - where the framework of penalties is stricter, namely if the act comes from death, there is a life sentence for imprisonment, and it is added to the offences for which the limits of the training sentence are increased beneficially or through realisation - because we have to inform the National Representation that we have in the Ministry of Justice set up an important working group on human trafficking, and because there is also a special subcommittee in the House on human trafficking are the main demands that those who have always been involved, namely the combination of adult mastration together with the strict treatment of human trafficking in order to tackle a very serious issue of organised crime. And - as I said - you don't have to spend centuries to correct mistakes. And I would expect you to highlight this, Mr. Lappa and Mr. Xanthopoulou, who are dealing with legal science, that there is a gap in fairness in these offences. As well as the addition to Article 228 of the Code of Criminal Procedure for examining adult victims of sexual harassment and abuse in the presence of a psychologist. Because that is how we help the adult victims with the procedural amendments that will also be made to the legislative improvements that will exist, to protect the victims of such acts. I'm closing because I don't want to abuse time. I was placed yesterday. And I took the floor for specifically three offences I forgot yesterday because they are connected and are of major importance. With regard to organised crime, the list of offences provided for the lifting of confidentiality and the case of serious intended physical harm and the arson of forests is added to the list. In fact, I have heard Mr Scandalides say that there is a felony for arsoning forests in his basic dimension. It is a major shameful offence of particular defiance with environmental damage for the country, for any country, and I think that the legislator is not closing eyes and has to deal with it in the way we are dealing with this provision. I have an answer to Mrs Adamopoulou. I told Mr. Lappa. When I said that this is what we are doing now in committees, I mean that the criminal legislature is a link between a chain of crime. He's not the only one, but he's a key link. So what we are doing is in a specific direction and in a concrete way to protect victims of criminal acts. The rest is a great debate on education, policing, structures - we have said it yesterday - and it is indeed a point. That is why I said that this is what we are doing now, which is what we are talking about as a criminal aspect of the problem. And I would really like to see these kinds of offences that we are really dealing with in a more stringent way, support this choice. And not to hide behind our finger and to say about a strictening of a more general nature that is supposedly conservative, backward. It is purely progressive to predict that vulnerable citizens, weak citizens, victims of trafficking in human beings, victims of trafficking, minors. They are key pillars of social sensitivity that the state must show through the criminal context. [[At this point the First Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Nikitas Kaklamanis, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] So, ladies and gentlemen, I close by saying that this is an opportunity, if anything, to agree on it. And hiding behind our finger to allegedly present a shift that is in favour of the victims of criminal acts and sends a clear message of protection to Greek society, I think it is a mistake from Antipopulation. We have a clear position in favour of these people, and that is why we want the Greek society to understand it and tell her that you disagree with these provisions one by one. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u42	We'll lead as follows. I shall now give the floor to the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsi. Then will Mrs Anastasia - Catherine Alexopoulou speak from the Greek Solution. Then there's a rest of Mrs. Jackie from yesterday. And then we'll keep going. But the three next ones now are the way you heard them. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u43	Ladies and gentlemen, before I refer to the bill in general and not to the details of it, which have been of importance for which, in my opinion, there have been excellent suggestions and to the committee and here by our rapporteur, by our Parliamentary representative, by the Members of Parliament, and by other Members, and which have made the differences clear, before I speak on the issue of feminine crimes, in my opinion, deeply conservative retraining of our legal culture with this legislative effort which is being made today by the Government. Minister, I think that, and I call upon you, we must also follow the public debate on this subject, but also in this Chamber to move forward on the step forward in accepting the amendment tabled on behalf of the Anti-Population Officer. And we will expect this move on your part even though public signals do not, unfortunately, go in this direction. We must be very clear. The international insistence and through now the resolution prepared in the European Parliament and within the country with the excellent circular of the Prosecutor Plyotas a week or ten days ago, the insistence there is on this issue is not because it has emerged now and that is why it does not have a party or a political sign, I am telling you quite rightly. But because of the pandemic, where there were also internationally increasing cases of domestic violence in our country, there was an opportunity to break the silence. This is the time when we are called upon to take advantage of and legislate on this issue. A silence of years broke in societies that quietly silenced, silenced at the expense of thousands of women. The phenomena now and the count made in our country and in other countries are a sub-chapter of thousands of women who have suffered domestic violence or who have been murdered and have concealed the cause of their murder with consent, in the bad sense, of the closed core of society. You know that, and we know it and our legal system have nevertheless been aware of it for decades, we have been hearing about crimes of honor or crimes of passion. In other words, we were hearing about hypocritical and pre-formative objections, which certainly did not reach the core of the act. It is clear that there are, and according to the crises, the historical structures that form within societies, permanent and horizontal patriarchal and structures, and arrocratic structures. There is, unfortunately, a perception, precisely because of these structures and systemic conservative standards that exist in certain societies or frameworks that, apart from our mother or sister, our wife, our partnership, our partner, perhaps, for a few, but there is the perception that she is an estate and in this sense can and may be the subject of any treatment, whatever behavior she reaches and the murder. And that comes in, I repeat, from social situations, through tolerance. This silence has broken internationally and in our country, we know that very well, and there must be a proper attitude on this. For our part and for other political forces in time we have said and raised these issues. It is important to introduce this terminology and introduce it into the range of hell and to tighten the sentences all the very complex issue that tends to appear in these felonies' crimes. As also to observe the provisions on crimes against the different, distinct, different from sexual preferences or anything else within our society. The trial for the murder of Zak Kostopoulos is now taking place years and is being conducted and the trial for the murder of Zak Kostopoulos is being conducted and we all know it. So for our part we are very clear. We tell you that you need to be harmonized by accepting the proposal in the European Parliament, in the debate that is taking place within the Greek society, so that we can put as much as we can, because that is not easy, a stop. If you do not accept it, I want to be right, you do it, and you do it poorly on a political and party matter. In other words, in a political conflict where many political forces in the democratic arch have raised the issue, women's organisations and international organisations, it has been put into society for political reasons, for reasons of party reasons, for reasons of ideology or anything else you do not accept. And we should not put that in this fortnight. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that the different eyes and policies come to the surface, where the Left or the Right, and more generally, these towns, would say, of the progressive and conservative forces that we see pandemic - we have been telling them since the first few months, let alone a year and a half later - that is, for the world and our society before and after the pandemic, this matter is dramatically erected. What are you reading about the heavy consequences of the majority of society as a whole, these situations that we have experienced, and are we experiencing, and can we experience for a long time still enough in society, and are we talking about the majority of society? Left and other democratic forces say strengthening the ESS, strengthening the public infrastructure, strengthening the support structures, guarantees for freedoms, rights, for the new generation of rights that arise through the challenges of these crises, strengthening the information, communication channels, extending the public sphere. These are the needs for a society that has suffered, suffered and suffer from, and will suffer from, the dramatic consequences of the pandemic itself, beyond the thousands of deaths. How do you respond for two and a half years? What reading are you doing? Your reading is that you are turning our judiciary into a punishment, making legislative arrangements selective for white collars, as mentioned yesterday by rapporteurs, becoming an impunity for direct awards and fine privileged arrangements while at the same time - and that is why I think it is a direct political issue of the fact that your legislative proposal - while at the same time in various areas, and we have lived for two and a half years, what are you doing? You are strengthening instead of all the things that we have said before, the repressive mechanisms and the legal arsenal in the name of disproportionateness, which is in itself stricter for wrong things - for some of them because the legal debate on other aspects has been held - so that social reactions can be dealt with in future. That's why you're doing it. Your only concern is not simply to respond to some newspaper headlines on the right, it is deeper, to have this arsenal and these mechanisms at the expense of other priorities in the country, to address the reactions from the world. And you do one more thing toward justice, and I wonder, Minister, why neither you are legal nor I am legal, but it is certain that you realise that you are also restricting justice - our worthy judges - to have the scope of their own behaviour and the distribution of responsibilities depending on the hearing process. Do you ever shrunk it, so what about it? Instead of the penal codes being the interim between bold reforms to prevent crime, to convict, to alternative penalties, and above all, to design social reintegration - I am taking the words of Mr Scandalidis, beforehand - instead of all these needs inclusively responding to the major issues that we are discussing, you are stricting, you are taking the intermediate and you are being suppressed. I give you one last example: whether you are convinced of the issue of criminalising political dialogue, as it appears in the debate and, of course, that it is not a protection of the social fabric by means of the famous diffusion of false news. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] And I come down from the Step, Mr President, with this, but keep the example. How many of you or other journalists would have been accused of felony acts and false news in relation to the Act of Friday? I'd like to say it from this Step. Remember that for months all of you in the arsenal of your prolongation, towards the then government, was this: anyone who has done any criminal act, and recently or before had been released, has rendered it to the law of Friday. And after one day, one week, one month, it was proved that the issues were coming to the surface - because they are not hidden - that in most cases it had nothing to do with the Law of Friday. And you did it in your knowledge. If this isn't false news in the political arsenal against the political opponent and it happened on the material of your ministry, what is it? That is why we must be very firm and not in the examples that the sympathetic and legal side of Mr Karagunis has, however, brought in his report on this issue. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u44	After the Stepma has been sanitaryly cleaned, we will, as I said, proceed with the two colleagues, Mrs Alexopoulou and Mrs Jack, and then I will give the floor to the Deputy Minister Tsakloglu, to present his amendment. Here, Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u45	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Solution, Mr. Velopoulos, has highlighted the obvious for some time now. That it is imperative to change the Criminal Code immediately, but not, as some people say, with penalties to criminals, but by removing the beneficial provisions, as well as any refreshment to the creation of the sentence. Whatever the sentence states, that is, the text of the law, that is. Let us, for example, take the rapists of young children, the pedophiles. It was our position and is that the stricter penalties should apply, without, of course, the unfounded refreshments, which unfortunately apply today. Why? Do you know what's actually happening? The rapists of innocent souls will soon come out, rather than serving the end of the sentence imposed upon them by justice and doing the same again with before and even worse. And I ask: is that reasonable, is it fair, is it human? Because that is what historical experience is, unfortunately, pointing out. That's why the Greek Solution insists: When we say life, we mean life. Some claim, of course, that our Criminal Code should not be a punishment, and that is because they say any penalties are not intended to exterminate the perpetrator, but to be remorseful. But we didn't say otherwise. It is barely possible to create a sentence that works for the rest, for example. And so, beyond the penitentiary of the perpetrator, there is the penalization of all others. This is because, seeing that the law really means what it says and does not release the killer in a few years, every citizen is understandable that he will avoid criminal behavior. Quite simply, it won't help anyone to become a criminal and to be punished hard, perhaps for the rest of their lives. This is the point of penalism and, moreover, all the students of the legal studies are aware of the central position that the fundamental purpose of the Criminal Law is to safeguard the social interest. I would now like to say a few words about Article 36 on the disseminating of false news replacing Article 191 of the Criminal Code. So we read that anyone who is public or on the Internet dispersed or dispersed or dispersed in any way false news that is able to cause concerns or fear among the citizens, or to undermine public confidence in the national economy, in the country's defence capacity or in public health, is punished by imprisonment, at least three months and financial punishment. With these, ladies and gentlemen, there is something inconceivable. What is an individual’s mind, changes in criminal behavior. In other words, let's go to what Orwell had called a 'police of thought' or, as many are afraid of today, a special control system for the mind, without the citizen being aware of it directly. We also remember Huxley's wonderful new world, which prescribes an incredible nightmare for humanity. In other words, there is a fear that similar points of the Criminal Code that criminalise the opinions could in future be changed to the laws of monsters, which would forbid the expression of man's will, something between Hitler and Stalin in modern edition. Is it ever possible for a democratic rule of law to be suspected, even of punishment for any attitude? Who will judge what is a dispersal of false news and whether a view expressed via the Internet harms the public interest? The Greek Solution, Kyriakos Velopoulos, reacted immediately to the abortion that goes to be born, because here we remember the "Right" of Kafka, where the defendant was confined, but did not know why exactly what he was accused of and until the end of his life suffered an irrational suffering, without finding his right. This seems to be the criminalisation of the thinking and opinion that is being attempted. And it's a pity that, on the occasion of the Coronus tragedy, we're going to squeeze the free speech. I should like to close, ladies and gentlemen, with some remarks on the protection of minors from the law. I've seen in many places that a lot of talk is going on, but nothing. And I don't say that rhetorically. Is it true to protect our children, for example, in relation to sexual practices? Why has Article 71 not been supplemented by the phrase in force in most European countries, namely that the offence of child rape is inalienable? Are these countries not civilised and democratic? Finally, we must put above all the protection of minors, these sensitive souls, not the Criminal Code trying to alleviate the position of the perpetrator. I would have liked you to have considered at least the International Convention on the Rights of the Child, which clearly defines and the interests of the minor, that simple intimidation - how much rape - must be punished hard, because the child's soul is somehow affected. But no, the draft law insists on protecting the rapist. For how else can this trend be interpreted by all the current and former rulers - who always prioritise the perpetrator, never the victim, even if our children are concerned? I believe that all of this will be understood because the Greek Solution says 'no' to the bill. Because in Greece at last, the Criminal Code must defend the victim and not the perpetrator, as our legal culture imposes, as common sense imposes, but also the interests of society, but something that is not the case with this draft law. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u46	Mrs. Jackie has the floor. I see now straight in front of me - I had not seen her welcome to the House - Mrs Antoniou. Welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u48	Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u49	Today we are called on to discuss the codes, but the great crime committed in Greek society - and this is also permanent and self-sufficient and before the eyes of the public - is not recorded in any code. Imagine, ladies and gentlemen, what would happen if the government were SYRIZA with this negative record of deaths and cases that our country records on a pan-European level. But this is where crime is covered. The agenda is changing from the media. Of the eighty deaths and nine thousand cases in the question of a Dutch journalist and the Prime Minister's falsifications within the Maximos Mansion. However, as Mr Mitsotakis, being the good boy of interlocutory, has this ability to move from the micropolitical closure of the eye to all kinds sprayed up to the limits of a new lockdown, which you understand, ladies and gentlemen, is at the door. But Mr Chiaras - I see that he left the Chamber - does not fall. It is not at all dreaded by the stack, Mr. Secretary of State for the coffins, because of your inability to manage the pandemic, but at the same time it is flicked by a desire to be smuggled with justice, by destroying the Constitution and by breaking - I would say - the record of political misery with the amendment that he has put on the secondment of judges and prosecutors to political offices. That's a world originality. After that, I think we can very well expect the next amendment that you will bring about the transfer of powers to investigate Mr Adonai's criminal case to himself, namely that he should be the same Minister and prosecutor of himself. Mr. Minister, Mr. Chiara, what kind of hamburgers are these? You who are supposed to defend the rule of law in which country of the European Union have you seen all this? Which country do you think you're living in in African bananas? Because you have five canalarchs and dozens of journalists to support you when elephants pass in front of the eyes of the Greek people, do you think you have the right to do what you want? And let me tell you something else. What country do you think will you deliver when in a year or so you leave power, a bankrupt, wretched, corrupt Colombia? This country you want to deliver? Minister, I invite you, because they have no business to do with the judges and prosecutors at the offices of the Ministers, to take the amendment back. So you do not protect the prestige of justice or the credibility of politics. The bill we are discussing, ladies and gentlemen, is a communication trick so that the New Democracy can hold the right-wing voters. It brings changes that turn criminal law into the 1950s. They are anachronistic arrangements that have no ground in today's theories or in the decisions of the European Court of Human Rights. He's bringing a counter-reform on the substance. In other words, it follows backward paths that turn the country back and lead it into dark greed. Ladies and gentlemen, the codes in general - and this is why they are legislated by a special procedure - are the body of law. They are legislation that must have duration and time, beyond and away from the sirens of topicality and public satisfaction here and now. And you, by bringing the third amendment in a row today, are deceiving their local power, at the same time creating legal uncertainty. Criminal law, anti-criminal and penitentiary policy must give rise to security for citizens and prevent aspiring criminals. This is not the case at all with the constant changes. The section of the bill on the articles of the Criminal Code is problematic. Partial interventions are being made in the name of the supposedly security of citizens, thereby breaking down the coherence of the Criminal Code and undermining the rationalisation and modernisation of the system of sanctions provided for by it. You are making a horizontal tightening of penalties and how to build them, while focusing on policy on crime prevention, on the one hand, and on dealing with small and medium-sized crime, the main factor of insecurity in the daily lives of citizens. At the same time, Minister, we have not seen you reintroducing the provision of Article 290 of the Criminal Code concerning the malicious infidelity of bankers who have it - if you like - denounce all judges by judicial decision and are also expected to give a ruling on this matter. The provisions governing the suspension and extension of penalties to certain categories of crimes such as those introduced by them convert valuable penitentiary institutions, such as the dismissal of a term, into instruments of punishment, neutralising the special prevention and social reintegration of sentenced persons as the primary purpose of establishing penalties. Some of the proposed regulations in the bill serve political and communication objectives far less limited than the much-discussed topicality cases or the recent natural disasters. Finally, the bill expresses an unjustified distrust towards the judges themselves, choosing the excessive restriction of self-evidence in a modern liberal Criminal Code, capable of individualising the sentence. The provision of lifelong and temporary imprisonment or imprisonment and financial penalty shall be abolished and the rest of the sentence shall not be made at home for certain categories of crimes. The legislator is thus seizing powers which in a modern democratic and liberal state do not belong to him. I would now like to make a special reference to Article 36. The provision as you bring it now occupyes false news capable of raising concerns among citizens in general, without any need to cause fear to an indefinite number of persons who are forced to carry out unplanned acts or to annihilate them. The provision is inconsistent with the freedom of information, public information and the free exercise of opposition criticism. In addition, a new paragraph is added which, by the same penalty, is punishable and the actual owner or issuer of the instrument by which the acts described in that Article have been carried out. In a modern democracy freedom of speech is guaranteed and constitutionally guaranteed. Its limitation and much more criminalisation is only exceptionally allowed under very strict conditions. The addition of the wording on the news that, apart from concern and fear, it may impair public confidence in the national economy in the country's defence capacity and in public health, automatically opens the door to attempted censorship. Ladies and gentlemen, I will close my speech with a reference to the amendment tabled by SYRIZA on the introduction of crime in Greek criminal law with sexual characteristics, of feminine crime as it is called. The incidents of racial violence in Greece have recently received epidemic dimensions and internationally according to data have been characterised as a humanitarian crisis. Female homicide does not match the homicide of Article 299 of the Criminal Code, as it is used to be called since it constitutes something more than that. In particular, in the case of gypsy there are two extremes: extreme criminal behaviour with the violent removal of a person's life and the extreme death form of that violence called racial, sexist violence, that is, the fact of the murder of women because of their gender, that is because they are women. The phenomenon has also received explosive proportions in our country. We already have thirteen feminisms this year, and so is it in almost all the countries of Europe, and in particular in countries with a richer legal and cultural tradition of gender equality, such as Sweden, a model country for the legal safeguarding of gender equality in all the manifestations of politics, social and economic life.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u50	It's over, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u51	The UN in its 2017 survey reports that eighty-seven thousand feminine murders occurred, that is, 100 thirty-seven women every day and 58% of these involved murders committed by their partner, husband or family member. However, in addition to the legislation which is necessary, as you can see, it is important to deal with the prevention of racial violence, education through educational programmes aimed at girls and boys, the education of parents in the proper education of children and the education of adults, so that we can change deeply inspired social perceptions and racial stereotypes according to which women are inferior to male authority and may be punished, controlled, confiscated and convicted through racial violence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u52	Mrs. Jackrey, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u53	Wait a minute, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u54	Exceptionally, we gave you the floor and you've violated the time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u55	Wait a minute, Mr. President. It's a shame. I urge you, ladies and gentlemen, to vote in favour of the SYRIZA amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u56	Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor. From your position for three minutes. Then Mrs Michailidou will speak because she is relevant.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I propose the amendment of the Ministry of Labour. It's seven articles. One will be presented by Mrs Michaelidou, who is in her responsibilities. The first article of the proposed amendment establishes the 'First Official' programme aimed at strengthening employment through the creation of subsidised jobs for young people between the ages of eighteen and twenty-nine who have no previous experience. It is well known that for several years now our country and Spain have had the unhelpful title of the highest youth unemployment in the European Union. Various studies show that one of the things that business seeks is pre-service. That is what young people do not have, and that is why we are tabling this bill. Within the programme starting the new year, each intake without work experience with a full-time contract is subsidised by the State budget for six months with the total amount of EUR thousand for two hundred. EUR 100 per month for the new entrant and 100 for their operation. The first item relates to parttime jobs as the subsidy is reduced by half. If the contract has a duration of less than six months, the new job shall be subsidized in proportion to the time of employment and the type of contract. Finally, the programme is accompanied by a clause on the maintenance of jobs. The second article extends the programme of the hundreds of thousands of subsidised jobs. In fact, this subsidy is done on particularly favourable terms introduced in 2020. It is a programme that already has too much demand. By the beginning of October, ninety-three thousand workers had already benefited from this programme and the trend in applications is upward. Obviously this is included in the support measures needed for the labour market. I said earlier that the third article will be supported by Mrs Michalidou. The fourth article provides that insurance contributions may, after the expiry of their period of payment, be subject to a special partial payment arrangement of up to seventy two instalments. The aim is to tackle more fully the inability to pay debts due to the coronary pandemic. The provision relates to debts created during the pandemic period, i.e. from February 2020 to June 2021. This measure was deemed necessary to facilitate the undertakings which have made corresponding requests in the EFCA CRL. The fifth article gives the possibility of extending the cleaning contracts concluded by the ECA in order to meet the relevant needs for the period from the expiry of the contracts until the completion of the competitive procedures, as there is an urgent need for uninterrupted provision of those services and for compliance with the hygiene and safety measures in the e-ECA buildings. The sixth Article lays down exceptional and urgent measures to protect the jobs of workers in enterprises affected by the earthquake of 27 September in the Region of Crete, irrespective of industry and business. In particular, undertakings shall be allowed to do so if they have proved to have been materially damaged to suspend the employment contracts of a Party or of all workers up to three months. In this period companies are obliged not to reduce their staff, in accordance with similar regulations that we have made in other similar cases of natural disasters. Employers who make use of the regulation after the end of the arrangement are obliged to maintain workers for another period as long as the legislation was in force. Finally, workers receive the allowance of EUR 534 per month and to cover their insurance contributions at the level of their nominal salary. Finally, in the seventh article, care is taken to make it easier for deaf and hard people to access the information content of inclusive broadcasting programmes taking into account the needs of particular social groups. In order to achieve this objective, the production and provision of digital content services ensures e-accessibility to disabled people and obviously this measure promotes the principles of vertical equality and social justice. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u58	Mrs. Michaelidou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will present Rule 3 of the amendment that we presented together with the Deputy Minister, which concerns the doubling of the minimum guaranteed income for the December dose. The December dose will be paid properly as we have, at the end of the month, but the aid on 15 December. What are we doing? We aim at alleviating and strengthening the most vulnerable. It is a measure announced by the Prime Minister from the Thessaloniki International Exhibition. It is a measure that we followed last year and this year, extremely targeted to reduce the extreme poverty and social exclusion of two hundred and seventy thousand households and more than five hundred thousand of our fellow citizens. So what do we do with it? We are reducing extreme poverty, reducing social exclusion, and so we are helping all those who have been tested at both health, economic and social levels. We believe in the minimum guaranteed income as a measure which we ourselves introduced in 2014 but which we have also strengthened. Everyone remembers in the last constitutional review, almost two years ago, on 25 November that we established it as a constitutionally guaranteed right for the citizen in our country and enlargement, which you initially voted here in Parliament, the pool of beneficiaries of the minimum guaranteed income for the most vulnerable. Who were they? The homeless and the abused women who live in structures. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u60	From what I have said, Mr Zachariadis and Mrs Antoniou have agreed that Mr Kegeroglou should lead for reasonable reasons. Let's not mention them. Does Mrs Alexopoulou agree with Mr Kegeroglu? Here you go, Mr. Kegeroglu. You have the floor. After Mr Kegeroglou, Mrs Alexopoulou will be speaking and then Mr Georgiodas will speak about his amendment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u61	Thank you very much, Mr President. I thank both colleagues and my colleague. To say many years because of the celebration of the patron saint of Heraklion, Saint Minas. To wish things would go better with the pandemic. It's not just wishing. They need other things. I'll see you another time. In relation to the bill we are discussing, I would like to remind you that in 2009, shortly before the elections, it may have been the last bill, the Criminal Code has been quickly amended on the basis of a treatment that has been done for a long time. That was a great contradiction. In other words, while experts have been discussing for many years, the government has then chosen to decide whether or not the House should be adopted in a time of dt without political consultation. There was scientific consultation, but not politics. That is why we did not participate in the final procedure at that time. The result was, of course, the result of some of the provisions giving rise to negative effects. The heterogeneity of purposes proved in practice. There may have been good intentions for some amendments, but unfortunately the results showed other things. There is a lot of discussion today about the principle of placement, when it is known that the substance is the placement in each article separately. The courts and all the institutions of justice shall decide on the basis of the provisions adopted and not the most political position in principle. This must be understood because it is becoming spices and propaganda, obviously, to serve certain purposes. We therefore come to see that, in principle, we said 'the present' for certain reasons. First of all, technically, the principle of the bill is not a uniform one. So what principle should we vote on? Secondly, the government is politically going through the message that only stricter penalties can result in good results. It's not true. It needed a reform and upgrading of the penitentiary system based on the principle that penitentiary in modern states is the means, of course, that includes both punishment and then social reintegration, instead of punishment and marginalisation. These are things that the civilised countries, Western European culture, the European culture for which you are being cut off, have solved. Where is the European institutional legal acquis? So here we are talking specifically about our positions which are clear. I want to tell you this because I did the arithmetic. Of the hundred seventy - three articles we voted for fifty - eight. And we say that we are, for example, voting on the tightening up of penalties for all sexual offences, such as the rape of minors, incest, group rape and all the actions of domestic violence. We are in favour of tightening up crimes against workers at work, but also sexual harassment at work. We are in favour of increasing the release limit from 2/5 to 3/5 of the sentence. We are even voting for the provision, although it is ambiguous, concerning the possession of arson mechanisms and which this ambiguity may disrupt legal certainty. We do not, however, vote for the indictment of malicious acts on the cases of posting fast news in a series of persons such as the author, the director and the publisher. If there was the old technology of the lithograph, you'd go with the lithographer in it. It can't be done. You must distinguish between things and anyone who is inclined to be the one who has actually acted and not all of them. With regard to the decongestion of prisons, I would like to say that, unfortunately, there is a distorting view that we have no space and therefore we are horizontally reducing penalties to all and going out to get the next ones in place. It's not like that. We need to reform with quality characteristics, see alternative ways of creating penalties, and in particular for low decency offences, see how we strengthen the part of rural prisons, see public work. Why do you refuse to bring upgrades and shield public works so that there is a real decongestion of low-income crimes through it? In other words, to work even in the cleanliness of the municipalities, to work in services for the benefit of the community as a whole. These are things they do in the West. And I say again and again about the West because I want to remind you of "we belonged to the West". So they've been doing it in the West for many years. And you refuse to talk about it. Greece belongs to these countries, as I said before, with the penitentiary and social reintegration systems and not the punishment systems and marginalisation. Unfortunately from your first choice, as soon as you became government, it seemed what you want to bring by transferring anti-crime policy back to the Ministry of Civil Protection. Of course they didn't get the codes. This shows that you want more police perception and less justice and justice. On the amendment by the Ministry of Defence to say that we support this amendment. But I would remind Minister Nikos Panayotopoulos that it is the tenth amendment to this particular issue. We say 'why again a small extension and not a comprehensive plan until the completion of the torpedoes'. Mercy. Can't the Greek state make a whole plan? This also shows, of course, the problem with the lack of a plan to upgrade the shipyards of Scaramaga and Elefsina and their exploitation. We're voting for it. I now come to the amendment by the Ministry of Labour, which is positive in the sense that it opens up a path to job creation and to the provision that is mentioned - and I shall conclude, Mr President - on earthquakes, where my area is concerned. Unfortunately, there are too many problems of bureaucracy and procedures are entangled. The possibility of suspending work is positive, but the three months have already been exhausted. It has to be for six months. And that is why I would ask Mr Tsakloglu, if he is watching us, that the three months should be made at least five to six, because he will have to make changes after a while. Also, to see the compensation for the survival of professionals. Professionals who will need their stores six months to build do not have money. I shall therefore conclude, Mr President, with a reference to the deaf. The amendment also includes rules on deafness and which are not positive, it is negative, because the seven minutes are, you say, one at noon until nine o'clock. They'll probably enter low-screening areas. It can't be done. We tabled an amendment - see if you will accept it - and we say instead of seven minutes that it will be fourteen minutes between five in the afternoon and eleven in the evening. ERT can carry out what the Deaf Federation has asked for, that is, a sixty-minute central news bulletin at sign language late at night, but others that have to do with informing them. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u62	Thank you. Mrs Alexopoulou and then Mr Georgantas have the floor for three minutes and we continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u63	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, once again in this Chamber of the Greek Parliament, the Qualifying Opposition attempts to create a debate on self-evidentity and is as usual trying to achieve this by criticising it in terms of populism, distortion and a curious oversimplification. The first axis of criticism is populism, i.e. vacancies and aerials. They are trying to be sympathetic by invoking the justice of tolerance and decency as if the fair punishment of crimes by independent justice were to be reversed by these principles. "You are only interested in the security of citizens and the punishment of criminals", that's what we were accused of before the competent committee. Yes, you did not hear wrong, the Qualified Opposition considers the interest in security and justice to be a cause of negligence. We are accuseed that we have swept through strictness, while, in their view, the crimes that they themselves characterize as of average gravity in the defects are due to be indifferent. So let us be vigilant and those who deviate from minors between 14 and 15 years of age, i.e. the perpetrators of serious crimes, which, according to the amended provisions, are punishable to the extent of a delinquency to which tolerance according to the SYRIZA is required. Let us not increase the penalty for forest arsonists and continue to allow rapists to leave prison after three years. Unacceptable things for us! The second axis is based on the distortion of reality. They point out that it is not right for the Criminal Code to change shortly after its vote and suggest that we wait several years to observe the efficiency of the changes that they have made and correct the obvious errors that they have made. However, they fail to point out the conditions for the adoption of the provisions which are amended two days before the elections in an empty Chamber and for the absence of the Opposition without any real dialogue. They remind me of the patron sanctuary that he was asking to feel sorry for him because he was an orphan. They also fail to take into account the fact that criminals do not expect the results of the various committees. So let them ask the victims of the peculiar impunity they have imposed or at least those who are still in life. Finally, the third axis consists of over-simplification. We are told that we are legislating on the basis of news. But society is evolving and, unfortunately, crime is evolving with it. Therefore, the adaptation of the legislation to the actual data cannot be analogous. Otherwise, we should ignore the new forms and methods of crime and stick to the Criminal Code which provided and punished the duel. We should remain reluctant toward the charlatans who use modern media of communication narrate public health. Therefore, the unfairness of the criticism that is being made so obligated is the proposed arrangements. I am not a legal person, and I therefore unreservedly plead that I should like to place myself on the private regulation which, as the Minister has assured us, has been thoroughly prepared by experts. I am not resisting, however, the temptation to say that I also put a small stone in the attempt to rationalise our Criminal Law on the occasion, Mr Minister, remember, the tragic accident that occurred in Haiti in August 2019, resulting in the drift and death of infants and his grandmother from a drunk vehicle, but I, too, regretted the tragic loss of my first cousin Nikolaos Karapanos, who was the senior year of the Medical School of the University of Patras, who also lost his life because someone thought it was good to drive with an enormous amount of alcohol I asked in 2015 by asking for improvements to Article 290a. I am pleased and particularly pleased to note that this provision is now perfected and eliminates any margin of immunity that costs lives. There is a definitive end to impunity, trying to put an end to these funerals of innocent victims with a perpetrator already released and ready to kill again. Ladies and gentlemen, as a mother of a four-year-old daughter, I want to speak through my heart. When I let my little daughter out of her hand take her first steps in society, I don't want to be shivered by fear of crimes that the human mind of the soul and body doesn't fit. When a woman is in need, when a wife denounces, when a partner is abused by the state and justice must stand up. Finally, in impunity, life in the event of rape against a minor, felony the offense of sexual acts, their seduction, and even when they as adults are going to fall well on their feet. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the bill attempts in every way to harness the immunity of the perpetrators of the Greek Me Too. Closed doors will be opened and tortured protagonists will be grateful to the Members who voted today for this piece of legislation. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. I will now give the floor to Mr Georganta and then we have three colleagues with a live presence, Mr Zachariadis, Mrs Antoniou, Mr Psychogios and another three, four Webex. Here, Mr Georgioda, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this amendment number 1129 and a special number 94, there are some interventions which are deemed necessary on the part of both our Ministry and the other relevant ministries in order to deal better and more effectively with the whole question of pandemic. I shall mention these interventions. There was a need to create a register of foreign vaccinated persons. It is precisely because it is understandable to everyone that too many natural persons in the country have been vaccinated abroad, but because they may have been vaccinated outside the European Union at the moment, they are unable and facilitated by the possession of the European certificate, but at the same time they are not able to carry out the so-called third commemorative dose. A register should therefore be created which distinguishes between those who have been vaccinated in countries of the European Union or in the eighteen countries which have vaccination programmes that are compatible with the programme that is evolving in the European Union has essentially been combined with it and, at the same time, a distinction should be made with those who have been vaccinated with vaccines that are acceptable in our country to a third country. This will enable these people, on a request that they will make through the gov.gr or the JEPs in order to be able to join this register, to then have the privileges they have and the vaccinated in the country, namely those who participated in the vaccination programme ours, but at the same time also to be able to make the third booster dose. The same procedure is for those who have been ill abroad and have been confirmed to be ill by foreign institutions. Of course, there will be joint ministerial decisions then, which will clarify the terms and conditions under which, when it cannot be digitally certified, one of these documents is to have security differences which, through a process which will necessarily take place in these third countries by a special committee, can then be entered in the register. There are two, essentially, categories of people who have a European certificate or who are in one of the eighteen countries who are working with the same system at the moment with the application that we and the others have from third countries. It is absolutely necessary to do this because both Greeks and foreign citizens in the country will be able to serve, but at the same time they will also be able to do the commemorative dose. At the same time, we are creating a service which, as long as the pandemic lasts, can be informed of the prevention of the coronary. We know very well that it is necessary for this to happen either as a mere briefing or as a reminder. It will only be done on natural persons who are registered in intact prescribing and on any natural person who is registered in intact prescribing when deemed necessary by the Ministry of Health. This information will not be subject to any further processing. It will be a simple briefing, a simple information, a mere reminder to those who have been enrolled in in intangible prescribing. Furthermore, another point which I think is worth mentioning from the amendment is the possibility of giving the Information Society an additional grant, an additional grant, because it is the one that manages the money that corresponds to those young people who are involved in the Freedom Pass. We are pleased to say that they have already made use of the Freedom Pass four hundred and fifty thousand Greeks eighteen to twenty-four years and other natural persons involved in this process. And, of course, the amount initially allocated needs to be increased, precisely because we see that there is an interest and a mobility in this issue of vaccination. These are essentially the interventions provided for in this amendment. We think that everyone is moving in the right direction and I ask your House to vote in favour.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u66	Mr Zachariadis Konstantinos, a colleague from SYRIZA, has the floor. Here, Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u67	Mr President, thank you. Here we have a piece of legislation that distinguishes progressively from conservative policies, conservative from liberalism. Mr President, what you bring is a European framework? Is it liberalism in legal culture? Are these progressive policies, like Mr. Mitsotakis does? Can you go to Western Europe, to countries that have right-wing governments and say 'a modern framework'? What you bring is Balkans. What you bring is Eastern Europe. Why? Because that's what you are, an over-preservative, anachronistic right. And it is for pity that those who are talking about progress in the New Democracy by Mr Mitsotakis and who are silent in such legislation, the so-called 'liberals', the so-called 'centres'. I heard the rapporteur of the Change Movement. I agree with too much. I also heard the rapporteur from Mera25. Also, I agree. Mr. Chiara, Mr. Kotsira, you're on your own. Opposition, progressive opposition and parliament and society rejects your counter-reformation. Conservation and authoritarianity that goes through this bill will be rejected. But it is not for everyone. The 'white collars', the bankers, of course, fall softly. The changes you bring will create problems and deadlocks in criminal justice and the penitentiary system. Many of the settings serve only communication objectives. I'm not a legal biologist, I'm a biologist, but this is where criminal populism, the idea of telepaths being tried. The government is linking the treatment of crime to the strictness of sentences, ignoring that, in all legally advanced Europe, the burden is being prevented. The codes are backbone of law and the country's legal world based on science, the idea of social progress can and must resist. The code you bring us goes back to Greece in 1950! But you also have an amendment which is a little curious and I do not hear it in the public debate. Acting judges - he says - can be seconded to the vice-president. Isn't that a clear interference in the separation of powers? The Union of Judges and Prosecutors - which I know is not a SYRIZA, Mr Karaguni - describes it as a novel and incomprehensible one and says that it will inform the International Union of Judges. Do you remember what you were saying? You said: "The New Democracy will not tolerate games with justice, its independence is not negotiated, it is demanded by the Constitution and no one has the right to use or interfere in its operation." Mr. Mitsotakis was saying this when you were in the opposition. The next issue is the question of 'Me Too', the issue of feminine murders. You have it and you say it - those who say it - just media. Where are the institutions? Where's the law? We did if we could convince you in your parliamentary group, predicted, top ministers, i.e. recognizable posters that there is the term gypsy. I don't want to talk about the Internet trolls they take and line up through the Maximos Mansion or through the New Democracy headquarters. That is the amendment, and that is the decisions! Adopt it! Why don't you do that? In addition, with regard to this amendment, Mr Chiara, with the protected witnesses you withdrew, what is it that you withdrew? To be clear, what are you thinking? Who's advising you? Who are you suggesting? What does that show? It shows that you are legislating with different interventions rather than legal suggestions. What are you going to do with the special court? Are you going to make the special court show for communication consumption? Institutions are serious cases to play in this way. I would like to take advantage of today's speech so that I can respond from a step of the House to the previous statements by Mr Vorides, the Minister of the Interior. We've got a pandemic in excitement, out of control. We live again a "black" November, the last mile became a marathon. The other day, based on the news, he left seventy-four years old outside. At Volos Hospital there is no ITH for a 30-year-old distributor with heavy cranial brain injuries in a car accident. No one in this country believes - beyond the Prime Minister - that the pandemic, as he said in his recent interview, has escaped. It says that opposition only criticizes and has no proposals. He says that we are healthy, socially and nationally saboteurs, that we are transctors of human suffering. On Thursday, therefore, on behalf of the SYRIZA Interior Section, I tabled a specific proposal: 'Reinstate teleworking in the public sector for vaccinated, invasive, vulnerable groups!'. Mr. Vorides says we're bishops, and we don't know what's going on with us. Okay, we don't know what's going on with us, 'APPLE' doesn't know what's going on with her? 'GOOGLE' doesn't know what's going on with her? Facebook doesn't know what's going on with her? Does Voridis only know what's going on? What are the other countries doing? Why did we legislate on teleworking? Let one explain from the dozens of posters Mr Vorides has that vaccination, social dismissal, masks and disinfectants are the combination of the treatment of the pandemic. In the public transport that these people go to work with. Unfortunately, the vaccinated are also stuck. So we're not philosophers, it's the way the New Democracy is dealing, because it's the pandemic, because we're making suggestions and you're telling you that we don't do you, because when we insist and hear our voice, you don't talk, you don't answer, you don't shut up and you choose polarization, splitting, mud and sabotage. You're talking about a national sabotage, where the current Prime Minister, as Chief of Police Vice-Population, said from this Step that we exchanged the Macedonian pension scheme? Why didn't Mrs. Merkel say so yesterday? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Can I have a minute more, Mr. President? Are you talking about social sabotage, which accurately destroys middle-class, entrepreneurship and the employees, and you follow passively? Are you talking about transceivers of human pain? Mr. Mitsotakis, you must look in the mirror. You must be seen in the face of your idol, your old, today's and tomorrow's self.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u68	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u69	Every day that passes more pressurized and more authoritarian, more arrogant and inferior to circumstances, splitting and polarizing, out of place and time! Thank you, Mr President, and your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u70	Good. The floor will now be taken by Mrs Tonia Antoniou, Member of the Change Movement. Here, Mrs. Antoniou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President, for the welcome. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin my first speech during my new term as a Member of Parliament with the commitment to honour the political legacy of President Fofi Gennimata and, of course, the confidence shown by the citizens of South Athens with their vote. Because parliamentary action should focus on people and their needs, public and social interests and the interests of our country. These are the criteria of our approach as a Change Movement and in the case of the bill we are debating today. I would therefore like to begin by pointing out that for us it is not the stricter regulation of the provisions of the Criminal Law promoted by the Government. It is, of course, clear that in the cases of crimes such as rape, crimes against sexual freedom in general, crimes related to domestic violence, crimes against workers and a number of other offences we agree with the stricterisation of penalties and we shall vote for it. In other words, we agree with the tightening up of penalties for acts of increased moral and criminal deception. However, we have stressed that legislation in the field of Criminal Law needs particular attention, caution, but also a sense of formal and substantive weight of two fundamental codes, namely the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Gentlemen of the government, we too are a party to the sense of insecurity experienced by our fellow citizens. In particular, in areas where the highest levels of infrastructurality are present, the insecurity that citizens feel degrades their quality of life. But we don't hide behind our fingers like the government. It is scientifically substantiated that what works deterrently is the fear of control and not the gravity of the sentence. So, yes, we must be tough and decisive as a society in dealing with crime, but not only through the penalties provided for. We need serious and effective police and anti-crime mechanisms, professionally organised. The emphasis must always be on prevention, social cohesion and education. We need a penitentiary system that can effectively perform its role and not be a place for new crimes, postgraduate studies in the violation and development of organised crime. For us, not all the provisions contained in this draft law are intentional and sufficient. Because the general strictness of penalties is not intended to be the objective of a real deterrent, but to offer a'symmetrical sheet' to the Government. Ladies and gentlemen, we do not see any serious documentation of the choices made in the bill. It is true that during the period of pandemic restrictive measures some forms of crime have declined, but others have risen. For example, rape. Two hundred and forty-two rapes were recorded in 2020 showing an increase of 45% compared to 2019, of course according to police data. That is why we are telling you yes to stricterisation. On the other hand, we welcome SYRIZA's amendment on feminine murder and all the homicides that have evidence of racial violence, particularly against women. Minister, we would like to ask you to study this amendment carefully, make adjustments that you judge and discuss and vote on. However, Minister, you did not go forward with quantitative and qualitative documentation to convince us of all levels of crime, much less when the country's legal world in its overwhelming majority expressed very serious reservations and spoke of political and communication objectives of the bill. In other words, the measures you are proposing are rough and fragmented, they have been guided by the timeliness and anger of public opinion, you want to sell law and order to society, you do not care about evaluating the law in force in terms of its content and its applicability. But we still have an objection together with the country's legal world. The provision in Article 36 of the draft law on the amendment of Article 191 of the Criminal Code on the dispersion of false news is unacceptable and in practice legalises censorship. We are all aware of the damage that all these unscientific and conspiracy articles have done in trying to deal with the pandemic, but the answer to lies is education and information, not repression, because this leads to constitutionally guaranteed freedom of speech in very dangerous circumstances. You, Minister, refuse to strategically address the problem of crime and the lack of security. Refuse to be severely pregnant in the shortcomings of a diseased penitentiary, sacrifice freedom of speech and the principle of proportionality to serve your communication purposes. Of course, you have used us to such approaches, not only in justice but at almost all levels of politics. Gentlemen of the government, in these aspects of your policy you will not find any accomplices to our party. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, too. Mr. Psychogios has the floor. It was added because while it was written for teleconferencing, it is present and will speak. Mr Leonardis will also precede, and then we will go to the speakers with a teleconferencing conference.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, before I begin with the substance of the provisions of the bill, I will say the framework within which it will be called upon to implement. As far as the co-operatives of justice are concerned, I shall start by the lawyers, who have suffered a smuggling and a smuggling in the past period by the government, both at the level of support within the pandemic and at the level of their other demands, with their obligations to run. We must not forget that. In addition, the courts have returned less to their posts because they have not been strengthened to staff, some have retired. And so we have a problem as well in the buildings which are downgraded, as well as in the prisons where the number has been multiplied. There is overcongestion, without mass vaccination, without mass epidemiological surveillance as required, with disproportionate cutbacks in visitors and others, but also with difficult conditions in relation to both prisoners and penitentiaries. So this is the framework and I immediately start my placement. He referred to many of the contributions made by the SYRIZA government over the past few years to this part. So what we should point out is that by 2019 many bills upgraded the country to the level of human rights and brought it to the point of congratulations from international organisations, from the Council of Europe and others. When we went, we were proud of it. Also, Law 4619/2019 was a law which replaced a non-cohesional text to the substance and a uniform instrumentation with a Code of Criminal Procedure that responded to modern reality, a law that leaves no room for derogations from the principle of fair trial. And indeed, from a law-making and multi-collective, with important personalities of legal science making it up. So take care and continue with this bill that you do not allow these provisions to be implemented in practice, despite the fact that you leave the essence of the rest of the code intact, showing that in this part of the election you also invested in micropolitical and populism. And, of course, it is the third time that you are going to make amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure in less than two and a half years, without having - I repeat - made it possible to apply and test the provisions and, indeed, with such a handfulness that these current provisions would change some of the provisions that you had made in the previous period. Having my mind, of course, and recent legislation - not your own, type of rural development - with sixteen ministerial decisions regulating the law, you understand how excellence is in your legislation. The strong disagreements, therefore, and also the comments made in the amendments that you have brought have been sufficiently developed by our rapporteur, Mr Lappa, and by other speakers, who have spoken mainly as the lawyers of the act and as lawyers, well aware of the criminal law and forensics, have even greater reference to the social, political, cultural and class links of a society. Criminal law must be an anthropocentric, it must combine protection and punishment for decency acts with the balance of rights, the prevention of the causes of the acts, the principle that the defendant is deprived only of his freedom and nothing else, and with the main aim of reintegration. These are, that is, taught by professors of all opinions and colours, such as Bekas, the immemorial Karydis and Sarelis, Kostaras, Parascopopoulos and others. So the Penal Codes must be inspired by humanism and liberal thinking. Instead, you are bringing changes that are spread through a spirit of strictness, preservation and regression, as was heard almost all of the counterpopulation. The penalty imposed by criminal law must be designed primarily to protect the public interest. It cannot be an end in itself, and it can also be a forum for communication and other reasons. We, as well as the executive and the criminal courts, of course, need to limit irrationality, arbitraryness and improvisation to the full in order to ensure the validity of criminal rules. Instead, you come and despise the work of different members of the legislators and invest in the doctrine of law and order through this bill. It is a doctrine that has exactly the opposite effect, with serious crime to have multiplyed, with incidents of police violence and arbitrariness in peaceful demonstrations, with hate rhetoric and stereotypes even returned to the lips of parliamentarians and government ministers, by poisoning society and making thousands of people more vulnerable, with the security of the citizens to whom you are shifting all the responsibilities from pandemic to the rest of their choices, without doing anything about the social state that has turned into an endless insecurity. You also bring provisions that persecute and cultivate fear for those who participate in peaceful popular mobilisation. At the same time, for two years you have left the country without any penalty in any way alternative to incarceration. We have said so many times, Minister, and we and international organisations, both for public work and for others, and must come back immediately, because it is defamation for the country. You must also answer why the country is still constantly accountable to the judgments of the European Court of Justice and now and now. But we expect this legal aid to come - and there is a common consensus to vote on it - for violations of the rights of detainees. Why don't you bring it? You are also reinstated the strictness of penalties by putting asphyxiative restrictions on the beneficial and penal measure of the current condition of dismissal and restoring the incomprehensible punishment of the inappropriate attempt. Where exactly did you see that by tightening sentences alone, in a country that according to the Council of Europe has one of the highest penalties in the world, you will reduce crime? Where does that come from? As for feminism, there is our amendment that has been tabled and I hope you will accept it, but it is obviously not enough to tighten it up. That's why we bring her. Because he wants the frame too, but he wants something else. It wants infrastructure, aid, support for the infrastructure provided by the Istanbul Convention and much more. The bill also expresses an unjustified distrust with the judges, choosing the excessive restriction of self-evidence to a modern liberal criminal law of its own personality. It must therefore be governed by the principle of proportionality, it must take into account the international best practices of European and other countries - and not obviously of the Visegrad countries, with which you have been identified almost all over the last few years - and the protection of fundamental rights must be secure. In conclusion, Mr President, because I have heard some people say that 'one of the same SYRIZA and New Democracy in the Criminal Codes and Criminal Law and Prisons', I should like to say that in both the authorities and the legislature and in practice we are diverse. Let me just remind you of the abolition of disgusting provisions that criminalised debts in insurance funds and tax, with images of people being brought to police stations for 800 euros, and we were going to get them out, modernise and improve the situation in prisons, second chance schools, reintegration programs and others, but also a very important part, the reduction of social inequality, which for you is legality, but for us it is a pillar of the fight against crime. In simple terms, we are two worlds and together with a large part of the Greek society that has matured and conquered for years the basic principles of Criminal and Constitutional Law, we will proceed as a next government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u74	Let the last of these colleagues come, Mr. Lionaridis Theophilos, MP of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u75	Ladies and gentlemen, the bill before us today is divided into three thematic sections: first the changes to the Criminal Code, second the amendments to the Code of Criminal Procedure and third the other provisions of the Ministry of Justice. The general feeling of someone reading the bill is that it is inspired by a tendency to tighten up the penalty framework, in order to heal weaknesses in dealing with serious crimes. However, there is the general perception that penalties imposed by justice in accordance with existing legislation, particularly for criminal offences, are penalties that do not convince the public of a sense of law. In other words, there is no proportionality between the act and the size of the penalty. We all remember how much public opinion has been concerned with the latest and previous incidents of unfortunate mothers and women who have lost their lives in a horrendous way and have shaped the idea that we should change the legislation as well. By passing now on to the substance of the bill, it would be possible to say that as far as the Criminal Code is concerned, failures of the Code adopted by the SYRIZA are being rectified, increased to major criminal offences degraded by the previous government, the provisions of the Criminal Code are being updated and brought into line with European conventions on the protection of minors and adult victims of criminal activity. Criminal offences such as homicide, rape against minors, group rape and last treason are also confirmed, which will only be punished for life imprisonment. The conditions for release with those condemned for cruel crimes such as terrorist acts, trafficking in human beings and others such as robbery, drugs law, are still being confirmed so that they can be released by serving 4/5 of the sentence from the 3/5 that has been in place so far. More thoroughly and with regard to crimes of major criminal decency, i.e. criminal offences, life imprisonment for the offences of recent betrayal, manslaughter, group rape, rape against minors, fatal rape and fatal robbery is now foreseen. The above offences with the current criminal code are punishable in divorce by either life or temporary imprisonment of at least 10 years of age. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMBROYLIS]] Also, the device for serious physical damage covers all forms of fault, negligence, possible delusion and pursuit, by reintroducing and tightening the old layout. In addition, disability and permanent deformation are added to the concept of serious physical harm. It is now a burdensome event to do physical harm to a staff member in the performance of his work. For environmental and climate-related crimes the offence of arson, like the arson of forests and all commonly dangerous crimes, is transformed from crimes resulting from abstract risks. In other words, in order to punish the act, there is no need for the damage to be done but it is sufficient to be at risk. Furthermore, the death of a man is sufficient to impose a penalty on an equine animal, without a large number of persons being required as currently in force. The offence of forest arson is now standardised only as a felony and in its basic form, with a planned sentence of detention of up to eight years and a penalty. With regard to crimes against personal freedom, sexual freedom and the economic exploitation of sexual life, there is provision for the self-prosecuting persecution of sexual dignity in the workplace. The crime of trafficking in human beings is a matter of strict penalties. If death comes from the act, a life sentence shall be imposed. Especially for crimes against minors, with the current provision currently in force, the start of limitations on offences against minors only relates to felonies and starts from adulthood, i.e. the completion of the eighteen years. There is now provision for a change in the timing of the limitations on trafficking in human beings, the predicament of minors and the offences against sexual freedom. The new bill also provides for the automatic prosecution of offences against sexual freedom when directed against minors. Those acts are currently to be prosecuted at the request of the Commission, i.e. within a period of three months, so that the time limit for declaring them to be inconsistent. In the proposed change, the time for the complaint is five years and the prosecutor shall prosecute upon reference, sue or other information that the offence has been committed. Even, as a felony, sexual acts with minors, that is to say, the seduction of minors, are also standardized. Nowadays, robbery is punished according to the age of the minor. The change in the Criminal Code must, however, be combined with the strengthening of police, public prosecutors and judicial authorities, the speeding up of the extradition of criminal offences, so that the new regulations that are passed can also have a substantial effect on the daily lives of citizens. Ladies and gentlemen, as I said before, sometimes the legislature drives society, sometimes it has to listen to it. This is how progress is being made. It's a two-way relationship, and I honestly think there's nothing wrong with that. After all, what do we do every day in this House when we legislate and also with parliamentary control? Aren't we listening to the views of the institutions? Aren't we promoting the issues of various social groups? Aren't we listening to society? As to what should we take all this? As a retreat to pressure and populism or as a genuine process of representative democracy? As a spouse, as a parent and as a Member I understand the need to adapt the legislation to the new data for a more proportionate and fairer administration of justice. That is why I propose his vote. As far as the amendments are concerned, because the time is running out, I will refer to the doubling of the minimum guaranteed income for the month of December of the Ministry of Labour and the establishment of an open programme for the creation of 100 000 new jobs. As far as the amendment to the heating allowance is concerned, the first time I spoke to the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Koklakakis, saw my recommendation positively to integrate households using district heating into the heating allowance. And now, with the amendment of the Minister for the Environment, Mr Screka, justice will also be given to this category of our fellow citizens by means of the joint ministerial decision, where the criteria for their accession will also be laid down. So they will receive the heating allowance too. From this step I would like to thank the Ministers, Mr. Skylakakis, Mr. Stagiora, Mr. Skreka and the Secretary-General for Economic Policy, for this brave decision, which, with the increased funding thresholds for the heating allowance this year, provides financial support to households to cope with the difficult winter conditions. The government shows its solidarity with this subsidy, such as, of course, with the support of households in electricity and other measures which will be announced as a result of the impact of an increase in energy and fuel costs on our daily lives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u76	Good. The talker cycle has been completed with a physical presence. Before we move to the speakers via Webex, the SYRIZA Parliamentary Representative, Mr Xanthiopoulos, has asked for the floor for his denology. After Mr Xanthopoulou, we will go to the other speakers via Webex. Here, Mr. Xanthopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u77	Thank you very much, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The process is now complete and I think some safe conclusions can be drawn, in particular, politically. We have called on the committees once the draft law has been put forward, which obviously does not exist, otherwise the Minister - given his sensitivity - would have tabled it. We tabled a question with Mr Lappa in March, brought it back next month, and we put it in committee. So I am entitled to claim that we discuss without finding. I have two questions which strengthen this assessment. The Minister withdrew - and he is credited - Article 133. Was there on the committee's finding that he shut up and shut up?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u78	... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u79	The reverse. There is a malicious occupation of molotovs with an amendment. Was it in the committee's conclusion or did he shut it down during the procedure? I am saying this in order to strengthen our opinion, which we have expressed from the outset. It is crucial to know whether we are talking about a scientific basis or whether we are talking about a policy, because that is precisely the centre of confrontation of politics. Otherwise the argument is developed on the basis of scientific criteria, otherwise on the basis of political criteria. Nearly all the speakers of the Partnership have told us - apart from their self-evident obligation to exalt the bill - about society, that society is forbidden to ask for society, we are listening to society. I would like to remind my fellow Members, the overwhelming percentage of whom he states to be religious, that the most famous judicial error was based on a dilemma of Jesus or Baravan. And then the crowd decided. Two thousand years have passed, we have now passed the pre-pre-emptive stage, legislated on the basis of the findings of science, discussed and confronted on the basis of the findings of science and not on what is distributed in the public sphere, in the cafes, on the Internet and on the front pages. I am, of course, always talking about criminal law, and I am talking about the codes relating to the awarding of Criminal Law and no, I am not generally and vaguely speaking. In this bill, therefore, the absence or omission of the finding of the legislature makes it vulnerable to any kind of political comment. Mr Minister, you have again expressed surprise at the amendment, which provides for the secondment of judges to the office of the Vice-President of the Government. I honestly cannot understand how you imagine the judiciary, because in the way you deal with it, I think you're giving him a role that doesn't belong to him. Neither a therapist of the pursuits of political power is an assistant staff of your Ministry. Apart from the fact that this provision has serious constitutional problems, because these people, the judges, are not seconded to administrative posts. The fact that you have a right as Minister, in your capacity, is obvious that they are the technocrats of your Ministry and it goes without saying that you must have them. They can't go to any other ministry. Question one. Whenever Mr Pikramenos ceases to be the Vice-President of the Government, what will these positions be? Will they continue to support the next vice president, who is not a judge, not a judge? Second and very important. In fact, in our view, an ex-institutional way of administration and justice management is being set up again. This is an extremely serious problem for us too. In other words, Mr Pikrammenos has expressed a number of views on how the term of office of judges should be, the judges' judgments, whether to accompany the judges from school to the end of working life, he has spoken of a court ruling 'KAIKRATH'. And we see that another pole of justice management is being formed outside the Ministry of Justice. And that, of course, we cannot accept. We're denounced. And we are against this, not because it is an initiative by the Government, but it is not possible to institutionalise such institutions that do not have a functional relationship with what we have voted on with the structure of the Ministerial Council and, above all, with the role and position of the Greek judges. I would like to set two other parameters and highlight to the Greek people things that we will see in the next few days. You are bringing an amendment to the representation of political education to the Special Court. And I understand very well that the only special court which is before the eyes is that of Mr Papagelopoulos and, of course, Mr Papayannakis. You realise that setting up a policing post in support of the category is essentially turning the Special Court into a counter-coupling area as being unsubstantiated. Of course we are opposed and, of course, we will see how this process is going to develop. But for once, we point out you're playing with the institutions, but this thing seems to be none of your business. The false statement you modified, brought the legislature?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u80	He's coming now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u81	Still? Well, be careful. It is another indicator of how you understand the functioning of the institutions and what you are preparing to do. This is what we are talking about and how the Greek citizens are getting used to, because it is precisely the issues that will be involved in the public sphere in the next period. I close with the amendment we tabled for Article 82a of the Criminal Code. We need to be conversant with all the wings. It is impressive, Minister, that we have submitted it since yesterday, that we are now 25 hours and 24 hours of silence. None of the speakers in the House have said a word about this amendment. I hope you will clarify and enlighten the House and the Greek people in your imminent position. But I would like to say that no one anymore has the right to pretend that it is a matter of the general and ultimate future. Today we are putting ourselves before our responsibilities. We have taken an initiative that, in our view, is sound legal and therefore you have no scientific arguments to compare. It is socially imperative that the country should be in the hands of the constant genocide, thirteenth of the number so far. All the wings of the House have submitted their consent to such an arrangement and remains in your Government to complete the step of bravery shown by Article 133. It is obvious that we will insist. It's a social matter. It's an individual topic. It's a matter of the existence of society. Because when half of heaven does not have security in his home, you understand that the fate of mankind is predetermined negative. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Mr. Xanthopoulou. And we continue with the speakers via Webex with Mr Simopoulos first. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u83	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, at first I shall make a few comments based on a speech by a colleague from SYRIZA. My colleague from SYRIZA a while ago claimed that the country has become a banana. I stress that banana would be the country if the previous governance of the period 2015-2019 continued. He also claimed that the government is closing the eye on every sound sprayed. Irrespectively Savages! A Member of Parliament who is a member of a party who at first claimed that there are no vaccines, after that the vaccines were for all use and that the vaccines were unstoppable, and at the end a top strain of them was in the literal procession of every case of sprayed. Thirdly, it is essentially written with the Dutch journalist who, in fact, did not ask a question. He was attacked by the Greek Prime Minister and received with arguments the appropriate answer. I now come to the Criminal Code where the dividing lines between the government and, above all, the Officerial Response and the other parties have actually emerged. One can well claim to be ideological differences. But even if it is not ideological, it may well be differences between logic and irrationality, between the peace that citizens demand for their everyday lives and the disruption of it with a weapon an ideological right. Yes, it may be a difference between maintenance and progress, but with the opposite sign that the Anti-Civilism wants to impose in particular. We have heard about Balkans, we have heard about anachronistic laws by persons who seem to be unscrupulous from the reality prevailing in Greek society. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Criminal Code is a weapon of state power. But this power in democracy is granted by the citizens. It is therefore a democratic weapon and as such must be dealt with. The size, level of penalties must obviously be equivalent to the legal sense of citizens, to the legal sense. One point must be reflected, but there must be no opportunity for populism to enter our jurisprudence system. Does the economic situation play a role in the extent of what we call criminal offences? Of course, yes. In no case, however, should this reality lead to a reduction of penalties or even to a Criminal Code that will ultimately be a weapon of punishment and penalisation such as the Criminal Code that the previous government has passed, degrading a major criminal delinquency and causing the public to feel fair in the summer of 2019 before its elections. All this takes account of the current amendment to the Criminal Code which will be judged in practice. It attempts to further shield our legal arsenal of criminal behaviour and harmonises with European conventions regulating, among other things, the rights to protect and evaluate minors and adult victims of criminal activity. I would also like to point out here that opposition does not argue in every article. It generally seeks to reduce overall intervention. Because he knows that if he starts to argue in an article, he will ask for a reduction in penalties that the Greek society does not want under any circumstances. And that's why we don't hear any arguments in an article, an article. At this point I would like to emphasise an article in which I, along with other Members of Parliament, contributed to the punishment of fishing by boat or other means flying the flag of a third country without the permission of the competent authority in the sea zone concerned. In short, there will be penalties, there will be a punishment procedure for Turkish fishermen, who now, on the basis of the 2019 Penal Code, can fish, without punishment, within our territorial waters. If, of course, we want to be more substantial - and I urge the Greek Government to do so - we could allow and the flexibility of the port authorities to act immediately as soon as they have seen the illegal fishing activity and lead these vessels to the nearest Greek port in order to impose the penalty provided for. In the context of this debate and the improvement of the bill, I agree with the view to exempting the arrest and production of police officers for actions in the performance of the service. It is appropriate for the criminal prosecution to be carried out following an integrated juror of an administrative inquiry and, if sufficient evidence arises of his guilt, of course to be prosecuted and ordered to carry out a main interrogation. The proposed draft law, ladies and gentlemen, brings changes that will improve the existing legislative framework, which will handy and of great importance, one day before the elections the SYRIZA government voted, creating a number of problems. The legal vacuum created by SYRIZA, by abolishing or degrading a major criminal delinquency offences guaranteeing the rule of law, but also increasing crime, require a continuous review and adaptation of existing forecasts, both in the Criminal Code and in the Code of Criminal Procedure. The new draft law includes amendments and improvements to the provisions of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, rationalisation of the penalties provided for, and reintroducing important provisions which had either been abolished by the previous government or which had been degraded to misdemeanours with lower penalties. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] At this point, I would like to stress that the government should see with very open ear any proposals from wherever they come, which concern...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u84	Please complete, Mr. Simopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u85	...sexual crimes. I think that the whole society is ready to take action. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u86	Good. Before giving the floor to the next speaker, I will give the floor to the Minister, who has asked for the floor, to make an intervention in relation to legislative improvements. Here, you have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. I will testify to them so that they may also be in the presence of colleagues. Apologise for the long delay. We are paying attention to a word - a word, and that is what you realise that it always gives rise to the reason for the delay. Please for the Minutes and for my fellow Members.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u88	Good, to share in the parliamentary groups as well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u89	We continue with Mrs Olga Kefefaliannis from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor, Mrs. Kefaliannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u90	Thank you very much. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Ladies and gentlemen, the amendment of the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure is a very important initiative by the government, and it was also a commitment. A commitment with two objectives: on the one hand, to correct the failures and deficiencies of the previous government that brought the new Criminal Code to the peninsula of the 2019 national elections, and on the other hand, there was no time for dialogue, on the other hand, to strengthen the security and protection of citizens against crime, by harmonising our criminal legislation with the needs of the modern social rule of law, but also in view of the new challenges that this is facing. In this respect, the draft legislation quite rightly strengthens the protection of the most vulnerable, such as minors, citizens of third countries, victims of sexual abuse and economic exploitation, victims who, because of their vulnerability and the abuse they have suffered, are unable to testify, without the support of specialists, which will now be provided to them. It is also extremely serious that penalties should be tightened up, but that provision should be made for these cases to be dealt with as a priority, as well as for changing the timing of the start of the limitations on trafficking in human beings, the predicament of minors and offences against sexual freedom. The limitation will now begin with the victim's adulthood, extending one more year for a flood or another three years for a felony. They are, therefore, re-expanding and extending the offences provided for in the old Criminal Code for the limitation of sexual freedom and turning against minors, which the previous SYRIZA government had wrongly changed, defining the start of measuring their limitations on the adulthood of the victim and only on the felony, obviously, to an unacceptable reasonable set of settlings for these particularly sensitive and heinous crimes. The very social reality recently indicated that the victims of such crimes are in a position to report them much later than the one they have done, because the psychological consequences they face are enormous. Equally important legislative intervention is the conversion to self-prosecuting crime, the insult of sexual dignity in the workplace. And I call again on this, the modern social reality that shows us that many such cases have not been reported in time or have never been denounced by the fear of the victims to lose their jobs, to face biopolitics problems or even to be exposed to their wider business cycle. Sensory revelations in relation to extortion practices in the workplace, particularly at the expense of women, leave no room for inaction in these matters. So is modern economic challenges. Especially after the outbreak of the pandemic, the achievement of gender equality and the workplace, is seen in a critical condition of prosperity. Ladies and gentlemen, in the case of sexual harassment for minors and adults, especially within the workplace, I myself had intervened in good time. From the first moment they saw the light of publicity in shocking cases, I asked the relevant questions to the Minister responsible, stressing the immediate need to adjust the criminal treatment of such crimes, which is rightly proposed in the draft law under discussion and passed. In fact, I am once again amazed at the attitude of Officer Opposition - unpleasant, of course - of its objections to the allegedly blind striction of sentences and the elaboration of topicality. It is shocking, and the fact that the committee responsible has heard from the Qualified Opposition that Caroline's felonies are one in six months or two in a year. Throughout the restrictive measures, the abuse of women and domestic violence has increased sharply, not only here in Greece, but worldwide. In this situation, the sad long list of their most extreme form, the gypsy. Only in 2021 in our country, the number of murders of women associated with their gender is already doubled, and we have not closed the year. So do we have to do with the government's timeliness? No, of course not. Is the timeliness working, reintroducing and expanding deportation to commonly dangerous offences, such as arson, explosion, flooding? The environment cannot be destroyed, lives lost, property of people and Census Opposition insists on the ideological logic of impunity. Ladies and gentlemen, the legislator must disguise social conditions, those that give rise to crime. Alas, if it does not adapt the legislation to the nature and intensity of the criminal phenomenon. We are already in the face of a new social and economic reality. In a rapid change in economic, labour and social relations, under the growing influence of the technological sector. In this changing reality, fatality, the crime itself is changing and, of course, it must also be dealt with. For this reason, it is very important that the government proceed quickly to review all the codes, but also to digitise the judiciary, so that we can give the judiciary those tools more quickly and qualitatively. If we want to talk realistically about economic growth and prosperity, we need to deepen ourselves in establishing the rule of law, a state, namely, which protects the citizen, gives him a sense of security and thus makes him feel free. Free to create, innovate and progress! Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u91	Thank you, Mrs. Kefaliannis. Before going to the next speaker, we will give the floor to Mr Screka Minister for the Environment and Energy to develop the amendment at a general rate of 1127 and a specialist of 92. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, Mr President. Very briefly, I would like to say that we are tabling an amendment with number 1127 and a special 92. As the ladies and gentlemen are well aware, in order to address the effects of the unprecedented energy crisis affecting Europe and, by extension, Greece, we have set up a special fund for the energy transition. There we have resources from the carbon dioxide and greenhouse gas auctions, namely - and these resources are then allocated and promoted to subsidise the electricity bills of the Greek households so that we can absorb most of the appreciation of electricity. At first we distributed 150 million euros. After the last announcements we made yesterday, we will finally make available EUR 620 million to that account. With our amendment we give the opportunity to finance from this special account called the 'Special Account Energy Transfer Fund'. We give the opportunity to promote resources to support the heating allowance, which we give with specific income criteria to beneficiaries in Greece. We also give the opportunity to finance from this account the Municipality of Jordan to cover exceptional and increased cost needs arising from the use of electrodes for district heating in Kozani, and of course we give the opportunity through this account, through the fund for the energy transition, to provide the special account for the reconnection of vulnerable households and the repayment of their debts. This is the last intervention we have made as a government. We have already announced that in order to be able to help even more those most in need and not to remain any household on cold winter days without heating, we are creating a five-digit emergency number where a household that has no access to gas or oil to heat its house, has cut off its electricity, we are giving the opportunity to call this five-digit number and immediately to return the relevant municipal social service and move on to reconnection. For the cost of this reconnection, as well as the repayment of part of these households, we give the opportunity to use money from the Energy Transfer Fund. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Evangelos Apostolos has the floor from SYRIZA through Webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr President. The crumbs announced by Mr Screkas and the phone numbers for vulnerable households, unfortunately, mean nothing. Ladies and gentlemen, in Greece there is, over time, a slogan of criminal repression that made it the most punishable and to a maximum extent ineffective throughout Europe. We, SYRIZA, have taken an important step that has also received general acceptance and you, New Democracy, instead of taking a step forward, move backwards. Since the takeover of the country's governance you have started to demolition and work criminal justice, returning rapidly to the stone years. With this bill you seal this effort. You are moving towards an uncovered regression by introducing a generalised tightening up of penalties, abolishing the previous legislative attempt to rationalise and proportionality of penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, the question to every citizen who has recourse to justice is whether the Code of Criminal Procedure and the Criminal Code guarantee both his rights and, of course, the ones in society from criminal acts and in this intercystinda, it is certain that the citizen has the lead, since it is preferable to acquit a guilty person from the condemnation of an innocent person. On the basis of this rule, which affects not only the result, as much as the protection of the rights of the individual from the arbitrary authorities, I shall approach the amendments that you are proposing. Minimum are the devices having a positive mark. Most are of a fragmentary nature and are aimed at tightening sentences on many offences. In view of the fact that many of the offences will be dealt with by a few or one-sided judicial bodies, then there will also be a problem in the administration of justice. We're against the provision that adds new...(It didn't sound because of a bad connection) to the one-faced courtroom. A single body that imposes sentences of up to 15 years is incomprehensible to be able to impose even life. I am thinking above all of the regulation with the provision of the bill that characterises all commonly dangerous crimes and relates to the provision of a penalty based on abstract risk rather than specific risk. It does not require a risk to have arisen as an element of the objective nature of the crime, but it could simply come about and a penalty could be imposed, in fact, increased, without causing any danger. That's too dangerous. However, with arson crime, we cannot escape our protection from the Minister's summer reference to the current provision and that he will bear a stricter order. Minister, large-scale fires or those where there was a danger to life or to public utilities, as happened with the fires of all the days of August, are already being punished as a felony. In fact, the Criminal Code passed by SYRIZA is punished as a felony and any fire that extends over a large forest area and is not required for a particularly large area, as was the case with the old Criminal Code. At the same time, there was for the first time a penalty for life imprisonment for forest fire in the case of a large number of victims, which never existed in the past. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, elsewhere it is the problem with the fires of northern Evia. That is the size of the disaster that we are not talking about underestimating anti-missile policy or inadequacy. We are talking about total lack of design and work based on needs. Only the rain was able to erase the last fire chamber in Evia. But we are also talking about specific responsibilities that need to be personified when the Chief of the Fire Elevator himself told a television interview that he did not watch the Evia Fire Front too much because he was busy solely with another, or when the district commander said that the fire department had been given a non-detonation order or when the mayors said that their areas were deliberately abandoned. You can understand that that is where justice must be thoroughly seen. I am also going to stand by another tightening, the one under Article 191 of the Criminal Code on the dispersal of false news, and the negligence of the crime, since it provides for a prison sentence of up to one year or a penalty of money, and today there is a penalty of money or public service work. That is to say, this article of the bill on the one hand provides for imprisonment and, on the other, annihilates the penalty for the provision of social services and completely eliminates it from the provision, thus revealing the position of the New Democracy and the Minister of Justice, which is a place of distrust and abhorrence to the institution of social work which has been introduced in our country since 1991 and is valid in all the legal ranks of the countries of Europe. However, this provision must be fought in its philosophy, something which has already been made clear to everyone, and the associations of journalists in Greece and Europe have reacted very strongly. I am closing down with a reference to SYRIZA's very important amendment on femininity in our country. Ladies and gentlemen, the removal of life on the basis of sex is not just a murder. It is an anthropological phenomenon that needs to be addressed in particular. This situation must be addressed, ladies and gentlemen, by the government. We hope that this amendment will be accepted by everyone. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Apostle. We're continuing with Mrs. Lykoli from KINAL.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I am in Larissa and we are connected through telematics, precisely because I do not think there is a person in Larissa who has not come into contact with a case. The city, the Prefecture of Larissa and the area of Thessaly is located right in the eye of the cyclone. As the President knows today and in his capacity as well as in his great interest, as he is very close to health issues, unfortunately we also have intubations, but we also have COVID beds outside the ICM. We've got a COVID ranch in the hallways. So that means, ladies and gentlemen, Minister, that we are with our backs on the wall literally. Unfortunately, we have not made any serious progress in the vaccinations that will make us sicken, at least for the next period of time. We are dealing with very serious issues that we will find in front of us. The government shows that it is currently in a serious embarrassment. Both the Minister of Health and the Deputy Minister recently visited Larissa, but unfortunately we have not seen very specific communications we have been waiting for. But we didn't see them. As far as today is concerned, the Group of the European People's Party has debated the subject of this draft law at length, Minister. We have been very concerned about it, and we have decided to stand firm with honesty and uncriticalness against any kind of communication attitude or dependency. We wanted to be useful and material and, above all, consistent with the attitude of the great democratic party that has put back on us and has carried out serious reforms in terms of our legal system which has laid down a progressive sign if you allow me and of course has turned its punishment into a prisoner without having done all of it, without anyone having done all of it. We still have too many things to do and we know what we need to do to be useful and effective. Today's draft law has good and bad news. I will begin with the good things that, although they are important, unfortunately, are not enough to convince them of the feasibility that you bring the bill as the world has it in boukon and you have hidden pride. The good news, therefore, is the positive provisions that correct and improve the pathogens of Criminal Law, such as interventions related to crimes against minors, crimes against sexual freedom, economic exploitation, sexual life, the proposed changes in the Code of Criminal Procedure, which are mainly technical in nature. We lawyers understand what we're saying. But the buffalo that the world has and you're a secret curtain is that you've made the news collage. You pulled out the big vulgar titles, so you said that this thing is selling. So here's a very good opportunity to sell the legislation. The bad news is that the country's biggest judicial union recently published a text with its comments on the changes that you are bringing. It conquers very important points and inspires - that is, the government - regulation that circumvents important articles such as Article 5 and 14 of the Constitution and Article 11(1) of the Charter of Fundamental Rights of the European Union. We are, of course, talking about the changes you bring about in Article 191. My own personal view, but also the context in which the debate was initiated in our parliamentary group, Mr Minister, is that if there were not what exists now, namely pandemic, accuracy, pestilence, famine, earthquake, oppression, the world would be for that on the road. He'd be on his way. Because this really means that the right to freedom of expression, expression of opinion and opinion is being violated on very important issues and will be judged by someone else if what is said and heard by a media, by a site, by a body of expression, in any case, addressed to the public, is concerned, it is dangerous. Hazardous is what you bring. Dangerous for democracy. It reminds us of other times and I tell you with absolute honesty. It is a reason for serious discussion, it is indeed a change that is lightning in hunger. You allegedly bring it on the occasion of the make news that exists for the pandemic, for vaccinations, etc. While you know that when you really want to regulate very specific issues of major importance at national level, you can do so very specifically. On the other hand, let me tell you what you're doing. Mr. Apostle mentioned it in another dimension. You do the following. You hide and the eye to those who react, such as the ESA, for example, saying, "Look at seeing, don't react because I also let crime be committed by negligence, but by less and more penalties." I mean, pretend, and I'm messing with him. Close your eyes, according to the commonly called, according to the populace. But that's not how anyone actually legislates. It is going to be added to the unacceptable institutional obstacles that have been made. Let us start, for example, from the fact that the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure, which is actually what the Constitution is expressing in the practical dimension, cannot change every two years. The time has not been given to implement and evaluate the previous provisions with closed courts within the pandemic, with a climate of insecurity for the citizens who no one wants to deal with it. You invest as I saw in the original news titles, in the news. For purely communication reasons, you bring to Parliament a draft law which we cannot vote for. We will vote on the positive provisions, but of course we will also demonstrate your feasibility. It is to pete the ears of the Greek society, which, however, you sink daily into the intubations, to beds outside the ICM and more to poverty and insecurity due to the accuracy, with what you are trying to do, such as the previous announcements you have made with the amendments. So you're playing with what he sells most in the world to satisfy the fair television, because everyone's stuck in front of the screens and they're waiting for the good news. Horizontal tightening of sentences and the way in which he is built for heinous crimes, weakening the penalty that is subjected to a simple public debt, and anyone who finds it, has found it. A punishment tool is really turning valuable penitentiary institutions such as the conditional dismissal. You continue to underestimate very important institutions for the penitentiary system such as rural prisons and, of course, silence, radio silence when you are told by the penitentiaries themselves and by all the bodies that at the moment you have ten thousand and seventy-five positions in prisons and some tens of thousands of prisoners are detained with 130% totalitarianity in Larissa prisons. That's why you're not talking, you're not saying anything. You are not saying that you are excessively restricting the possibility for judges to personalise criminal treatment. On the other hand, on the other hand, you even have them as experts in the political offices. That's it! So what are you telling us now that you trust them or that you don't trust them? Or that you trust some people and others you don't trust them? And I conclude with a thought, Mr President. You will allow me, with the experience of the twenty-seven years that I am ministering to the area of justice, to say that matters of justice and administration are crucial issues. These are issues when it comes to a reformist figure. There is a need for social consensus and scientific consensus. In order to change the way in which penalties are rendered and created, there should be a comprehensive, planned, time-calibrated anti-crime policy and the infringibility of dealing with holocausts. In this way you do, unfortunately, he is a "bark and spectacular". But do you know what the matter is? The bread has long gone from the table of Greeks and Greeks. He remained the sight and the sight will be judged in the next election when the citizens will judge, compare and evaluate what the make news was eventually. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mrs. Liikali. We're continuing with Mr. Biagi from the Change Movement. Mr. Biagi, you have the floor for seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the pandemic has now rooted in our lives. The situation of hospitals is becoming more and more pressing every day. There is strong social suffocation, and the economic deadlock in family budgets is beginning to multiply dangerously. So no doubt, this period that we are experiencing has left for the good one its own special imprint. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure are two very important legislations with huge special weights which far exceed a simple piece of legislation. And any changes in this must be done with the greatest enthusiasm, after thorough processing and study, enclosing first and foremost and above all the economic and social data of the time, as well as the substantiated proposals of the scientific community. These proposals have been made and emerged through the application of this legislation over time. Instead, for the second time in a row, you are tabling an amendment to the Criminal Code - the first was in November 2019 - and now within two years you are bringing a new amendment of seventy-four articles in total. Minister, indeed the memorials, in conjunction with the sweeping changes imposed by the coronary pandemic crisis, have increasingly exacerbated the update of the legislative arsenal. However, the way you legislate - haste, skin, clip, fast - unfolds your real political character. Legislation without evaluating and deepening on the substance and depth of the changes. Indicative of your legislative curiosity is also the storm of the amendments we have every time in every bill and in many articles or amendments. As in this particular case, within one afternoon you have tabled a large number of amendments. Legislation is without measure, without prior scientific processing, without the research required to make substantial and real changes and areas that justice so badly needs. You are deeply immersed and trapped in an endless communication impress game that you have brought from the substance and the real criticality of the times. You are a government of limited political reflexes, I would say, with a very low political barometric. Suffice to observe the headlines of the newspapers to predict your next steps. In fact some of the earlier amendments are necessary. The time of monuments, incarceration, unemployment, the economic crisis are constantly recording growing social diseases. However, tightening the sentences alone does not mean efficiency and efficiency, penalisation, repression, successful anti-crime policy, strengthening the institution of justice, or whatever you are evangelizing in this propagandaist communication policy of yours. In order to be able to deal with the problem essentially, we need to see it from its roots, so that we can see its genealogical causes. We live in a country where the legal system is questioned and the institutions of justice are being shaken. So that the institutions do not lose their value, credibility and prestige we all have to support them in fact and wherever it is necessary, but without parentheses and without micro-political gaming. We therefore have to promote a holistic model of combating crime based both on prevention and repression, but also on penalism, in which the alternative forms of punishment, such as socially beneficial work, will have an important place in mind. You have admitted that, too, Mr Minister, in your public position, we can achieve a great deal with socially beneficial work. However, public service work has been suspended for two and a half years because of Law 4623/2019 that your government has voted for. Minister, I believe that every new project proposed must include structures, services and counselling, social and psychological support for every citizen and every fellow man who needs it. It is our duty, duty and responsibility to provide the necessary support and to form the conditions and structures to eliminate the violence which nowadays takes a worrying dimension. We must, however, ensure that, with our actions, with psychological counselling, with solidarity, with humanity, we are empathetic to the worst. We need to be a helper of a new anonymous Me Too supporter, I would say, who will actually help and support the people next door. Ladies and gentlemen, I would also like, in two minutes, to end up in the penitentiary system which, as far as I can see, is perhaps a minor priority for the government, but it is the highest for us in the Change Movement. First of all, I would like to mention the conditions in detention stores that are suffocating and desperate, not to say inhumane. You have all been mentioned, Mr Minister, the need for decongestion of prisons and the creation of new infrastructure. Let me also mention for one minute for my region of Corfu where for decades both the institutional bodies, the legal world and the corporal society itself have been demanded with strength, I would say, the relocation of prisons to a new building, with greater capacity and with the best infrastructure. No meaning, no response has been made. The situation tends to be particularly problematic because of the limited capacity and the old age of the building with what this entails. I would therefore ask you, Minister, to demonstrate, through your Ministry, the due attention and the pressure required to re-examine this request. It's an urgent need, and it doesn't fit off. In a short time, and Corfu prisons will be turned into war cages, let me be among the prisoners because of the inappropriate conditions. I would also like to mention once again - and I have done so, let me, in a previous bill - the opportunities we give through the second opportunity schools, which you have so much ignored and underestimated. But I must assure you, once again, that these schools are literally miraculous. At the 2nd School of Second Chance in Corfu, Minister, prisoners from the heated and cold confinement enter creative action, learn to coexist in creative action, learn to coexist in groups and create, come out of passivity and stagnation, produce and move forward. The results are obvious. It is politically impossible to turn your back and not to support these structures in any way, which have been built with a lot of interest by some people and with the contribution of local societies. We therefore need an overall proposal and not just a tightening up of penalties and persistent crises and crises in crisis. We also need confiscation and action. So we also need second-rate schools, and we need every institution that proves our real human and humanitarian character. We must build a society that supports, believes and encourages people and escape this current appalling logic of the sentences, judges and courts that go beyond man. Our aim is to eliminate violence and create a more human society. The tightening of sentences in itself does not change the compass that will come. A comprehensive design is needed, which will be developed including all social, economic needs of the time and will then provide practical and substantial responses and solutions to existing problems. Finally, we, as a Movement of Change, always operate in the light of the changing social needs and in line with them, we go and move on, because for us a priority, Mr President, our task is the citizen and society, and not communication and patches constructed impressions. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Biagi. The list of speakers is completed via Webex. We are going to go through the words of the rapporteurs and of special speakers, and the Minister will close the debate. Mrs Adamopoulou from Mera25 has the floor for five minutes with tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u100	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, there have been great personalities in the field of Criminal Law, which have indeed made a brilliant move towards the founding and development of Criminal Law, both in the letter and in the spirit of its provisions. I'll mention Manoledakis, Androylakis, Magakis, Zisiades, Horafas. All of these personalities, despite any disagreement on the theoretical and practical issues of Criminal Law, have converged in the core of the unprovocable, undeniable principles, the unresolved principles governing criminal law, and it is the principle of proportionality between the gravity of the act and the threat of retrospectiveness, with the exception of the retroactive force of the weaker law which favours the defendant, such as the principle of banning the vagueness of the provisions because it ensures, promotes legal certainty and, of course, the principle of legality. I was lucky to have Mrs Angeliki Picchela and Mr Alexiadis Professors of Criminology, Jurisdiction of Juveniles, Interrogatives, who instilled all students basic principles and a concept of anthropocentric above all and liberal in relation to anti-crime policy. We certainly do not have time to analyse further the various time-consuming derailments, which have been subject to criminal law over the years by all governments, I will not make any distinction at this time and from the wrong legal choices, which have been made in particular with regard to non-compliance with the principle of proportionality and the principle of banning the vagueness of the provisions. I am afraid that this bill, Mr Ministers, has fallen into this trap of violating these principles, because it is precisely bringing about an inaccurate and horizontal, as we have said many times, tightening up in the context of the penalties, and because it will all restore potential, abstract risk. I will repeat my personal view that, as we are against horizontal strictness, it should not be our reaction horizontally. And I repeat that for some serious crimes, such as genetics because of the vulnerability of victims, we can discuss it further as to whether the principle of proportionality is violated or not. Despite some good, indeed, interference in the body of codes, which is why in the Code of Criminal Procedure my personal criticism was not largely negative, yet there is a distorted approach and perception of anti-criminal policy, in response to the criminal phenomenon. And it is very sad that criminology professors, scientists from the field of forensics, were deceived because they did not contribute through their own timeout, through their own science in the processing and final text of the bill. So where we have to conclude is that at least we have to have an agreement on this, the criminal phenomenon wants a holistic, global approach that focuses, as I have said many times, on prevention, and that is where we see that the governments are not disarming the social demand for holistic treatment of the criminal phenomenon, proof that such measures are not clearly absent from legislative initiatives. I want to insist a little on the law of minors. Clearly, and I will welcome the fact that you have listened, Minister, to what I have pointed out to you in relation to Article 133 of the Criminal Code. We must welcome positive responses not only to denounce. It was right, therefore, that you withdraw this provision, that it was dangerous for the social reintegration of young prisoners, because when we have heard so many times that young prisoners are constantly subjected to sexual abuse in prisons by barbecue prisons, since you are also showing the corresponding sensitivity to sexual crime, you understand the dangers that you would expose these prisoners. In particular, however, I would like to draw your attention hereafter. In response to the infrastability of minors, we are dealing with the issue of infrastability by responding to the penalty, and it is not the answer that needs to be given. Incarceration of detainees is not an appropriate response or an appropriate response, because we have to understand that the invasion of minors is a causal link with their own victimisation. It is a fact, after scientific research, that most minor offenders have grown up in a highly malicious environment, have suffered chronic physical and sexual abuse, but also neglect. These people should be embraced by the state and treated, as he says, by the Citizens' Counsel, essentially by means of anti-legislative structures always under a regime of supervision and supervision and monitoring of their reintegration. So I conclude with Amendment No 1132/97 with regard to the amendment, which you bring to Article 272 of the Criminal Code, where you say that you are doing two things. First, in paragraph 1, explosives and arson materials shall be part of the prohibited articles and, secondly, in the particular case referred to in paragraph 2, you shall punish criminal possessions either when they take place in a public meeting or when they are in large quantities. The first point is that the explosive and arson bombs all understand why they are also in the current Criminal Code, but what exactly is it about? Because arson matter can be cooking oil, it can be alcohol, even flour can be. In the United States of America in 2014 eighteen workers were killed after an explosion caused by flour. Secondly, what will be the 'public crowd meeting'? Any public meeting? Can it be a concert? Can it be a peaceful social association, which poses no danger to the people who participate in this meeting? Does that mean that once someone owns the explosive or arson material will be at risk in the event of accidental investigation being found to be a accused person? Or does it mean that if someone carries a bag from the supermarket with cooking oil, with alcohol and suddenly stop at a citizen assembly, at a resident assembly again, can it be found in the face of charges? We should therefore attach greater importance to arson use, not to the matter as such, but to whether it can be used for arson purposes or for the urgency of the meeting. The third point concerns the large amount. What's that supposed to mean? We should be interested in whether the specific quantity is active, because both the few grams of plastic explosives or the few grams of dynamite can release energy equal to 100 and the two hundred molotovs. So it says nothing on its own, if it cannot be dangerous, that means that a small quantity can be dangerous too. This is therefore a malicious provision which follows on from the vagueness and carelessness with which you have dealt with certain provisions, what I have mentioned to you in the committees. So we believe - and I am ending here, Mr President - that you have set up a regulation to play the communication game ahead of the 17th anniversary of November, and that it is obviously a dissatisfactory social reaction, which exists from your policy to the management of the pandemic, but also the more general self-government that we are observing and punishing the issues of the specific management of the pandemic, policies which are, in any case, reactionary, anti-social and which affect the interests of the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u101	Thank you, Mrs Adamopoulou. We will now give the floor to the special speaker of the Greek Solution, Mr. Heta. Here, Mr. Heta, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u102	Mr President, thank you very much. We arrived at the end of the two-day meeting on the Criminal Code. A few of us, in order to make it clear to each Greek and every Greek to how much stereophobic the Government of the New Democracy is, how dare not put the knife on the bone and what are the main reasons why the President of the Greek Solution Kyriakos Velopoulos and the Greek Solution, its MPs, cannot vote in favour of this bill. Minister, since the first day we've been in this House, and in line with and always following our schedule, when we say life, we mean life. We are clear, neither fifteen nor twelve nor sixteen nor eighteen years. Life is lifelong, especially for criminals, rapers, pediatricians, such criminals, such monsters, poachers and drug dealers. The position of the Greek Solution is clear and we do not function or decide or vote for a card. When we say life, it's life and you don't dare do it. It's over and over! So don't falsify Greek citizens that you're the hard ones in this case. Clearly, because you're pulling out that you're stricting and doing the rest. I'm tightening up, and I'm doing the right thing. The right thing is life, and there's only one meaning for life. Life means life. It's over and over! They do not see sunlight again, these monsters are not conceived by these people, who lay hands on young children have no chance of being conscientious. If you'd actually brought life, we'd be voting for the bill, and if you did, you withdrew article 191 of the Criminal Code, which is scandalous. We are talking about declining the free view, and we are talking about declining the different viewpoints. We're talking about a megaton scandal. We're talking about suffocation of the press, freedom of the press. And to ask something, why are you doing it for the pandemic and you want to hit those opinions that may affect people. We heard it and we hear it. The pandemic will go away. Six months? I wish it would be sooner! In a year, will he be gone in a year and a half? This will remain, the demonization of the opposite view will remain behind. And let me ask you a question: do doctors, scientists have different opinions, or do they not? So it's science, it's dynamic, it changes. What's he gonna say? Whoever has a different view, expresses it, will you arrest him? Will you arrest the doctor? Will you close the instrument that hosted him? Is that what you're going to do? We told you in committee too, and you were a little upset. They are reminiscent of neighbouring country methods - which I do not even want to mention her name - what you are doing. These are not democratic things. 191 is wrong, you go solve a problem, but you create multiples. Open Pandora's box, open the ferry door. It's wrong what you're doing, Mr. Chiara, and you'll see it along the way. Remove article 191 of the Criminal Code! Put lifelong and real life in order to collect the "yes" of the Greek Solution! Otherwise, you will not get 'yes' from us, they are 'no' and the same applies to the amendment on molotovs you bring, to see how hypocritical you are. As far as molotovs, ladies and gentlemen, Greeks and Greeks are concerned, what is the New Democracy doing? So he does the issue of molotov felony, just like that, understand it. We're totally in agreement. Do it right, Minister! Do it right, because you're still stereophobic. So you say: "Anyone who manufactures, supplies, owns explosives for molotovs" - perfectly, fine - "heavy, will be arrested". That's the first. Thirdly, what does the third provision say in the article? Listen, ladies and gentlemen, what he says: "The perpetrator" - i.e. the criminal, the anarchist, the hamburger, who burns, devastates, throws molotovs to burn people, shops, private shops, the Greek citizen of daily life - "does not be punished, if he is examined by the authorities with his will in these above materials". I'm an asshole, I carry a bag behind me along the way with ten molotovs, I fly and I grow, I go refuel, Mr. Tsiara, I supply again, I go back to battle to burn others, and at that time the police arrest me, "a, what are you doing? All right? Take my purse." He's not punished. Listen: we will only vote on the amendment that becomes a felony. Of course, because we're in favor of law and order, but take it 3! What's he gonna say if he delivers them, he's not being punished? What's that? You're making fun of the world. You tell people outside that we're doing this felony and you're playing it too heavy. But you're not saying that you're riding them of them if they're handed over. Why don't you put that on? Why are you afraid of the Left not to fight you? To keep a balance? What about the ranger and the constable? You're either in favor of law and order or you're not! This is in terms of law and order and how it should be applied. And I will close with one amendment, and the rest will not go into it. You have the hooey in the New Democracy to bring amendments with various means and we are clarifying them for the Greeks and Greeks, who are listening: You are not allowed to vote. You have in the same amendment auction instruments. So you make it easier for the notaries to auction on the one hand, that is to say, the people lose their home - their home, but also to lose it - and, in the same amendment, you have the broadening of the time to recover misappropriated accounts. I mean, you're expanding the time of irresponsible accounts. So, what's that supposed to mean? A pensioner, whose account had been seized by him, went to the poor man on the 28th of the month when the pension was in, made his 500 euros so the bank wouldn't confiscate them. Now you do it 30 days, very good! And we want to vote. How are we going to vote on it, since you have it in the same amendment as auctions in it? How are we going to put our hand here, our MPs and our President, when you talk about auctioning and bringing it together? Traps, that's what you do all the time. What does auctions have to do with alleviating people for a month for their irresponsible accounts? Tell me a little, please, very much, but that's what you're doing. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u103	Good. We are now calling on the special speaker from the Communist Party, Ms Maria Konnakkas, in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u104	Thank you very much, Mr President. We were not disproved - to say so - that, as was seen by the previous debate during the committees, but also by the public debate, which also prevails during the plenary session, the debate was limited to the level of penalties, whether or not criminal law is ultimately tightened up or not, and whether these show a progressive conservative shift in criminal law, which brings about a government. We believe that this question and dilemma are and remains disorientative, because it does not really give rise to the fact that it is or is not right to tighten up penalties, or to reduce the number of cases that have been judged by the previous government as cases of crimes of particular importance. We believe that it does not pay many times the penalty chosen or helps people understand what is the nature of the law and of the changes, but it does not respond to what the government is presenting, that it is supposed to respond to a demand from society to tackle specific offences of particular importance. Why? Because this particular debate, limited only around the level of penalties diligently hides and makes it convenient not to highlight the fact that, in the end, the victims of such crimes are not effectively protected or, in fact, to be prevented from committing crime and not committing it in the future. Because it does not illuminate the real lack of prevention measures. There was a debate on the change in the character of crime, and so on, apart from the report of atrocious crimes, without anyone talking and discussing what the environment is in which crime of this kind develops, which we think is not only dealt with by urban governments, but in reality these conditions are more dynamic. We believe that it does not ultimately help to take the necessary measures to protect and protect the victims and the potential victims. Furthermore, it does not respond to the issues of the penitentiary procedure, social reintegration, etc. It is not of secondary value that the protective system which must be shaped at the same time to actually have these measures which are, in some case, properly taken. We as a party will vote and support the stricter penalties, which have to do with the sexual crimes or measures that we consider to be positive, which will facilitate the denouncement of these crimes in particular to minor victims, etc. However, we consider it problematic that there is still no such network of support structures that will really help, prevent, prevent and support victims so that they can actually denounce and deal with such phenomena. We believe that the way in which this tightening of the penalties or the conditions of its creation is carried out, without discussing the real conditions in the penitentiary, in the possibility that all of these penalties can be assessed, will create problems of another kind, which, as you know, are treated with equally problematic measures of horizontal releases, etc. You come here and close to all the measures that you take to increase the time to produce sentences in certain categories of offences, while you do not talk about whether, in today's penitentiary shops, these sentences can be assessed, but also about whether, under the conditions of the penitentiary procedure, we can talk during the dismissal of prisoners for a prisoner or not, which we think is hypocrisy, because we really believe that the provisions and measures that you are taking will not solve the problem. And we're wondering. In these conditions of overpopulation of prisons, how will these phenomena be dealt with? Unless you are aiming and considering the various plans for private prisons, etc., which exist in other countries and you do not appreciate. We believe that objectively in the near future we will lead to these well-known horizontal decongested laws, which all governments have used to deal with. However, what has not been particularly flagrant in the debate and we have insisted on our initial positions is the dangerous role of Criminal Law and its exploitation at the expense of the people's movement with a number of repressive measures, which are expanding dangerously and not for the first time by the current government. We have also raised a number of such offences in our protagonists which have been severed and widened by the previous government. We are concerned, however, now that this overall choice of the government to turn a number of offences into abstract-risk crimes, creating conditions in a more vague way to criminalise acts without really proving the danger posed to the public. We are also concerned about the way that has been converted - I think we have been very detailed - Article 191 and about the question of the broadness of the provision which really cannot exclude any expression of opinion from criminalisation. Our parliamentary representative, Yiannis Giokas, has mentioned very specific examples which, in fact, can, according to the way in which the provision is made, be judged as false facts, crises made in relation to policy, implemented by the government in defence, the economy, etc., and criminalised. And yet, in your intentions, to use the Criminal Law against the People's Movement, you also prove them with this very dangerous tactic - to say so - the creation of the objective responsibility, which does so, and Article 191 first time, which was not in its earlier wording or before the changes of 2019, the issuer's objective responsibility, which is a problematic choice made by the government in a series of legislations to introduce such a dangerous institution, particularly when talking about Criminal Law. I'm hanging up. We do not think it is accidental that it came to the committees after Article 272, where we are really talking about an unacceptable way of widening the risk, which actually enables a state provocation mechanism to be shaped. By saying in such a broad way that anyone who holds arson materials at a public meeting can be accused of a malicious act - you know, very well, that as a party, we have no relationship or exploited molotovs or such mechanisms - we think these are provisions that can be used and that the provocation should be chosen at the expense of the movement. Of course it is not possible with such extensive wordings on arson matter, which you understand very well that it can be anything, from the lighter to any material, to simply criminalize the possession of such materials only by being present at a public meeting. We understand that elsewhere your gaze is on. If you want, it confirms this criticism that we are making, that criminal law intends and has turned the gaze to strike people's mobilisation and not what it really would ask for and that society is in need, that is to say to protect society from real crime. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. The Minister has asked for the floor for a legislative improvement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u106	It is a legislative improvement that I must announce in consultation with the Bureau. In fact, there is something unnecessary that needs to come out. In Article 147, in the preamble to Article 497 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, the words ‘by adding the penalty to a special detention store for young people’ shall be deleted. I'm filing it in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u107	I would ask that it be distributed to the parliamentary groups. We're continuing with the special speakers. Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor, since I see that there is a document from the Group of the European People's Party on the replacement of Mr Ilhan Ahmed from you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I do not know the scientific committee's comments on Articles 191 of the Code of Conduct in force and 405 and 120 of the Code of Criminal Procedure, how you dealt with them and whether you have taken them into account or not. I think you have not taken them into consideration, and we would like you to tell us why these points have not been made. Now in relation to the section of the bill concerning the Criminal Code, overall valued, we will say that it is dogmatically problematic and forensicly misplaced. If, in the name of the security of citizens, fragmentary interventions are being attempted, both in the general part and in the specific part of the Criminal Code, which break down the coherence of the Criminal Code, they are dismantling - we cannot interpret it differently - the regulations and undermine the rationalisation and modernisation of the system of sanctions, which has been brought about by the current Criminal Code. And I say these according to the prevailing view of science today, and I refer to Anna Psarouda - Benaki, in the "Priminal Chronicles" 2020, "Problems of criminal justice in Greece and the new penal codes", on page 3, where it refers very specifically. I am also referring to Ms Tony Janetakis, "The penitentiary system and the new penal system of penalties of the Criminal Code: The effort to achieve a healthy relationship", "Priminal Chronic" 2019, page 409. The provisions in relation to the assessment of the validity of the criminal code are clear. On the one hand, there are, on the other hand, proposals which are systematically unfavourable, in our view, changes in the basic provisions of the Criminal Code, with a view to the universal principle of tightening up penalties and the way in which they are produced and, on the other hand, in addition to these interventions, there is a weakening of the financial penalty, which is subject to a mere public debt if the sentenced person refuses to subject himself to the execution of the sentences. The penalty for public works has also been reduced, the application that has been suspended since 2019 and has been suspended by the legislator. So the illusion business, with the relaxation of small and medium-sized crime, is being undermined by the contribution, Minister, to threatening hard penalties to say that there is security for the citizens. In other words, it is a key factor in this medium-term and small-scale crime of the security and everyday life of the citizens, which you have not taken note of. Also penalising the provisions governing the suspension and the creation of penalties for certain categories of crimes turn valuable penal institutions, such as the dismissal of the term, into punishable instruments, but also neutralising the special prevention, which is very important, but also the social reintegration of the sentenced person as the primary purpose of the sentence. It is also clear that some of the provisions you propose serve political - communication purposes. "They are inspired" by spectacular events of topicality or recent natural disasters. The criminal legislature thus appears to be subjected, Minister, to on-line needs to satisfy undetermined content of the legal sense, by displaying punishing force, but sacrificing on the altar the original purposes of criminal law. Furthermore, with the bill we have the feeling that there is unjustified distrust among the judges, thus choosing the excessive restriction of self-determination to a modern, liberal criminal law of ability to personalise criminal treatment. Mr Minister and Mr Secretary-General, Professor Manoledakis, in teaching criminal law - and I now say this on the occasion of the judges, how you deal with them - had said this to us: the role of the judge was a major one. If there was no judge, it's simple to have a computer. What do we say? What's the crime? Stealing. We put it on the computer and she was running a sentence for three years. So why does the judge need to? But it's not like that. The role of the judge is irreplaceable, irreplaceable and unique, for the personalisation of sentences and criminal treatment. It is therefore also up to the abolition of the life expectancy and temporary detention or imprisonment and financial penalty and the exclusion of the home-made building of the rest of the sentence for certain categories of crimes. In our view, therefore, the legislator is making use of powers which do not belong to him, bearing in mind that those responsible for applying the Criminal Code will not be sufficiently strict. And of course, dangerous stereotypes of lenient treatment by the courts are being reproduced. So this punishing diversion of the bill manifests itself in a worrying way, with the legally dangerous extension of the crime of dispersion of false news, as we said earlier in the speech. But this also poses the risk of aggressive prosecution in the face of legal certainty and the principle of proportionality. The expedited Ministry of Justice, ladies and gentlemen, is facing malfunctions, which were observed during the two-year implementation of the Criminal Code, indeed. However, this applies only to a small part of these provisions proposed by the amendments. After all, the suspension of the court's function, as has been said in committees, because of the pandemic, does not allow for a calm assessment and a mature evaluation of the application of the new Criminal Code, and case law has, in many ways, dealt with major issues which have emerged in everyday life and practice. We fear, however, that the draft law will not strengthen the smooth adaptation of case law with the new Criminal Code, but it may disturb prematurely and perhaps without sufficient reason the smooth and secure implementation of the provisions and will cause most of the problems in court practice. He won't be able to do it differently. Unfortunately, it will cause problems and that is the fear of the judges and today we are talking about. Finally, Mr President, the debate on crime, which is taking place all these days, can only be inextricably linked to what is happening in the prison area, and in this connection the government has abandoned every modern concept of European penitentiary policy and has shaped a hybrid anti- penitentiary model of sound political executions in conditions without prospect. Because it does not focus on what can be done during the elaboration of the sentence and after the prison, although international criminal investigation is shifting the research interest from the concept of prison to the notion of abstention from crime. Instead, the government has been depriving society for two and a half years, but it is also lacking in social work. The bracelet has been abolished, the rural prisons are being dismantled. It does not matter that the tightening up of sentences will surely lead to an increase in the population of detainees by more than 30%, which means that we will get to the point of carrying out sentences in detentions. I fear that it ignores the fact that the reforms become a simple wish, if they do not involve any cost, which is necessary. It hides, however, that if the penitentiary system is not strengthened, then, Minister, you will allow me to express another 'Tsiara Law' will be needed for the decongestion of prisons and this law will be a one-way path. It must therefore be understood by the government that the most powerful weapon in the hands of the citizen, but also of the organised state, is prevention and, of course, it is not something that is evident from your legislative initiatives. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. I will now give the floor to Mr Karagunis, rapporteur of the New Democracy, and then Mr Lappas will follow. I would like to inform you that there has been an agreement between the two rapporteurs that Mr Karagukounis Lappa should take the lead. Here, Mr. Karaguni, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u110	Thank you very much, Mr President. I think, Mr President-in-Office, that a very productive debate has taken place, a very substantial debate. I think that we have also reached useful conclusions and indeed I have to say a great 'bravo' and congratulations on this legislative initiative that you have brought to you and to your colleagues, but of course also to the Committee on Legal Affairs, which has done an excellent job and, of course, has also been seen in this two-day debate. I must admit, of course, that I did not understand exactly what the position of the whole opposition is, and I think the Minister was right, when he said that, on the one hand, we are accused of being too strict - quite strict - and on the other hand, there is, of course, the other side that told us that we are not as strict as it would have been necessary. The opinions are divided into the whole of the counter-population, so I understand that you have really done something right, Minister, with this legislation that you have brought, because you have chosen the right path, the medium and, of course, an essential path to dealing with a very sensitive issue, as always is the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure. I heard the KINAL, which, of course, during the committees - the Minister said so - had indeed a modestness and a seriousness in its position and approached matters in a very good manner. And now in the debate we have heard something completely different, another approach. I understand - and the Minister has said - that there are internal issues in a party, but here we are talking about very sensitive things. We are talking about the Criminal Code, which is about society as a whole, and it is good to have a cohesion and a follow-up to your thoughts and what you believe in and what you represent. I have heard Mr Scandalidis say that we are legislating on the basis of news. I'll tell you what timeliness is. Events are crime in the Sweet Waters, that is, genocide, news of rape of minors, news of arsonisms, so much pain in Greek society not only in August, but also every year. About every year these disasters take place, and at some point we have to say whether we legislate in this direction. Today, Mr. Lappa, I'm reading the prosecuting motion against Mr. Anagnostopoulos, this criminal, the abhorrent criminal. Do you know what the D.A.'s proposal says? Listen: The five-minute duration of the victim's suffocating drowning, the prior approach to the cessation of the home security camera, the surprise of the suspect victim, from the outset directing it against the robbery, and the planned attempt to mislead the prosecution authorities were the evidence of the crime and according to the prosecutor, the death of the young woman was rampant, while the victim did not hesitate to use his 11 months of child and exterminate his five months of dog. He - I said it in my prototype, I told the committees too - that, apart from the appalling crime, all of this, he killed his wife in his own home, in his own husband's bed, and he treated his child, the child itself, as part of this disgusting direction. I ask, ladies and gentlemen, I ask you, Mr Lappa, and all my fellow Members this: should this criminal not take the captive of sentences? How do we accept...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u111	Why? Is she gonna get a different one?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u112	No, but should not, Mr Lappa, all these 'Angnostopoulos' - I know what you say - get a strong message from the favoured state about what they will deal with? For that is the essential message, Mr Lappa, what message does a favoured state give to all these "Angnostics". And you're right, Minister, and you're bringing this amendment. I have heard you too, Mr Lappa, and of course also Mr Mera25's spokesman and other colleagues, in order to tighten up penalties. When we asked as much as we, of course, both Ministers to tell us all about the strictness of the sentences, but what penalties you refer to, what crimes you are referring to, the essence is that you told us very general things, you didn't tell us specific things, as I now tell you about each other. "Recognition" or for sulphuric acid, for vitillium or forest arsons. You told us some general things. So we legislate and amend the Criminal Code not on the basis of stricterisation, as I have told you, but on the basis of proportionality, and that is why we imposed penalties much more mildly - and I told you before - because that is what legal culture, mild crime and violent crime are saying in a much more stringent manner. That's the point. That is why, as I told you, Article 80 of the Criminal Code - I did not see you making a comment on it - Article 81(4) of the Criminal Code, Article 100, 105, where we do not put citizens in prison because they did not pay a financial penalty, as it is now, or because they did not do their public service. This is what you're going to place on? That is what we have done, and that must do a favoured state. And the serious crime to hunt it and the feminine murder and the rape of minors and arson and everything else. And I'm telling you, because really, Mr. Colleague, you're a very serious man and a very worthy and political and scientist. I think you need to convince your colleagues and, above all, SYRIZA's leadership of this bill, the many good articles that you think you have to vote on. That's what you have to do, so people can trust you, don't say you're on two boats. Because the political problem you have is - and not just that, in the Criminal Code, but also in all matters - that you are on two boats. I was listening before you said that we were both "along with the policeman and the policeman." That's your problem. You are trying to be " both with the police officer and the policeman". So take a clear position on what you want to do. I shall conclude, Mr President, by making a reference to the amendments. Mr Minister, congratulations on the amendment you are bringing and amending Article 272 of the Criminal Code. Finally! And you're doing a felony, someone who participates in a public meeting, carrying on the back of the arson mechanisms, molotovs and explosives. Sulatsari, that is, in the center of Athens, goes to a public meeting and has molotovs and explosives. Does that fit into any logic? I was listening to you too, Mr Lappa, and I was listening to Mrs Konnakka. I cannot understand this: Athens is burning, the shops of the world and of the citizens are burning and there is no punishment. They're mocking the state, they're mocking over all the citizens who burn their shops and they're staying unpunished. Why don't you tell me that someone has been punished, Mr. Lappa! Don't tell me he's even booked one day. This is coming to solve this bill. Do we disagree on that? And it seems to me, indeed - Mrs Konnaka mentioned - because PAME and the JRC are always very careful. Nor are molotovs flying or explosives flying, as do any member of the party. Can't we agree to the obvious that you can't walk down the center of Athens and fly molotov and explosives? You can't do that! It's over and out. And one final point, Mr President, is the very important amendment which for the first time sets out the first one. And, of course, doubling the minimum guaranteed income, which is about 100 thousand people, is very important. What I have to say is that this bill, ladies and gentlemen, has made it clear. The new Code is fair and proportionate. I think, however, that what is essential is that it serves the basic principles of anti-crime policy. This is the important thing, and I call on all parties, at least in most articles, to vote in favour of these provisions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mr. Karaguni. After the Step is ready, we will give the floor to Mr. Lappa, the special speaker from SYRIZA. Then the Minister will close the meeting. Mr. Lappa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. After eight days of intense debate, of course, as it is appropriate to discuss and debate when we talk about criminal justice, I would say about justice in general, because criminal law is a field of law and indeed public law, in which the state has a terrible weapon, power of megatons, boots, pus puniendi, the right to punishment itself. I am telling you that I remember Mr Manoledakis, a student of twenty-year-olds, Mr Kotsira, sighs the voice and the hand raised, even in the years of dictatorship, '71-72, saying that the authority of punishment, ius puniendi, possessed by state power, legal culture, but also by man's general civilization, has led the state to self-limit itself to that power. It is not about legal culture, about self-restriction. It is a pretext of culture, of human culture. Because if the state does not self-limit itself to that power it has, we are going to a police-type state. I'm not putting the blame on your government. I'm saying. Self-restriction is therefore necessary. And that's why I told you about Max Webber's talk about the measure. The measure and the criminal science. I've only missed a second exit for a phone call or an order. I followed the speeches of all the Members of the New Democracy. Everyone, but everyone, taking the message from your speech, Mr Ministers, speak of SYRIZA's 2019 codes. I told you it would be SYRIZA's honor if he could still make these codes. A project after a public debate of seventy years, with four nomadic committees, Manoledakis, Symonidus - Kastanidou - because he died abruptly and suddenly and left early, chaired Symonidus - Kastanidou -, the prosecutor with experience of forty years told you yesterday what he said, Mark and Stavros Argyropoulos. This ten-year function of the four committees codified, gentlemen of the New Democracy, a public dialogue, the writings, the wealth of the authors of criminal practice, lawyers, judges, legal schools, all the bodies of the legal community. Ioannis Manoledakis codified it in a single text first. It was heard, colleague of KINAL, that the 2019 draft law, which I had the honour of defending as a representative of... I had the plan of Manoledakis of 2010, 2011. I'm talking about time periods. In 2011, Manoledakis Committee, who ruled? In 2013, after the succession of the last year by Sytonidou - Kastanidou in 2012, who ruled? In 2013, Marc Committee, 2018 the Argyropoulos Committee. So the three committees, seeing the text of Manoledakis, did not change the explanatory statement either. Neither a single 'and a' nor a 'n'. And Mark's final plan was the whole plan, it didn't change to one tonne, with the plan that we voted on in 2019. I have caused any Member, the Minister of the New Democracy, to tell me if any member of the committee has ever been disturbed - because I was actively involved in the case of the change of the Criminal Codes - by any Member, executive, minister or any other SYRIZA. I say this, Mr President, because it must be made clear that the elaboration, a code - I told you yesterday what Manoledakis said about the code - is the greatest achievement of the ideas of Enlightenment, the codification of laws, namely, for criminal justice. So we have to stop talking about SYRIZA's codes. Mr. Karaguni, you have given me the example of Caroline and the Vitriol. Do you have anything in your hands that makes you doubt that it will be the maximum of penalties for criminal justice? Why do you mention it? Do you have any example in the last decade that the judge, the lawmaker in our country, does not honor the rightful feeling? Or that she's diligent about such crimes and murders? If you have it, bring us an example. I ask you to do so on the first day of the committees. We say, the lawyers, life falls like a hail to the murders. Do you know any murder that's a heinous crime? I don't use the condition of the heinous, because he's been abolished with the death penalty. Do you know any decision to bring us a mixed vow who didn't impose the isovirus penalty, but he chose the divorcing power that the judge has and has to have? Because no murder is a photocopy of another previous. And here I am opening a parable, Mr. Kotsira. In Germany murder, the murder has five ratings. A heated life-long crime, another subcategory from underlife or five years and until it goes to the last fifth case created by the legal community of Germany since the Forbah era, ends at the end of five to ten years. Not all murders are the same. If you don't have the circumstances, you don't have the personality, you don't have the behavior, before, during or after the murder, you don't have the status of the perpetrator against the victim to lift some of the damage he caused. All of this is evidence that the lawmaker appreciates it, to make his sacred right and function, called a punishment measure. Please read, please very much, the suggestion of Theme Koufou, as rapporteur for the Athens Bar Association, what he says about the monoculture of the death penalty, how extensively evaluative anti-discrimination is Article 299, with the horizontally generalized provision of life sentence, Article 79 of the Criminal Code and measuring the sentence and the seven criteria that the legislator itself sets. What will the judge apply? Do you know what you're doing? You remove the right to apply any of the criteria set out in Article 79. Which says? He has some meditative evidence and criteria that he takes into account, to send the final message: 'This sentence goes with the defendant who committed this offence under these circumstances'. All this for you is fine letters. I say it's a policy choice. You're getting out of here. Do you have the right? Of course you have the right. It's not about having the right, though. The point is to listen to the community. Which community do you hear? Theme Wisdom tells you. The Greek Criminal Association tells you. The Plenary Assembly of your Bar Association told you it was sceptically voiced. We opposition parties say so. You're saying you're listening. Who do you hear? You're not listening to anyone. I think it is bad for both the political system and the political dialogue, and I think it is bad for criminal justice, Mr Kotsira, to leave all these insinuations to the detriment of another party that has ruled and made the codes, as if it were a construction as if we were building a sweet moment. That's the code. And it says in the Manoledakis report that "we value the wealth of the legal and legal documents of the last seventy-five years", Mr. Kotsira, in order to produce his explanatory statement and the provisions of the law of the new Criminal Code. And leave insinuation that it's SYRIZA's code. It could not be SYRIZA's code because in criminal justice the first reason, not to say the last and the decisive, is science. I told you what the code is. I read you yesterday the article of Manoledakis. It is scientific rationale and scientific methodology. No political person can have such criteria and elements but a scientist. Mr. Chiara, can you imagine bringing a bill or an amendment to the House concerning the medical community, will you take into account what the medical community and science say with experience and knowledge since it has ceased to be magic and is science, after Voltero? Or will you bring in and say that "This is the political authority, and I do not care what the experiment of medical science says?" Would you ever do that? Why do you do it now in Legal Science on key issues? At least two, I'd say. Our objections are two. Firstly, the monoculture of life-long cleansing, because we do not say so because we are obsessed or because we question what the court will do. We're sure what the court will do. It shall properly assess all cases in accordance with Article 79. We have no doubt or fear. It's a different matter. The issue is why you remove such a field from the lawmaker and tell him that he will not go to Article 79 and he will not see in the measure but assessments that may be to the strictest or most urgent. This is not how criminal justice is awarded. This is our main objection. And because you adopt this in all cases where your legislation is strict, you say only death penalty and you are proud of it. You say that you are listening to the whole world, but you are not listening to the Greek community, unfortunately, and you will find it in front of you. Do you know why? Why don't you make us say in the end that we're very proud of why you're reinstated the death penalty, as Mr. Hetas might want. We're not here, and you're not here. I'm sure of that. We can't go to such a conversation. Today you're saying life and tomorrow I don't know what he's going to do, because the good judge is the strict judge, a good politician is the one who comes out on television and beats his opponent because he dares to say that there may be legal reasoning. That's not how society goes ahead, unfortunately. He goes back with steps huge and goes before 1950. And I said that a society that once dares to go to the issue of criminal justice behind the 1950 Century report will be a self-destructive option that will sweep not only the legal culture but also the culture of our country. In any case, you insist. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall end with two things, Mr President, so that I can present them in the Minutes. Firstly, I find the amendment on the posting of an active judge in the office of the Vice-President of the Government which does not produce legislative work unthinkable. Keep it in mind: ‘It does not have a piece of legislative work’. You do it. Anger is the reaction of the Association of Prosecutors. Secondly, by telling you before that, I adopt the view of the Association of Greek Criminals, which is a very conservative legal form of criminalists in Greece, but are obsessed with the basic principles and rules for the award of criminal justice and generally judges your draft law "documentaryly problematic and forensic politically unspeakable". Hold it. I go to Mrs. Symnonidou who wrote an article in "EFSA" 15 days ago. He tells you one, two, three, five, ten and he mentions to you - listen, Mr. KINAL's representative, who is a fighting lawyer - that Germany, with five ratings in the murder, has no single sentence anywhere on any offence in its Criminal Code, which 99% copy was the 1950 Penal Code. There's no offense with a sentence. There is only a framework of penalties. And it has recently been confirmed and confirmed by the Constitutional Court of Karlsruhe. Legislative and executive power is not allowed when it brings bills to the German Parliament to introduce criminal law with a penalty. The judge must have a penalty for giving a fair sentence, neither strict nor mild. We are positively listening to the provisions on incapacity, very positive, but I would like in the same way, Minister, to hear a positive speech from you. Mr. Karagunis mentioned two crimes before. Both are feminine. I and Mr. Blondopoulos have put together an amendment. In fact, her reasoning is mine. I think I appreciated it and insisted on it as a criminal starting point, and I would like to hear a positive speech from you about it. It is not possible for your rapporteur himself to refer to cases of femininity and not to place the executive power, the government. You have to do it now. It is a requirement of Greek society. Today the "GUARDIAN" on its first page is dedicated to feminine murders in Greece. I put it to the Minutes, and I think it would be great not to solve it now, because it is urgent. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned post, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Secondly, I shall close with Article 272. You filed a felony in November 2019 and you come back and remodel it. I believe that you are remodeling it because you have seen the case law that says "the occupation of molotov cannot pose a risk to life and things", an errand 16/2020 of the Piraeus Maritime Court. It says that molotovs are not an arson mechanism in no way. I'm putting this in the Minutes too. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Spyridon Lappas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] So we'll always slide into an extreme rigidity. Our kids who will have a meeting tomorrow and will be double with another who will bring something... Hetas doesn't want the third paragraph. You are doing very well and you are bringing it in the third paragraph, but the further stricterization of a strict provision already in force in November, I think, has no reason to say. And by taking the paperwork to leave, I'd like to tell you that I had a scientific love, Mr. Minister, in my life, John Manoledakis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u115	Let's finish here, because we might hear about other lovers along the way...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u116	And that is why I will close with a phrase and an urge by Mr Manoledakis just before he leaves the committee's life. "Let us not let the walls of repression rise for the sake of a polluting security and blow the air of freedom. We must pay particular attention to this, to the erosion of the humanitarian character and to the diversion of the punishing model of the Criminal Law gradually becomes sourcing. However, no lawyer will be justified now or in the future to say: but I have never heard a Croton of builders or sound, I have never been unaware of being shut down from the world," obviously referring to the poem of Kavafis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u117	Ladies and gentlemen, the Standing Committee on Educational Affairs presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Culture and Sport: "Following the code of legislation on the protection of antiquities and the cultural heritage in general" We are now giving the floor to the Minister of Justice to complete the debate on the draft law. Here you go, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u118	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, in two days' discussion, some seventy colleagues have spoken, all the rapporteurs and the special speakers of the parties, the parliamentary representatives and I think that, as Mr Lappas has just pointed out, we have been able to cross-check our arguments for a week, but above all to reach concrete guidelines and specific assumptions. If I had to make a personal statement, it is that, apart from a few speakers, most of the Confrontation colleagues who were at this Step did not comment on the substance of the bill, they were caught by certain specific articles that might have been the issues of any controversy without, however, seeing the core of the proposals, the changes of the Criminal Code which we will shortly be voting on and will become the law of the Greek state. If you want, the saddest thing is that we have lost another chance of understanding. That's my opinion. Because a Criminal Code, even if there are ideological differences, allows for points of convergence and agreement between parties to be found. For example, I have not heard the positive view of specific regulations which obviously severeen penalties for offences which we all know need to be dealt with with with a greater, wider range of penalties. Where is the sensitivity, ladies and gentlemen, of the opposition parties on issues relating to disability? How many of you have referred to this? Can't you see that it's a Criminal Code dealing with all the issues relating to violation of child offenses? Why, really, didn't you come to say 'bravo' to the government who sees an issue and regulates it, which was unregulated, was it empty? Some arrangements didn't even exist. Some, unfortunately, had been downgraded in terms of the form of the offence by voting in favour of the previous Criminal Code. Where are the issues of ‘Me Too’? When they had happened and there was publicity, you all came and said why there is no welfare on the part of the Greek state and why we do not legislate as soon as possible. Now that we are legislating in an adequate legal framework, where, in any case, I will not say the reward - at least the public deposit of your own opinion. There were issues of forest arson throughout the summer, and then we were all indicted that there was - I would say - a loose framework of penalties. Now that there is a felony in the context of the arson punishments - it is a felony - why don't you come and say 'bravo' to the government, which, not only on an issue that can concern us with in the sense of natural destruction in itself, but also on an issue that has a particular environmental interest, we create new data and we are trying to deal with it? You know, ladies and gentlemen? I understand why each one of us can show itself as the only reason for political confrontation and I understand it. However, there are some issues and I have always believed that the area of justice offers such opportunities that at least one might agree on self-evident. It is obviously no excuse that I want stricter penalties, and that is why I do not vote for the strictening of penalties, on the other hand, it is an excuse that I have a disagreement in 191 or in one or two other articles in the bill, and that is why it is suddenly a bill of fragmentation, it does not deal with reality and it is not coherent. Really, who claimed? I'm the one who claimed that the Criminal Code itself is dealing with all the issue concerning the penitentiary system? Who did this? From the start, I am not one of those who have put forward the view that it is a step, but at the same time, other steps must be taken at many other levels by reforming the penitentiary code, which is at the door with the strengthening of social, prosperous structures, by upgrading the penitentiary stores, which you know very well that the construction of new penitentiary stores in Greece has been going on in the last few years. Who refused all this to come to Vima and say that it is not a reason to vote in favour of this Criminal Code - in itself, the Criminal Code - why did not everything else happen? But if we do not do something, you realize that it is in no way a case to achieve what we want as a state. What do we want to achieve? To have a true rule of law, which, of course, keeps the basic principles of legal science, but at the same time also to make the citizen feel safe. There was a strong - I would say - support for the view that the Criminal Code is only a product of scientific opinion. It's not just a product of scientific opinion. They were many of the colleagues, Mr Lappa, who came and criticised, in any case, the bill saying that it is not exactly what scientific opinion defends or believes. That is not all, ladies and gentlemen. I do not want to reintroduce the same debate, which we have made so many times that justice is obviously a place with specific stakeholders, but at the end of the day it concerns the Greek citizen himself and the Greek society. It's not about legal science alone. And this one needs to be seen as a whole, and we need to bring together opinions, we need to see too many things. I was hearing some colleagues speak earlier and say that with this Criminal Code we are actually trying or bringing about a criminal populism. Do you really believe that? Can you believe that? Is the proposal on the current Criminal Code a product of criminal populism? Not you, Mr Lappa, have not said so, but some of your colleagues have said so, and indeed from SYRIZA. The question is, however, whether one can accept such views. And you want me to tell you one more thing? I respect the fact that there were huge personalities of legal science, to which you referred earlier and to all of us it is well known that they have contributed substantially to the reform of the Criminal Law in this respect in our country, creating a tendency and a philosophy, which is very close to European philosophy. But the world is changing. Other people are today, other reality, other incidents. There are some people who have worked on the night for two years and are chosen, serious, recognised university professors, Deputy Prosecutors of the Ice Bay, Prosecutors' Prosecutors, Prosecutors' Prosecutors. They are people who have tried very hard to give us an excellent and coherent legal text, which does not actually change the philosophy of the existing Criminal Code, because that is what this is about. If you sit down and see it, philosophy doesn't change. The range of penalties, of course, changes to specific offences, but philosophy does not change. And that is what the President of the Commission, Professor Lampros Margaritis, former Deputy Prosecutor of the Ice Bay, Mr Vourliotis, has done with great effort, four more university professors, people whom I thank publicly, as I thank my colleagues at the Ministry of Justice. The Criminal Code, the changes to the Criminal Code, the debate over which it is now being concluded, ladies and gentlemen, is the thirteenth bill of the Ministry of Justice in these two and a half years. I don't hide it to you that it's the hardest. It was the most difficult bill, which we had to draw up with a word - word and provision - a provision. It had nothing to do with his difficulty over the difficulty of all previous bills. And what do we actually achieve? We are in fact keeping the philosophy that already exists about a coherent, comprehensive text that has no scattered provisions. We did the same with the Court of Auditors' procedural procedure regardless of whether you voted or did not vote by giving rise to different objections, reasons or, in any case, objections. The question, however, is that here we have a particular philosophy, which I imagine science accepts, but much more so, a modern European state must adopt. I think that, with the conclusion of the debate and its vote shortly, we will hand over to the judiciary a truly modern and fair Criminal Code, which, on the one hand, will not enable Greek citizens to feel that there is a state that supports the rule of law, and that justice will act proportionately, through the rules that must govern a democratic state and, more so, through a logic which, to a very large extent, must be adopted by the judiciary itself, and, more so, by the Greek society itself. These are issues and issues which each of us think should not be seen differently. That's my opinion. And I am really sorry that the missed opportunities you referred to, Mr Heta, in your previous speech are probably not about me, but about this Chamber, about the political parties, concern the way we approach certain issues, because the micro-political - let me, in and out of introductory terms, about the term - 'logue' - is the one that dominates when we come to vote on a bill that has its real importance and importance. It would not be me, Mr Lappa, who would question the gravity of the Criminal Code and I would not do anything honestly that could create, if you like, another approach to this matter. On the other hand, you have seen that even proposals which have been tabled by you - I said this earlier, Mrs Adamopoulos, and I have referred to you personally - even to issues which exist, are heard or spoken either in the committee responsible or in plenary are matters which we are dealing with seriously. And when we see there's something we need to see, we need to change it, we change it and we don't stick to one position. And we've proved it many times, almost in all the bills that we've passed from the Ministry of Justice, thereby giving us the real opportunity to come to an agreement on some issues. Can we come up with everything? No, we can't. There is a different ideological view, but there are issues - and I personally consider that there are many, especially I repeat in the field of justice - where we can agree. I would like to make a few comments on either amendments or legislative improvements. First of all, the amendment tabled by my colleagues on behalf of the SYRIZA. You know very well that we have removed by means of a specific provision the divorce of the sentence, that is, there is no longer a temporary sentence of ten years or life sentence for homicide, which relates to a series of heinous crimes directed against minors. This is something that demonstrates our unequivocal, clear and absolute conviction of these crimes, which are insulting the highest legal good of life and inadmissibility, so that they are punished with a sentence, life imprisonment. Manslaughter is now punished with a sentence called life imprisonment. Evidently the feminine homicide, which is homicide, currently has maximum sentences, life imprisonment. The fact that it is a social phenomenon which has dealt with us and which is obviously unable to have a place in a modern European democratic state is something that cannot be called into question at all. But let us see what is happening in Europe as a whole. Three countries have a special provision for feminine murder, of course with a different penalty. These countries are Bulgaria, Finland and Lithuania. Germany and Austria standardise this distinction in the context of sex crime, but without any difference of penalty. Therefore, the majority of European countries do not anticipate feminism as a peculiar crime. But besides all that, I want to be honest with you. We anticipate - and I said it earlier - life imprisonment as the only punishment for the crime of homicide, regardless of sex. This is where I'm going to give a parentheses. Don't you want the life imprisonment for the feminine murder, Mr. Lappa? You should say that. Do you want a spasm in feminine? Because we need to score a little, in any case, our arguments according to what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u119	It's our proposal, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u120	I say this because you see that for this, I would say, a felony involving homicide, and so in gypsy, we currently have the greatest sentences and which is without divorce, it is unique, it is life. Resent again. Refrigerants know they're recognized. I don't have to repeat them anyway. However, ladies and gentlemen, because it is indeed a subject which is obviously very intense, that is, racial violence and the phenomena of racial violence, it is an issue that obviously concerns modern society, but it may also have deep roots, and this must also be dealt with olympicly, I have told you of the setting up of a committee to re-establish the framework of all offences relating to domestic violence. What I can tell you is that this will be a matter that we will see, and I say it with all my honesty. It is an issue which we are indeed concerned about, and we do see that it takes an area which - I repeat - affects both the human dignity and the role of women, which in no case can be the victim of such phenomena and of such behaviour and is much more affected by any modern society. So what I can tell you at the moment is that it is a matter which, in the next legislative committee, we will see, in relation to whether we can or should have a specific reference. After all, you saw that even at the hearing of the bodies the view was not clear even of the representatives of this area and of that movement. I would also like to say to you that, with the legal improvement in Article 169a' of the Criminal Code, the violation of a court ruling which imposes a ban on access to and communication between persons is criminalised. The most common fundamental decision to ensure the protection of victims of domestic violence is this particular case, and I want you to know that it concerns this issue. There was no criminality about her violation. We are introducing it today and we are committed to moving in this direction so that women can stop being victims of such behaviour. I make it clear that it is known in every direction. I would also like to respond to a comment on civil law, the special court. Mr. Xanthopoulou mentioned it earlier. Ladies and gentlemen, you lawyers in particular need to know that the exclusion of the passiveness from the category support is a breach in the criminal system, but also in international standards, which is provided for by a specific directive of the European Parliament. All in all, the European Parliament and the Council of Europe recognise the right of the passor to stand in support of the accusation and seek to protect the victim and the reaction of this legal order against any crime. It is an adaptation to European legislation. So we are not talking about anything at all. Finally, I will make a comment again because Mr Xanthopoulou insisted that with 47, in spite of the false statement, we were supposed to have something in mind. I say this because, like Mr Xanthopoulou and you, Mr Lappa, should be aware that this deletion did not have any influence and that it was clearly overlooked. For when other similar and heavier offences, such as false persecution and slandering, remained in the text, it was obviously not a matter of feasibility, and I think that is clear. It is a pity that the opposition really insists. I understand that he has to find a reason on matters which, in fact, do not have and do not exist in reality. There are legislative improvements - I do not know if you had the time to see them all - which, in fact, I think they will give the opportunity to deal with many small issues, which were related to the exercise of domestic violence, but of course to other issues that had their own say, if you want them to be dealt with in a particular time. To disperse false news, I think we've said too much about 191. I do not need to reread the Convention on Human Rights nor do I need to tell you that, as you can feel the threat of being violated - which is not being violated - freedom of speech for a provision which is not a new entrant but which has been in place since the early 1950s, another so violates the citizen's right to genuine information or, if you like, how to prevent a false briefing that may lead to harm to him, to harm to himself, to harm to his health. We must all stand together against a phenomenon that we know very well that it has cost human lives and there is no - I make it clear once again - not the intention of declaring freedom of expression, but much more absolutely no reason, since the final judge - we know it very well - is the Greek judge. We must have confidence in the judicial officers, ladies and gentlemen. I personally, although I do not come from the judiciary or judiciary, have real confidence in the role and functioning of judicial officers and I really believe that with a great deal of struggle and a great effort they are doing. Of course, there may be different views, but each of us is judged on where and how it is placed at specific times. Finally, a comment on the amendment on the possession of explosives or arson materials. There is indeed an increase in desecration and in arson mechanisms, materials or bombs, when there is a purpose of harming things or danger to humans. You want us to keep hiding behind our finger? And it is obviously not about lighters that your parliamentary representative, Mrs Konnakas, spoke about, you know that very well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u121	But that's not what it says.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u122	I'm sorry?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u123	He doesn't say about the cause. I wish he would.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u124	Mr Lappa, the possession of these explosive materials is clear that it will now be punished by a felony when it takes place at public meetings or in large quantities. The case of the police locating dozens of, I would say, arson mechanisms in a house and cannot be punished by the one who had them - why did he have them - is it not a matter that should be of concern to us? I think there are some things we've matured enough for all of us to know what's going on and what's not. If some people consider freedom of expression to carry a molotov in their purse, I am very sorry, there is also a different view of society throughout the world. We all need to understand that we are talking about human safety, civil security, police security, because we need to see all this. Of course, it may be legitimate to protest or express opposition, but this must not be accompanied by such actions and actions. I repeat, I think we have all matured enough for us not to have a different view. And I say this because, under no circumstances can people in their intention to cause a risk to human lives be covered. That is the only question and nothing more than that. I conclude by saying that the vote in favour of the changes to the Criminal Code will give us the opportunity from the next day to see how it can operate through another framework, which I personally believe - as I said earlier - the consistency and continuity with the already existing Criminal Code will give the opportunity to the Greek society to feel a great deal of security. We are not of the opinion that when someone has to enter your house to rob it, you have to do what you sleep - that I make it clear - nor are we of the opinion that, depending on which side you are, it is good or bad to hold or cast molotov. These are clear things and we must at some point send out a message of seriousness and responsibility to the entire Greek society, to convince the Greek citizens that we are doing everything possible to shield justice by means of codes, in this case the Criminal Code, which will protect them and create a sense of security and, finally, it will defend all those who, for different reasons, are in the position of the victim. I want to thank all my colleagues once again at the Ministry of Justice, the State Secretary - it was a huge contribution to the drafting of the bill on the changes to the Criminal Code - the prosecutors, the judicial officers, all my partners. It was an almost two-year-old attempt, which was not made in the clipboard, as some claimed here, neither was it because there was the psychology of the moment or the burden of publicity for some facts. I think how we ran, shaping the specific provisions in relation to when some events happened is the greatest proof that we did not legislate on psychology at the moment, but under the burden of responsibility for a legislator who wants to protect society and the citizens. And I think that we will have a chance and see it and see it from tomorrow, from the next day. And of course, here we are to judge anything, and if anything of this has not worked in the direction in which it should or will be judged right, in a second future time, to consider it all together and judge any next option. However, once again I think that we have had the opportunity to have a serious debate, regardless of the disagreement and the diversity of views. I think it was the most serious conversation that took place in a bill from the Ministry of Justice since I personally am in the place of the Minister of Justice. All views, I repeat, regardless of whether we are seeing them differently, had a basis of documentation and a reasonable thought, of course, beyond some exceptions that I have spoken about at the outset. I want to thank all my colleagues. I hope that we can contribute in this way to the immunisation of justice in a direction which, I repeat, will send a firm signal to the entire Greek society. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u125	Thank you, Mr. Minister. The debate on the principle, articles and amendments of the draft law of the Ministry of Justice is closed: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and other urgent provisions’. We are entering the vote on the principle, the articles, the amendments and the whole of them and they will be voted on separately. I would like to point out that the vote includes the beginning of the bill, a hundred seventy-two articles, seven amendments, the farewell article, and the whole bill. Each time on the screen they appear as four articles for vote. To vote and the rest, you need to roll the touch screen. At the top right of the screen the number of articles left to vote is shown each time. And, of course, you must make sure that you have passed all the articles, the amendments, the farewell article and the whole bill. After your vote has been registered, you may check it or even revise it until the end of the vote. For any problem or question, please contact the Bureau so that the officials concerned can assist you. I would ask that the electronic voting system be opened.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u126	Ladies and gentlemen, since you have completed the vote, I would ask that the electronic voting system be closed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u127	The positions of the parties, as reflected in the vote on the electronic system, are recorded in the minutes of today's sitting and are as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u128	Consequently, the draft law of the Ministry of Justice: ‘Amendments to the Criminal Code and the Code of Criminal Procedure and other urgent provisions’ was accepted by a majority, in a single debate on the articles and the whole principle, and is as follows:
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u129	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to approve the Minutes as a whole.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u130	The House therefore granted the authorisation requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-11-11-S1-commons.u131	With the agreement of the House at 17.44 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Friday, 12 November 2021, at 10.30 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a special agenda: discussion and decision in accordance with Rules 68(2). 2 of the Constitution and 144(5)(b) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, on the proposal made by the President of the Radical Left Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras and the Members of the Group's Parliament's Parliament's Committee of Inquiry, on the investigation of public opinion-management policy operation, the aspiration of institutions and the destruction of public money.
