ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 7-10-2021, the minutes of its Fourth Meeting of Thursday, 7 October 2021, with regard to the vote on the whole draft law: ‘Statute of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the French Republic establishing a strategic partnership for defence and security cooperation’.]] I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by Mr Leonidas Stoltides, MP for the second of Thessaloniki, the following:]] MANUFACTURING AUTHORISATION HOLDERS RESPONSIBLE FOR BATCH [[To enter page 1a]] B. REQUESTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS Before we move on to the debate on today's topical and urgent question report, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday 11 October 2021, which reads as follows: ‘A. (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. Mr Athanasios Davakis, Member of the Commission. — (EL) Mr President, Mr Athanasios Davakis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject of 'Recommendation of a Technical Council of the Ministry of Education'. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 11/4-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexandros - Christou Ayloniti to the Minister of Health, on "Direct need to strengthen the EKAV Corfu". 3. The question raised by Mr Dimitrios Biagis, MP of the Change Movement to the Minister of Tourism, dated 12/4-10-2021, on "Serious Risk of suspension of the operation of IKK Tourism Corfu". 4. The question by No 44-10-2021 of the Greek Communist Party MP, Mr. Ioannis Delis, Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Fastoid Fortification in the 1st and 2nd PASAL Stavroupolis of Thessaloniki". 5. The question under number 27/4-10-2021 by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "Anachronistic exclusion of the Vlachs' Science Agency from the Ministry of Culture". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The question by number 13/4-10-2021, by Member of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "Application to the competent services of the European Union for the recognition of adverse weather phenomena in 2021 and for Community support for the agricultural income of the affected producers". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The 20/4-10-2021 topical question by MP B1'North Athens Section of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Shipping and Island Policy, entitled 'Small Border Islands'. 3. The question asked by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakkas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: “At the immediate treatment of the operating problems of the Ikaria Hospital and the other health structures of the EU. Ikaria-Fortress." 4. The 28/4-10-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Nicro & Styra Evia: Aiolic in archaeological sites". 5. The 16/4-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA's MP Johns - Progressive Alliance Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Thousands of gaps in Parallel Support". 6. The question under number 30/4-10-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens, Mera25 Mr Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Migration and Asylum, on the subject: "Continuance to the anti-European policy of the government with the disappearance of refugees". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 23/4-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance Mr.Theodoras Jakris to the Minister of Foreign Affairs, on the subject: "The Hellenic Investment and External Trade SA - Enterprise Greece has been left to its fate". 8. The 24/4-10-2021 topical question by SYRIZA MP Johns - Progressive Alliance Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Extension of movements of medical personnel from Health Centers to Hospitals". Ladies and gentlemen, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs the House that the current questions to be discussed today are as follows: Question No 35/4-10-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Spyridonas-Adoni Georgiadis. Question No 31/4-10-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Civil Protection, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos. Question No 3/4-10-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of the Interior, Mr Stylianos Pechas. Question No 5/4-10-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglou. Questions Nos 18/4-10-21, 25/4-10-2021, 32/4-10-21 and 33/4-10-2021 will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. Question No 34-10-21 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, George Karayannis. So we begin with our fourth question under number 3/4-10-2021, first question by MP II of the Communist Party of Greece Mr Leonida Stoltides to the Minister of the Interior, on the subject: "Having the 1st High School and the 2nd High School of the Municipality of Lagada in the Regional Unity (PE) of Thessaloniki". Mr. Stoltides, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A few days, Minister, before the beginning of the school year the parents, the five hundred seventy students and the teachers of the 1st High School and the 2nd High School of the Municipality of Lagada of Thessaloniki were found homeless. The municipality of Lagada announced that the home school building is inappropriate, as it was found dangerous and requires extensive repairs. The study, prepared by the "Thessaloniki Development Majority S.A.", under which this school building is faced with a serious problem of stagnation, humidity, detachment of groups was delivered to the municipality at the end of August, leaving virtually unexploited the period during which the school buildings were licensed by students and the courses were made remotely due to the pandemic, i.e. a long period of time. The temporary solution given by the merger of five teaching hours to three in the 1st and 2nd High School of Lagada, in order to remove the reactions created after the inappropriateness of the buildings, is the obvious deterioration of the students' studies of Lagada by literally subordinating them into children 2, while a solution is considered to be the future establishment of a prefecture until the study of the "Grand of Urban Thessaloniki S.A." is finalized and the school building is restored. At the same time, even if there was no problem with the risk of the school building, the shortages of teachers for the operation of the 1st and 2nd High Schools of the Municipality of Lagada are great. For example, at the 1st High School the gaps in hours are twenty-three in technology, four in English, four gymnastics, two economists, and even though it was a support centre for six schools in the region as a whole, it will not work, as will the integration section. According to this, Minister, do you ask yourself what the government will do, firstly, to find the right place for the safe housing and operation of the 1st and 2nd High School of Lagada until all the work on the school building is completed and their pupils and teachers return to it, to become permanent recruitments of teachers of all specialties so that students can learn all the courses and material? The third question has been covered, so I'm not putting it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr. Stoltides. Mr Stylianos Petsas has the floor for his own protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mr. Stoltides, for the question. I believe that one of the state's most basic obligations is to provide natural school accommodation to our children and secure travel to and from school. And I think we all agree. That is why we are building on the improvement of school buildings, we are focusing on the building of young people, the elimination of any dangerous outbreaks that may exist in courtyards or in schools, and we are focusing on the safe movement of students. We have also achieved this through financial instruments that we offer to the municipalities and regions, as I shall refer to next. Now, with regard to the specific issues that you raised for the two high schools, I personally understand both the anxiety and the problem of the parents of the students in these schools. I will reply to you about the responsibilities of the Ministry of Interior and the funding we offer to the municipality for improving the infrastructures of primary and secondary education. The Municipality of Lagada has been awarded a grant of EUR 566,460 to cover project and investment costs through the central independent resources of the year 2021. Secondly, especially for the repair and maintenance of school buildings, an amount of EUR 123,000 has been allocated to the municipality for 2021. Thirdly, the municipality’s ‘PHILADIMOS II’ aid programme has been financed with an amount of EUR 221,100 for the repair, maintenance of school buildings and intangible areas. And, fourthly, in the context of the AT011 call of the Development Programme "ANITOS TRITIS" entitled "Conservation of municipal open sports spaces, school units, accessibility of SMEs" has submitted the proposal for action for critical infrastructures in need of earthquake protection by the Municipality of Lagada budget 29.843 euros, which is at the stage of the evaluation. Therefore, there are financial instruments, financing to the municipality is available and, if further aid is requested, it will be provided as far as possible. Now for the other issues relating to the temporary solution given up to the full restoration of the school building for the safe housing of students, I am presenting in practically the answers from the relevant bodies of the Municipality of Lagada, the Region of Central Macedonia and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. I would like to mention that according to these documents, the adoption of the school's provisional working hours is for one month after the agreement of the Parents and Women's Association, the Teachers' Associations and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs. The special prefabricated rooms are expected to reach the municipality of October, i.e. directly. I would like here to highlight the very high demand that exists and the very great needs that exist, unfortunately because of the earthquake in Crete. All students are served to transfer them to school from the vehicles secured by the Region of Central Macedonia, as I understand that you have also noted in your prototype. The restoration of the building certainly takes more time, but I assure you that we will also be following it very closely until a definitive solution is given. On the part of the Ministry of Interior, we are trying, with the powers we have, to help the municipalities. We are in constant contact with them so that any municipality needs the support of the Ministry, as part of its capabilities, to receive it. And because I mentioned before the earthquakes involving the municipalities affected in Crete, I would like to say to you that when we complete the record of the losses under way, we are also ready to support them in cooperation with the other competent authorities of the state. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Stoltides has the floor for his dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I'm getting the following evidence from your reports: there's a lot of demand because of the earthquakes. I hope the government does not say and there is a question of controversy about where they are going. Obviously, we're talking about meeting all the needs that have been submitted from here and there. Technical approach I cannot do to say if it is sufficient to cover the needs and earthquake and all that you have put in. But here, Minister, it must be taken into account that the problem is a long time. There has been since 2013 and has been highlighted by associations of parents, teachers, directorates and the responsibilities of all governments are serious and time-consuming, because obviously in such a building children were trained and their own physical integrity was questioned when such conditions exist. Of course, the priorities of all governments were different. After two years of COVID, you can see that the educational process has gone back objectively and now essentially, with a course of five to three hours and a lack of teachers, you realize that this is a very serious blow to the children of the families of the region there and we cannot in any case talk about a coexistence of knowledge and education. That thing doesn't mean. In our opinion, the development of education, with all modern infrastructures, teachers and access to all scientific knowledge, is something that children can actually offer to the country, the economy and society as a whole. It is not progress, Minister, because here we must confront it, because this is how it is put into government policy - the billions of euros for weapons systems, which are for imperialist raids against other countries through alliances and serving business groups. It is not progressing to endless billions of euros and the Recovery Fund to business groups, which lead our country to a deeper and deeper dependence, such as the green growth that has already been - before it starts - putting our people into energy poverty. And here we have to say, Minister, because it is very important, whose money, the billions, are spent from here and there. These are the people's strata, the farmers in the Lagada region, the self-employed, the small businessmen and the workers, who have been fermented by wild taxation. They have, in other words, paid hundreds of times as much for their children's schools. We also need to mention the inauguration figurations in Damasy, Larissa - you remember - which we think are very revealing about where science and technology have arrived. A whole school was demolished and fully rebuilt within a month. Who did this? The business group did not do it. The business group is gaining. The scientists, the engineers, the workers. And we think there is a great deal of unemployment in the construction sector. There are engineers, i.e. there are all the physical infrastructures and the inspiring human resources to solve these problems too quickly. We also insist that this should be done in this particular case. This must be made clearer, because there is a big, serious issue of concern: when exactly will we get in - because we are now in the early October - the prototypes so that it will not be wasted an hour? That's the one, the man. When will the new plan for reconstruction begin, do we call the full construction of a new school complex? However, we will also call on the people of the region to show no tolerance to the government's 'expectation', because this obviously leads - as the evidence shows - to the destruction of their children and to claim the future that really belongs to their children. And of course we as a Communist Party will be in this battle on their side. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u8	And we thank Mr. Stoltides. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, on the basis of Mr Stoltides' general position, there is no question of the internal legal order unless we have ensured the integrity of our country, the protection of sovereignty and sovereign rights. So I see no competition between the attempt to strengthen the country's deterrent power and, on the other hand, to strengthen all the necessary social infrastructure, including, of course, our school units. I would also refer you to the Prime Minister's report yesterday in this Chamber that the country in the 21st century may combine both. So what I would like to say about the specific issue you raise in your question from there on is that we really have the possibility at the moment, with the financial instruments we have said before, to move to those necessary for safe school accommodation. The next Friday, 15th of the month, I will be in the Municipality of Lagada, where I will meet with the mayor. We have discussed exactly what we can do to speed up this process and I am sure we will find a solution for a permanent solution to the problem, which, as you have said, is coming over decades ago. We believe that we will soon have a lasting solution. As regards the temporary measure you said, we are in contact with the mayor and the "Building Infrastructures". Already yesterday, in communications from the Ministry's services and my partners with the mayor, we realized that it is a matter of days and we will do everything we can to resolve this. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u10	We thank the Minister, too. We move to the fifth, with number 31/4-10-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "Extended police violence against the citizens of Tinos". Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you have said that you are in favour of legality, compliance with the law and the application of the law. We see in Tino that the law does not apply and citizens try to defend the legislation that protects the monuments of their country and that the police do not intervene. I am tabling the report of an engineer who describes all the illegality reported to the police and who has never reacted. We had an illegal router crossing. Hold on an hour. Convicted to the police before it happened. Illegal placement on municipal metal sheet streets without permission. It lasted three days. There had been a complaint with the police while they were stationed. This leads to the destruction of the xerolithic structure protected by law. We also had an illegal traffic of heavy goods vehicles outside hours and permits. The police had been informed. Illegal parking after permit to pass three trucks, trucks carrying wind turbines. One of them had no license plate. And that was denounced to the police. They didn't do anything. We're damaged on the municipal road outside the monument of Upper Sterna. We have transport companies, after banning traffic, blocking the city road for half an hour, which blocked the entire movement of the citizens of Tinos. Illegal towing of a platform at a slope of 45 degrees, and perhaps the most impressive was when the Town sealed a field where illegally installed contractor wind turbines. The police went and cleared it up, instead of imposing a self-defense! He cleared the field that the Town had sealed to do the contractor's work and then arrested the workers, after finishing the work and after they had taken what they wanted from this field. These are all the complaints we have from the movement. It is also written in the text I table in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Kriton - Ilias Arsenis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] At the same time, the Tinos citizens are asking you to protect their own businesses. Instead, when the island is flooded by visitors in the summer, there is never any reinforcement of the police and port forces, as the entrepreneurs demand, but the businessmen themselves are eating wood to protect a private person who seems, of all these documents, to be carrying out a series of illegal acts. They defend the island and the law and they eat wood and at the same time the police, when they have to defend their own business and life, are never there. There's also a complaint about a folding club, which I'm asking you to tell us exactly what has happened. And tell us when we're finally getting signals on the cops. It is your commitment, a commitment of all previous leaders and this government. You can tell us when it will be implemented, when legality will also apply to the police.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u12	Thank you, Mr Arsenis. The Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Panagiotis Theodorikos, has the floor for his protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u13	Mr. President, are we wearing a mask from here or not? What's predicted? Because the space is empty, that's what I'm saying.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u14	No, since there's no one else in two or three meters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u15	The Chamber is allowed to do so today, because there is an appropriate distance, as the Vice-President and a doctor, a pneumonologist, is saying. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u16	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much, because this is the first question I am called upon to answer, and what I shall say is obviously related to the question itself, but also to the general question. The Greek police must function, and operate, within the framework of the Constitution and democratic principles, and that is why they must be, and are, the guarantor of citizens' freedoms. It must serve society consistently, to be effective against crime, to be friendly to the citizen, to every legitimate activity of citizens. It has to be and it is. Every time the Greek Police assumes the responsibility assigned to it by the state for the appropriate measures required to protect the public order and the security of all citizens, for the application of the laws, always informing the competent prosecutors, and it is the Greek Police who puts outside the body of anyone who violates all these rules. As a government, we're beside the cops. We're next to the EL.S.A., endless in the application of these principles. And in our own philosophy and practice there are no problems getting under the carpet or behind the curtains. We are responding with evidence to every question, with respect for opposition and citizens' complaints, loyal to the values of transparency and democratic social control. I would therefore like to clarify a few of the points raised by my colleague in his question. The evidence is obviously documented by the services of the Greek Police and the Ministry of Civil Protection. The company "ENERGYIKI KYKLADON EPE" did do legal work on the island of Tinos on the installation of wind turbines and asked the Greek Police to assist in the completion of this work, as it had submitted a request through its legal representative to the Police Department of Tinos on 17 September. The Greek police responded positively to this request. The Cyclades Security Directorate has considered that for this period the police department should be strengthened, which was made with a Crime Prevention and Repression Team, eight men, and eight police officers from other agencies. The events to which you refer, Mr Colleague, have taken place at night, midnight to dawn, on 22nd to 23rd of the month. The information I have is that the vehicles that the wind turbines carried for wind turbines, which were indeed accompanied by the police force that was legally carrying out this mission, interrupted their movement, as they were in front of fifty IX cars with about eighty people, which prevented the movement of cars and the effort to cross for the purpose we said. The picture I have is that it lasted about two and a half hours. During this period, despite the urges of the police department commander to leave the protesters, this was not accepted, it was not possible. The image I have is that he has been injured in the incidents that took place and the police commander himself, as well as that on the part of the assembled parties there has been no lawsuit against anyone on these events, at least until 24 September. Of course there was a controversy between the police forces and the specific gatherings, but I would like to point out that they operated illegally. In any case, in order to investigate aspects of everything you said, a preliminary exam has been ordered by the Directorate of the Aegean Police, which has been entrusted to a senior officer of the Second Dodecanese Police Directorate, and certainly as soon as it has been completed there will be information from the Hellenic Police Headquarters and, of course, from the administrative authority of the Citizens' Co-ordinator within the framework of its responsibilities as National Mechanism for Investigation of Successions. As far as the aspects of the questions are concerned, therefore, the administrative examination is being investigated. As to the substance of your question, what I want to say is that the police act on the basis of orders, respect the lawfulness, and act repressively, when there are citizens who do not respect the law and legally block scheduled tasks, as has happened in the case of Tinos. As far as the general question you have asked me is concerned, I think it is understood by the introduction of my answer that this spirit and that philosophy are leading the action of the Greek police, and it goes without saying that the police themselves as guardians of law enforcement must and must act on the basis of legality. This is a time-consuming principle, which we all have to observe.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Arseni, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u18	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, it would be interesting to answer for the discrepancies of the police officers they are trying. It's a police decision, which has never been implemented. It is, in fact, a decision that the current State Secretary, Mr Economou, had taken as Head of Police. On 14-2-2021 I had put up with time in plenary precisely for the police fines that entered Tinos citizens and were used to intimidate them because they disagree with the winds. At the time, the pretext was to protect public health from the dispersion of COVID, etc. At that time I had brought an element, which is very interesting for your own investigation that you say you are starting, an e-mail to the HQ of the Port House saying that "the situation has escaped from Tino on the part of port and police forces engaged in terrorism, unacceptable today, and creates a negative picture of the government. We are waiting for some of your interventions." It is an e-mail citizen who is probably in your political space in order to further promote the central organs. So we have a full record of the organs of the extreme violence you use against citizens. At the same time, we have to violate the law on seriality. In other words, citizens report documented. If you look at the document I deposited in the minutes, it's got a picture of every violation. And there are obvious violations, because some of them are night photographs forbidden. And you see the work is done. There are these complaints that are documented, with an engineering report now and photographs. The police were informed at every stage. He never acted. What's going on? How is it possible for the police to apply the law on the protection of an investment that says they have been licensed and do not apply the law as regards the rest of the country's legislation, whether it is urban legislation or environmental legislation and so on. Same for the Road Traffic Code. How is it possible that the police, which is called on every summer by local businessmen and the municipality to assist in an island that is 'walking', will not be strengthened and when an investor comes to put on some wind turbines suddenly to help from all sides of the Aegean the police forces? Why this distinction? Why is one important and the other is not? It is also very important to answer the question about the folding club. It's a complaint from the movement's page against wind turbines. It is very important that we hear from you whether you confirm or reject it and what has happened and tell us from New Smyrna and then what measures have been taken and what measures have been taken to prevent the police from using illegally, such as folding clubs and other weapons. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u20	I would repeat that it is self-evident that the Greek Police should first apply the law, because it is the guardian of the application of this law and implements the legality. I repeat that in this particular case the request for assistance to the Greek Police was entirely legitimate, as was the work that was to be done. The police therefore carried out something that was absolutely legitimate. It met in front of the traffic blockage, which was evidently organised because it concerned the reaction to the specific investment activity, which was manifested in an illegal manner. Now, for the rest of the piece, I repeat that there is a preliminary examination in progress. We'll see her findings and certainly the findings couldn't stay secret. They're going to be made public. In particular, with regard to what you said, Mr Colleague, about folding metal clubs, I will check that out. The Greek police don't have such a club. Such clubs have other police officers of all the major Western countries. We have to have a very limited number since 1999. This matter also concerns this case, which is the subject of the audit carried out by the preliminary investigation. But as far as the whole is concerned, I insist. The overall picture of our police is that it operates in the context of legality and is friendly to the citizen. If there have been specific exceptions, they are treated in the way they should. That is the philosophy that guides the action of the police, and here we will also be in the future to see how it is implemented. Because in the end this implementation is the task of all of us who are dealing with this issue and it is the right of control for all citizens and, of course, for the representatives of the people. In future, then, you will be able to see in practice their measures and their effectiveness. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u21	And we thank the Minister. We move to the fourth with number 5/4-10-2021 on the second question of F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larisa of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.George Lamproulis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs on the subject: "To withdraw the illegal and vengeance of the trade unionist, working at the 'PRAKTIKER HELLAS' store in Larissa". Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. The company PRAKTIKER HELLAS proceeded with the illegal and avengement of its employees at the Larissa store. The employee concerned may also be an elected trade unionist in the local branch of the employees' association at the PRAKTIKER and a representative at the General Assembly of the Larissa Law Works Centre. This action comes as a follow-up to the attack carried out by the company in the previous period with the changes in the individual employment contracts of its employees and, of course, went abusively and unilaterally without the worker's consent to a change in his contract and to a change in his specialty, by a salesman and a trader who was, to a seller. In practice, in addition to changing skills, the worker will no longer be part of the regime of heavy and unhealthy people who were from the beginning of his work relationship when he concluded the contract with the company, with the direct consequence of course also of his insurance rights. Because the worker reacted and refused, in our view, to the attack, the operation went ahead with his dismissal. PRAKTIKER's work with this action seeks to impose a climate of terrorism on workplaces, of course, in order to move ahead with its plans to strike workers' rights in business. It naturally follows the well-known method of employers who escalate or when they escalate their attack, trying to hit trade unionists so that other workers don't raise their heads. The question to the Minister is therefore what measures will be taken by the Ministry to immediately withdraw the illegal and avenge of the worker, but also to stop any attempt to prevent workers from being held in criminal court and criminalise trade union activity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Mr. Chacloglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, Mr President. A number of points, Mr Lambroulis, I have not heard them quite well because of the mask. Your question is really timely. It refers to events only last week and, as the Labour Inspectorate has informed us, it has already started the process of monitoring, asking for written explanations from the company and at the same time it has taken all the steps provided for in the legislation on cases such as the one you are referring to. More specifically, chronological events are as follows: On 26 August, the PRAKTIKER HELLAS Workers' Association lodged a complaint with the AAR that the company unilaterally amended individual contracts to two-dimensional employees. Four days later, on August 30, he followed an APRC check at the Larissa branch. The audit found that on 1 July the company amended individual employment contracts to eleven employees with regard to qualification. One of these workers who have changed their dual skills was the trade union worker. Unlike this worker, the rest of the workers accepted the modification of their contracts. On 30 August the worker concerned applied to the Larissa SAR and applied for a work dispute with the undertaking. On 2 September, the company provided the Larissa APRC with the complete elements of individual contracts of employment, as well as the amending contracts and on 8 September the company submitted a memorandum to the APRC stating that the changes to the contracts were made as part of the organisational changes made to its premises. On 23 September, when discussing the case in the Labour Inspectorate, the worker unjustly described the unilateral decision of the employer as having only two operators with a dual qualification and was now to be recruited by the company as one according to the advert which he submitted to the procedure, while, as the worker said, he could cover it himself. For its part, the company, through its lawyer, stated that the worker from the start of the business relationship was carrying out mainly sales tasks, while the assistant operator’s function was initially first and then the clark operator was added in order to be able to use the clark in the very few times that had been required. From 1-7-2021, the company established a new bonus scheme, according to which double ratings were no longer required for the operational needs of the company. It was the company's decision under its management right to employ the worker only on the basis of the seller's specialty and thus to be subject to the sellers' bonus. Mr Lambroulis, the APR was drafted on 20 September by a working paper in which it was justified that the change in the skills of the worker by a salesman - a trader in a seller with what this implies in terms of his insurance cover - you also stressed this - does not have any effect on his wages; it is only for heavy and unhealthy - and his duties are a unilaterally harmful change in his working conditions. In fact, in view of the fact that the company wished to recruit a clark operator, the company made a recommendation to the company to reconsider the above issue in order to bring the employee back to the previous scheme, as foreseen by its individual contract of employment, by employing him with the specificity of the club operator. Otherwise, it recommended that the courts be brought before them as responsible for judging the above legal proceedings. On 1 October - just last Friday, that is - the worker came to the Larissa SAR saying that the company fired him. On the same day the Labour Inspectorate asked the company for written explanations of dismissal. To date, the company has not sent the explanation for dismissal in writing and the RCF expects this to take place in the next few days. These are the facts in this case. As you mention the worker's trade union status, I would like to point out here that the law explicitly states that the employment relationship for legitimate trade union activity is invalid. In addition, our legislation has a number of specific provisions on the protection of workers in their trade union activities and on the exercise of their trade union freedoms and rights. Because I have taken a lot of time, for the actions that the EIA will take in anticipation of the explanations requested by the company, I will refer to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u25	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u26	Thank you, Mr President. The Minister in his protology referred to his history. It is well known, but we have no objection to it being captured yet again or heard. However, the questions referred to in the question remain and I believe in his second language that the Minister should be placed. Now, for the individual worker, who is the secretary of the local branch of the operational association in Larissa of the PRAKTIKER operation, as the workers themselves say, his colleagues were at the forefront of the "PRAKTIKER" employer's employer because he refused exactly the harmful change in his contract. Indeed, the worker, although vindicated - also the history - is mentioned by the Labour Inspectorate on the issue of unilaterally damaging change in the contract, but has been punished by the employer with dismissal. Employees' response to this unacceptable and arbitrary action of the company has given and will give the next period. They didn't bounce their heads, they lifted up both at the local store of the company, as well as pan-Hellenic and mobilisations, strikes, job stops, demanding the re-entry of this worker. Indeed, yesterday, in the context of a new mobilisation, a delegation of workers here in Athens met with a representative of the Ministry, who was content to refer the workers to the courts. In our view, this is not only a situation which has been created not only to the individual worker but also to other workers - I will refer to two, three examples below - mockery and slander. It is clear here that this redundancies at PRAKTIKER are part of the frame of the vengeance which has recently taken place throughout the country, such as the dismissal of a "JUMBO" employee who flew into unemployment to relieve the employer of his action and why he resisted the working daughter of the "JUMBO" or the hotel official in Chania or the President of the Trade Union Medals of Northern Greece. The dismissal of the "PRAKTIKER" chain is a vengeance and aims to prevent other workers and to impose, in essence, a silhouette of fish specifically for workers trade unionists, pioneers in the struggle and claims of workers against exhaustive hours, extended and waste hours, on Sundays, hunger wages, who do not meet the basic needs of the workers and have embedded the lives of the workers. The practice and tactics of employers are on top of the dozens of anti-government laws and the regulations against them and the organized collective action, which all governments have voted over the years, culminating in the abortion voted by the Government of New Democracy, the Hatzidakis Act, giving the ban on "air in both sails and immunity to employers, to beat unions and trade unions" so that there is no obstacle to the labour middle ages that they want or which you want to impose. This is because the anti-union attack on collectively, a total of workers' rights goes hand in hand with the trade union persecutions and the attempt to subject the appalling appetites and demands of the employer. That is why you want - governments and employers - the workers, the working class unorganized, which is why you are seeking to end the trade union movement, which, of course, you want to fame. And here you say - rhetorical is the question - really, how free is a worker finally to negotiate with the bosses about his contract? We call on the workers, who have already reached their conclusions, to continue their struggle to withdraw the dismissal of their colleague at the PRAKTIKER, because no employer or any government or law can outweigh the power which workers themselves have when claiming their right. And allow me, Mr President - and I close with this - to say this: they are deeply laughed and the government and the employer and, if they think that by simply voting for laws, they will end up with the struggles of the workers. The story is full of laws that the massive and organized class struggle sent them to the can of the unusable. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u27	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Lambroulis, I said earlier that the law provides for certain specific procedures. We are in an ongoing process. I have explained that since the beginning of my position. In particular, for trade union activity, as I have said, our legislation explicitly provides for its protection. Now, in these specific events. With regard to the withdrawal of the dismissal you ask by your question, awaiting the written explanations of the company, the Larissa Labour Relations Inspectorate closely monitors the matter, as well as all labour relations and application of the provisions of labour law in the above undertaking, making all necessary legal action and procedure. As I mentioned in my prototype, the APRC has requested - as the law requires - the written explanation of the redundancy operation. At the end of the verification procedure and in the event that the Larissa Labour Relations Inspection Division does not thrive on the intervention of the Larissa Inspection Department in order to resolve the above issues, the APR will be submitted by the APRC to the Larissa Board of Appeal, providing all relevant information in the case file on any criminal liability, in accordance with the provisions of Article 23 of Law 1264/1982. That is the procedure which I mentioned earlier. I believe that all of us have confidence in the judgment of Greek justice. And to refer to one of the examples that I am aware of from the three you mentioned, to the hotel worker from Chania, the recourse to justice has provisionally been vindicated by the individual worker. So let us have confidence in justice, let us follow the procedures, and I think we will have the best results. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u29	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the eighth under number 34-10-2021, a topical question by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on "Measures and procedures to support those affected by the catastrophic earthquake". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u30	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, as you know very well and because of your visit to the wider region, more than three municipalities have been affected by the catastrophic earthquake of 27 September, but also by the wider Arkalochori region of the earthquakes that took place in July. I say this because the July statements should be contained in the provisions to support those who have suffered damage. What we have basically agreed on is that priority must, of course, be given to support for people, to ensure a decent living for winter and until their homes are restored, of course, there must be organised reconstruction in the region. In relation to the responsibilities of your own - since we have questions with your fellow ministers today about their powers - I would like you to tell me what stage the controls and how many buildings have been checked out of all the declarations made. We need to know the whole of the declarations, the buildings that have been checked, what the result of the first check is and, above all, see when the second check will begin and when we will have a timetable for how the recovery process can proceed. The important thing about temporary housing is the settlements. Of course, the thirty three firsts have arrived in Heraklion. I do not know whether the total household supply planning meets the needs identified in the two municipalities, mainly. We should know that and, of course, let us know. And tell us about the school halls thing. We cannot have the inappropriate 2/3 of schools where needs are at least eighty rooms and so far we have to talk about twenty rooms, forty forty. We must immediately identify the real needs. The real needs are from eighty to a hundred rooms. And, of course, there is also a need for some services. I would add, because the process is dynamic, Minister, that the KYA which was issued on 6 October in order to enable the people affected to enter the "arogi.gov.gr" platform and get the advance payment of the aid, unfortunately, I would mention to you what does not include: No villages of the Municipal Unit of Kastelion, almost half the villages of the Municipal Unit of Arkalochori, many villages of the Municipality of Asterous Islands, and the neighbouring municipalities. It is a question of immediately amending and supplementing it on the basis of the information you have at your disposal. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u31	And we thank Mr. Kegeroglu. The timely question will be answered by the State Secretary for Infrastructure and Transport, George Karagiannis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, Mr President. Honourable Member, indeed, I am glad you come back so soon to a new question, because, after all, last week, we were here last Friday and we were answering all the issues and all the actions that the Ministry of Infrastructure has taken to restore those affected by this earthquake that occurred in Crete. And believe me, I understand you. And for us it is a priority to complete the checks in the buildings. And we are in this difficult environment that exists in your area - I understand your interest - to tell you new things. Because, really, as you quite rightly said, it's a dynamic process, but we're there. I told you last Friday that the field was a hundred engineers and the controls were moving fast and fast. Today there are a hundred twenty engineers and the checks carried out every day are more than a thousand. Primary control will continue until all the affected buildings sent daily by the municipalities are checked. As you know very well why we also have telephone communications together, we are in constant consultation with the municipalities, and from today, Mr Kegeroglu, we are starting secondary controls. So by updating the information I gave you a week ago, I inform you that until yesterday afternoon, autopsies were carried out in nine thousand twenty-seven buildings, of which four thousand hundred twenty-two were residential and five thousand five non-residential. And I want - as you rightly said - to bear in mind that we had the July earthquake in the region. So you know that at the moment, self-consciousness is being reintroduced in the buildings that were then declared residential in order to determine whether they have been damaged by the earthquake that took place on 27 September. You know very well that every problem that may arise, we are trying to find a solution. On the question of the immediate demolition of dangerous buildings that prevent the safe passage of the local residents, I will present to you in the minutes the document of our Ministry's competent service to the Municipality of Minoa, which we ask to point out to the coordinator of the IAEA in Crete what the dangerous buildings are, so that the service can move immediately and the autopsy protocol can immediately be taken out so that the municipality can make demolitions through the funding received from the Ministry of Interior. As you rightly said before, the IAEA last Friday prepared the CYA to demarcate the affected areas for both earthquakes, which is important for granting housing assistance to the owners of the buildings. But I would like to inform you that today it has been signed by all the co-legislative ministries and published in FEK, and soon the supplementary FEH will be followed by the demarcation that will also apply to other local units and municipalities affected and under way by the municipalities. At the same time, the Ministerial Decision setting the time limits and the procedure for granting the housing aid, as well as the CYP for granting a rental subsidy related to the costs of the temporary housing of the owners of residential dwellings to be classified as non-residents, is drawn up. Mr Kegeroglu, honourable Member, on Wednesday the first thirty four houses were taken down and are currently in Heraklion. At the same time yesterday, in the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport, the competition for a supply of ninety new houses, all of which will go to Crete, Heraklion, to meet housing needs, took place. But it is worth mentioning - and I would like us to be quite honest in this regard - that the municipalities must take the necessary steps to ensure that the areas are properly formed, that there are the OK networks and that the location of these houses is operational. Mr. Kegeroglu, you know very well that our government is there next to the people. Mr. Stylianides was there the other day. Mr. Triantopoulos is there today. We're next door to deal with all the issues that exist. The 'arogi.gov.gr' platform has already been opened. And as you can see, the credibility of our Government for what we have announced and implemented immediately is tangible. We proceed with actions and we are next to the citizens of Crete and Heraklion. As far as the issues of school halls are concerned, I will answer my second question. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u33	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr Kegeroglu has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr President. The question, as has been proved by the answer, is an object and I must be clear. Parliamentary control is the means, of course, to ask the government and to monitor it, but above all to inform about things that need to be more important or to change decisions and improve its activity and its planning. So here, what I would like to mention first of all with the audits is the framework for the completion of secondary controls. It's good that you've answered me. Indeed this very large number, and I did not expect it to be so large that the number of houses declared and controlled and, above all, the non-residential ones. The number 5205 is, really, too big. I don't know where it's going to be until the end, but I think that's the only figure showing the size of the disaster. So the secondary control that starts today - as you said - must have a certain time horizon. Put him on the basis of the potential available to you, don't stay in the middle. That's the one I want. The second is it not possible for the municipality to indicate its readiness. The municipality could not establish the committee and the decentralised administration formed it because of a lack of engineering. I think the most appropriate ones to point out the steps are your own services that are from the first moment there. They had gone, of course, and were there because of the earthquakes that had taken place before. Therefore, with more credibility, your services will be able to locate the preparedness. It is important - and I will tell you here in particular - that the two-hour launching of the three-hour symposia which is on the main road of Arkalochori should be possible for the market to function. At the moment, the road is closed for so many days, because two dangerous three-storeys have not been cleansed. This must be done as a priority. There's the municipality committee. I believe that it has proceeded, and your services have identified it, because the municipality is also responsible for moving forward with the award for the take-off. Now in relation to the houses, I think, Minister, you should plan a second commission. It is very difficult to meet the needs. Five thousand two hundred five, one hundred twenty, is inconsistent. Just look at it from this side. The needs, according to people's assessments of where they know - not overestimates, because they also exist - exceed the two houses. Check it out immediately: Another supply of ninety houses, because I guess ninety is to be a shorter process. That's why the limit is ninety. The identification of new needs now does not entail the risk of fragmentation of a supply, because the needs are now being established in retrospect. So you are completely covered now in a second competition for the ninety, because the extra needs are now being identified. So there was no partition because we didn't know it before. After the houses were checked, it turns out. I think it's obvious. I don't know what you're going to answer. They do not want bases or infrastructures, except those for public spaces and toilets. It's an easier process. The other rooms are much easier. We have a firm base to place them. However, it has a small number planned by the Ministry, rather than a very small number, if I have, of course, the correct information. I'll wait for you to tell me. But here we will also be in order to contribute to your information, but also to seek appropriate solutions to these issues. If there is no co-operation and organised reconstruction, there will be no result. The advance payments are good, but we'll stay in advance. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u35	And we thank Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u36	First of all, Mr President, I am pleased that you are carrying out a parliamentary control which is honoured by you and I am pleased that we do not policy on ruins. And it really is very fertile how we debate and, as you quite rightly said before and at the beginning of your secondary speech, parliamentary control really is to feel the government breath of the opposition so that they can move forward. But I would also like you to admit that the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis and the Minister of Infrastructure Kostas Karamanlis do not have this problem. We are above all matters. Every day we see what is happening in Crete. Heraklion Prefecture, we're there. The government every day has a executive over there and faces all the problems. The aim of all of us is to relieve the people of the regions affected. And this is our common goal and yours and all the political forces. In addition, to what I mentioned in my first speech, I would like to inform you in my second language of the tests in school buildings. It is one of the issues that you have raised and, of course, I will reply to you on all the other issues that you have said. Initially, we should mention the following: The maintenance and repairs and damage to schools' educational buildings are the responsibility of the municipalities regardless of the phenomenon that causes them. That is the first presumption we have to take into account. The Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport does have a supervised body called "Building Infrastructures", which has competence to repair these buildings. If, therefore, we are to go to the essence of the matter - inability to implement the technical services of its municipalities or the region that really belong to them - it is possible to assign the SAC's schemas on the basis of a mandate from the Minister, as has been done, Mr Kegeroglou, to know that. We have already carried out - to see what we have found and what we will do in the next few months - ninety-four tests in school complexes and a total of ninety-one buildings in the affected areas. Of these, fifty-seven and fifty-three of them have been considered suitable for use, and thirty-four have been identified as unsuitable for use as having significant damage. Therefore, the buildings in which the technical checks carried out by the TIPS engineers show that the damage is not significant as they do not relate to elements of the construction organisation and do not require a static study to restore them. The repair work will therefore be completed in a short time after the CBC will undertake to implement this reopening and repairing of these buildings. So the next fortnight we will begin work on restoring the damage to four school units of the Municipality of Minoa Pediadou and, in particular, to the 2nd Arkalochori Primary School, the General School of Arkalochori, the 1st PAPAL Arkalochoriou and the High School of Kastelli. But already, Mr Kegeroglu, the first classrooms, as well as the auxiliaries, have been sent to be used to cover the needs of the school roof temporarily. By Monday 11th of October they will have been shipped and will be in Crete in total twenty two rooms with their respective auxiliary spaces. Finally, I would like to inform you that the CITC is conducting a competition for additional forty classrooms and seven teachers' offices, as well as auxiliaries, in order to meet the needs created to continue the courses. Now, on another two issues you have asked me and I am very pleased to answer you. With regard to secondary controls, as you know, the primary ones should be finished first and then secondary ones begin. I imagine you understand that and it's obvious. As early as today, secondary controls are beginning. As you can see, the tumor is too big. I do not want the information we are giving you at the moment about housing, because our engineers are absolutely certain, because now visual checks are being carried out, if they go in, after they see the details of the agency, then it will be the final characterisation. We are, however, moving forward very quickly, faster than ever before. Instead of reducing the number of engineers in Heraklion, it grows, Mr Kegeroglu, and you see it. Last week we had a hundred, now we have a hundred twenty. As you can see, the circumstances are difficult. However, there is a great effort made by all the Ministry's engineers to be able to cope. So the question of your secondary checks has been answered. Now, as far as what you said about the preparations is concerned, I think that in my first speech I have answered you and told you that the responsible department will take care of them. The relevant coordinator has already been informed. The preparedness that lies and actually closes some roads, and there can be no free passage of people, we will undertake to characterise them, we will effectively take this responsibility from the municipality, so that the municipality can move on to demolition. Now for the number of needs, as you know - I will repeat it once again, because I think it matters - the government is next door, it is over there. Right now there are people who are in hotels, there are people who are at home. We expect the municipalities to finish work essentially so that the habitats can stand. We're over there. We will always provide, but we need to see the real needs. Nobody's going to stay in tents. Already Mr Stylianides said so yesterday and the government is there every day to deal with all these issues. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u37	And we thank the Minister, because this is a very interesting matter, and that is why the Bureau, by appreciating his great importance, gave a very comfortable time both to the honourable Member, Mr Kegeroglu, and to the Minister who replied in particular. We move on to the eleventh question under number 35/4-10-2021 from the second question tabled by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister for Development and Investment, on "Aid measures for enterprises and workers in the earthquake of Arkalochori". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u38	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to make a detailed report because we have previously submitted the region's image. Let me just say that, unfortunately, the findings of the disasters are far greater than those we initially appreciated. It extends to two, three municipalities, and of course, we have many damages involving business buildings and business activities. Apart from the problem of housing and the need to assist people ahead of winter to have a decent living, the economy has kneeled. The entrepreneurship of the area has been kneeled. It's at the centre of Arkalochori, of course, but not just. So I will tell you that there are issues that you must take into account, Mr Minister. For businesses beyond financial assistance for goods or equipment which have been damaged - of course, their buildings - there is no provision for loss of income. There is no provision for this whole period of business to be closed down. And you will tell me that those who are closed because of the fact that they have a problem in the building and are owners will be compensated for the building, but for the cessation of professional activity and the necrosis of the economy in the region there is no support for it. Businesses - the professionals and workers - which are already a long time off the market are also expected to be, for far too long, because they have not been restored because of major problems, such as the launching of buildings that we have previously discussed with Mr Karayannis. A lot of businesses will stay closed. So one thing is to see the loss of income for both businesses and professionals and workers. And the second issue - because you are signatories to the joint ministerial decisions - is to see why too many settlements have been excluded and are not included in the decision. It does not include half the municipality of Arkalochori, it does not include half the municipality of Asterousia, although the declaration of emergency has been included. We therefore have these two main issues and to supplement them to the first, as I have tabled to you in the question, to support businesses for the loss of income to look at, Minister - or if you have considered it, to inform us - a support through the returnee's process to make a non-refundable advance for the operations that have been affected. But beware of losing income. At the C.H.I.E.L.D., you may not notice, which was published the day before yesterday, we have many exceptions. Although the entire municipality has been declared as an earthquake, many settlements are not included. So they go into the "Help" - not just business, all - and the settlements are not eligible because it has obviously become a mistake. I don't know if you've been informed, it's a CSI, and it needs to be corrected. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, too. The question will be answered by the Minister for Development and Investment, Mr Georgiadis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u40	Thank you very much, Mr President, and I thank the honourable Member very much, because the question is essentially and correctly, in the sense that, yes, the people in the Arkalochori region must feel - and I believe they feel - that the government, the Prime Minister and the entire service are at their disposal from the very beginning of this theorem. And I would like to tell you, Mr Colleague, why you may not know that the Ministry of Development and Investment in particular, as it has responsibility for supervising the Geodynamic Institute, already in July, had sent a large team from the Geodynamic Institute headed by the Secretary-General of the Directorate-General for Research and Innovation, Mr Thanassis Kyriazis, and a large group of engineers and scientists, who were monitoring the phenomenon of seismic activity in Arkalochori, had warned the inhabitants of the possibility of a bigger earthquake, we had recorded buildings that might have a problem with such a possible earthquake. And I can say that it was one of these moments that the state was more ready for the damage that, unfortunately, occurred than in any other case. And I would like to congratulate the Geodynamic Institute, Mr Akis Tselentis and his entire team, but also Mr Kyriazis who had been practicing this summer, in July, precisely because we were seeing the evolution of seismic activity in this region. Unfortunately, however, the phenomenon was very intense, it was superficial - so more destructive - and it really hit this region very much. And I would like to tell you that as regards the economic aspect, Mr Triantopoulos, general government coordination on the issues of the implementation of government policy in the areas of natural disasters, Mr Christos Triantopoulos has him, who coordinates these matters with the relevant ministries. We have already made speeches and will also make other contributions through the Development Bank, but also through the suspensions of the affected areas, to help the business activity in this region. As regards the CSR to which you referred, we followed what was brought to us in the CSR by the services as affected areas. If, however, it has become a mistake - I hear it now from you and I have no reason to question it - once I go to my office, I will immediately look at whether there is such a mistake and obviously it has to be corrected, because the purpose of the CRL is to go exactly to those areas that were in trouble. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u41	And we thank the Minister. The reason now for Mr Kegeroglou for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u42	Thank you, Mr President. Let me start by saying that the special interest is not only, Minister, because Arkalochori is my village of origin, the village where I was born and raised, because the disaster is such that it has hit the wider region, almost half the Prefecture of Heraklion and needs vigilance. So I want to make a point of helping to find solutions. I said before that it is the village that I was born and grew up, it is no accident for the interest, because of course I will still ask a question, but now I have the knowledge of the whole region, of the wider region, since it is half the Prefecture of Heraklion. So here I would point out that the KYA, unfortunately, and the previous one that defined the area declared in an emergency because it was affected by the earthquake, was the actual and subsequent decisions in other municipalities, which were not included, the KYA of the measures comprises half of the earthquake municipality Minoa Pedias, that is to say, it excludes the Municipal Community of Kastellio, which has been controlled by too many buildings, as Mr Karagiannis has informed us before and most of them have been uninhabited. In fact, it is indicative that Castle School - high school and high school - has gone unsuitable. So it's not what the services gave, it's a fat mistake, and it just has to be corrected. Errors are made, human is all, but it must be corrected immediately because people are resurrected with fear of being excluded. I think we should have fun with the impressions and change immediately. There's no reason, it's too easy. The second, in relation to the economy - which I once again say has been kneeled and to be raised again, wants organised and multi-faceted support - we need to see the loss of income for professionals, businesses from the first day until today and for the one that will continue. I will give you an example, because a company that has been damaged and owned is included. We have, of course, private buildings in many cases, which have some problems with regard to the platform, but I will see it with the Minister of Finance. In case it's rented and damaged the man, but not his own building, and he's trying to find another building and he doesn't find, that the business is closed and will be closed for a long time, he has a loss of income, he has two employees. What's he gonna do? Should there not be a suspension for workers on the pandemic model, should it be aid for a period of time? Should we not give support to the company itself for a period of time? Because survival of these people is a matter that the state needs to see. Of course, not only those who have a rental but also those who own it, apart from the advance on the building and the goods, have their family. If it is a unique private income from the company, they cannot go into poverty. The third issue is about your responsibility. In cases of subsidization of a building, we have no response to the platform. They are excluded because no provision has been made. Also, we have cases where buildings have been granted free of charge, whether they are children, or anything else, to make a professional home. In other words, there are some particular features that the decision has not taken and you need to see them again, so that no one is excluded. I would like, however, in the next few days, Minister, if you have not done so, to see all the measures, including support for the loss of income for professionals and businesses. That is my request for workers too, so that they can actually survive in the next few days. With a view to winter restoration is not easy. We will then discuss with Mr Tagaras the issue of urban reconstruction, because there is no possibility either in the villages or in Arkalochori, where most of them are plunged by the urban plan, and those who are in a collapse - only those who want small repairs will work very quickly - because there is a need for local planning, that is to say, a new background.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u43	Don't go to the other thing, if you'll talk about it later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u44	Yes, I'm done, Mr. President. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u45	Thank you, too. The Minister now has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u46	Mr President, I think that the fact that it is not only the MEP's constituency, but also the place of special origin, allows for a little more time...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u47	Besides, I applied that, I did.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u48	No, no, I wanted to say that it is perfectly understandable and that is how politics has to work. The issues that you have raised me in dentistry, as you can see, are generally governmental and not purely the Ministry of Development. We in the Ministry of Development have signed the relevant MCAs for the suspension of insurance contributions, for the suspension of tax obligations, for capitalisation. We've all done it. However, because I do not want to go away from the essence of your question, which is correct, I tell you that we are above all the co-legislative ministers. We expect that if the issue of CSR is wrong - within the day I will be informed whether there is indeed the mistake you are saying - to be corrected. We will see, indeed, how we can help the region's business world further. We recognize that people have been damaged. This is a fact and the government recognises it. We're on top and there's gonna be the relevant announcements. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u49	Thank you, Mr. Minister. We move on to the next cycle of questions, to all the questions that will be answered by the Secretary of State for the Environment and Energy, Mr Nikolaos Tagaras. We begin with the debate on the first under number 18/4-10-2021 in the first cycle of the New Democracy MP Karditsa Georgios Kotsou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: ‘Possibility of subsidising farmers of a photovoltaic system to offset produced - consumed energy’. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u50	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I am sure you too recognise that the primary sector is a dynamic pillar of our country, a pillar that plays an important role in economic life not only in our country, but also in many Greeks and Greeks. In fact, the importance of the primary sector is even more pronounced than when we see that another structural pillar of development in our country, such as tourism, is extremely vulnerable to accidental events. You see that with our pandemic tourism has been very badly affected, so that we have a reduction in our Gross National Product and that is why we must attach even greater importance to the primary sector, which, as I said, is a stable and structural pillar of our country's development. The agricultural sector, however, in order to meet the challenges of the time, must be modernised and, above all, becoming competitive. Modern agriculture needs to be economically sustainable, environmentally safe, as the international community requires, but also as reflected in the Europe-Green Agreement. In this respect, I think it is extremely important that renewable energy sources be exploited from the primary sector and from our farmers. And I tell you this because the largest cost in agricultural production is irrigation, mainly based on either electricity or oil. If it is also based on oil, then the cost is extremely high. But now, with the increases we have in electricity - which, unfortunately, come from the international market and not from the internal market - you see that this problem will deteriorate even further. I therefore believe that it is in the right direction to establish photovoltaic systems in the agricultural sector for self-production of energy. At the same time, however, apart from covering agricultural production, there must be the possibility of excess energy being made available to the system and an additional income for the farmer and the farmer, for the people of the region. It is in the right direction, and I believe that we must support our farmers in this respect, so that they can go ahead with the installation of photovoltaic systems, the self-production of energy, which they need and reduce production costs, help to protect the environment, but above all make use of a renewable source of energy for the benefit and development of the agricultural development process. I therefore believe that our Ministry should support rural women and farmers in the installation of PVCs with a strong funding programme, and I would like to see the Ministry's view here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr. Kotso. Here, Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u52	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, first of all, I fully agree with you on the role, the important over time that our primary sector, our farmers, plays. In fact, coming from the parents of the primary sector, there is certainly, if you want a personal sensitivity, beyond matching the objectives and requirements of support for the primary sector. I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Environment and Energy has set as the main priority the support and strengthening of the rural economy and activity within the framework of energy transformation, which our Government is launching throughout the country. In this context, the national energy and climate plan, which highlights the specificities of the area, as well as the development potential that our country has in terms of energy and climate crisis, aims to provide an essential tool for shaping national energy and climate policy over the next decade and has therefore included a specific thematic section on agriculture, shipping and tourism - you have also referred to tourism previously - with policy priorities for the next period and the corresponding measures to implement the priorities. In particular, the national energy and climate plan includes three policy priorities in the agricultural sector and among them the promotion, as you rightly said, of the use of renewable energy sources. In particular, it provides for the promotion of the use of RES and energy efficiency improvement actions in the agricultural sector, combined with the management and utilisation of agricultural and livestock residues and the development of domestic production of advanced biofuels and supply chains for their use. In addition, the RES facility for the production of electricity in high productivity land is to be launched taking into account the provisions of the licensing and spatial planning framework in order to ensure that energy production in such areas is not competitive with economic activities in the agricultural and livestock sectors. Further progress is being made on promoting RES systems for heating and cooling on agricultural and livestock holdings. For example, the use of geothermal energy and other forms of EIA in greenhouses is mentioned. As regards the dimension of improving energy efficiency, measures will be promoted to replace existing machinery and installations used in both agricultural and livestock facilities and farms with new high energy efficiency. Priority will also be given to machinery and equipment characterised by high energy consumption, such as tractors, harvesters and mining machines, cotton collectors and sporting machines on farms and milking machines, hatching machines, cleaning machines and feeders on farms. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I shall conclude, Mr President. Emphasis will also be placed on pumping stations and irrigation systems by designing measures which will contribute simultaneously to reducing both energy consumption and water savings. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr. Minister. Mr. Kotsos has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u54	Minister, it is indeed in the positive direction that you expressed that your Ministry supports the modernisation and upgrading of the primary sector, mainly through the introduction of renewable energy sources in this direction. I would like to point out here that it was an extremely good previous amendment that came to the House and was voted on, which increased the amount of energy produced from 100 MW to 100 KW, to 500 KW, without losing the farmers' status. But here I would like us to focus not on energy production by the producer of energy, but on the farmer's energy consumers at the level of his pumping station, the level of energy production, the self-production of energy, which is required for agricultural crops. That is where we should, on the one hand, finance the farmer in order to establish from the modern systems of energy production from renewable energy sources, but at the same time also anticipate surplus energy produced by these systems and not required for cultivation, so that the farmer can be made available to the system in order to obtain an extra income. I think that these are two important parameters in which we should focus, therefore, on the financing of farmers for the installation of photovoltaic systems, in order to have self-production for their agricultural crops and the surplus agricultural energy available to the system in order to provide an extra income for farmers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u55	Thank you, Mr. Kotso. The Minister now has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u56	Thank you, Mr President. I continue, my dear colleague, and agreeing with your remarks and additions, with what are the interventions in the exact direction you described: Energy efficient equipment will be promoted for the most basic systems used, such as pumps, structures of artificial rain, self-propelled major launchers, irrigation assemblies with drops and self-propelled structures of technical rain. In particular, for the production of thermal and refrigerating energy, this objective will be achieved both individually and by centralised support systems. In this direction, the installation of remote heating systems and micro-computer systems will be explored. In fact, at the beginning of 2022, a new action will already be launched in the Rural Development Programme, including eligible investments, which will be eligible for renewable energy production for energy exploitation needs to contribute to the sustainability of the environment and the rational use of natural resources, taking into account estimates of the climate crisis - change, as well as the improvement of environmental subsidies on the farm. Note to the report of the disasters of 'Jan' mentioned by your current question: As you mentioned the disasters caused by the Mediterranean Cyclone 'January' in September 2020, as regards the region of Thessaly, in particular the damage to the agricultural holdings of the Carditsa Regional Region, it is worth noting that the ELGA, in implementing the State directive, which was formulated by the legislation of Law No. 4737/2020, which for the first time granted compensation of 100% of the insured value and, in fact, within four months of the occurrence of the abovementioned cause, paid the above-mentioned regional unit - you know them, but I note them on the basis of your question - compensation of EUR 24,269 000 to the insurance up-to-date producers. The institutional framework now for the strengthening and investment incentives of farmers in terms of RES and energy clearing will come as a culmination in what our Government has already done, and in particular, our Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis in this direction. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] A little more time, Mr President. With my recent ministerial decision, I would remind you, in August 2021, that the power limit for the installation of stations is increased - you also referred to - RES for the application of energy netting or virtual energy netting on the interconnected network and in Crete from 1 to 3 MW. This allows industry and other energy-intensive activities to meet their needs with green energy, limiting costs and reducing the environmental footprint. It also increases in the electronic system of Rhodes the power limits of 500 kW to 1 MW for stations installed by energy communities. The power limits shall be increased from 300 kW to 500 kW installed by legal persons governed by public or private law pursuing public or other objectives of public interest. For power stations up to 10,8 kW for three-phase services and up to 5 kW for one-phase services, provision is made for the possibility of connecting with the interested party's actions and simply informing the TEN. This provision accelerates the installation of small photovoltaic stations such as those placed on roofs and commercial buildings. Therefore, the aim is to take advantage of all potential and on the basis of the reason - what has been evolving lately, and I think throughout the whole area, is to be able to reverse the causes that lead us to the climate crisis. Renewable energy sources and the part you mentioned in the primary sector, as well as in general the country's energy needs, are the goal of the government and everything it needs, money here we have and it is a priority that we move from an old production as an energy model to a new one. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Minister. We move to the first with number 25/4-10-2021 in the second question of the new Republic MP Evros Anastasios Anastasios (Tasos) (Tasos) DRC to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The vertical energy axis will offer a valuable development advantage to the Prefecture of Evros". Mr. Prussakis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u58	Mr President, thank you very much. Undersecretary, the Government of New Democracy, loyal to its announcements, proceeds to expand gas distribution throughout the country and starts this process from East Macedonia and Thrace. It is an emblematic work that the Prime Minister himself was symbolically launched in Xanthi on July 1st of this year, because it concerns all five regional units, with their capitals, as well as the city of Nea Orestiad, marking the start of regional network expansion, as I said, Eastern Macedonia and Thrace. The vision of our relentless regional director George Pavlides, who had planned this project five years ago, which I supported from the outset, which I have pointed out since, however, underlined as absolutely essential that all Evros should join this process. Because our county is the largest and largest population in the region. There is an energy world in Thrace and Evros. Alexandroupolis evolves into an energy hub of natural gas, contributing to the upgrading of Greece's geostrategic position. Mr Secretary-General, as I mentioned in my timely question, the existing planning that I said before, and which has been launched, does not, at present, solve the energy problem of the first prefecture of the country, which is the pillar of the state and of Europe. All pipelines arrive at our feet, pass through them, arrive in Athens, Thessaloniki and Bravo in the Greek state that came to implement such a vision, which is a useful development tool. However, in the first county of the country, in the first villages in the country it leaves nothing but problems. A pipeline that will carry natural gas from Alexandroupolis to the Municipality of New Orestiad, a vertical local energy pipeline is useful to enable it to give all this gift to these local communities. In expressing my fellow citizens' legitimate desire, I would like you to answer two questions: at what stage is the design of this vertical energy axis, and what is the procedure to be followed for the Public Gas Distribution Company, the well-known TEN, headed by curator Mario Tsaka, to carry out an important project, which will be a development advantage and will hold the population in the region. We need it. Our reserve must be strong. The national guards, too, must be present, because we have seen the events in March 2020 and I believe that we have all reached our conclusions. Mr President, thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u59	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, I would like to tell you that our Government, first of all in the energy transformation of the whole country, contributes in practice with its policy and decisions to the implementation of one, as you mentioned, of important energy work and near the Evros gas border, with the aim of the Eastern Macedonia and Thrace region in particular, and in particular, of the Evros Act having a separate place in the 2021-2025 Development Programme of the TEN. You mentioned it yourself. From the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace, the first major projects to expand natural gas distribution networks to bring cheaper and cleaner energy in the cities of Xanthi, Drama, Komotini, Alexandroupolis, Kavala and Orestia were launched. I'm more specific with your answer and your question. I start from the second and I'll come back to the first. According to the TEN development programme, in the six areas mentioned, a total of four hundred and sixty km of network will be built, while some fifteen thousand consumer connections will be made in all categories. In this way energy needs are to be met for all social strata, namely households, small and medium-sized enterprises, industries and all public buildings, such as hospitals and schools. In fact, the estimated number of connections is the minimum to be made. If there is more demand, it will be fully covered and the number of connections will be multiple. However, it is estimated, according to RAE's relevant document, that the connections will deliver distributed quantities of gas, amounting to five years 2021-2025 to 183,207 MWh for households, about 201,000 MWh for commercial and 166,000 MWh for industrial customers. These data are derived from RAE's O-89884 document 28-9-2021. The total cost of these investments is estimated at EUR 62,077.073. The municipality's power will be provided through the interconnection of the network with the NSA, apart from the Municipality of Orestiad, which will initially be supplied with the CNG Compressed Natural Gas Station, using innovative technologies and in line with the highest safety standards. This is the case - to refer to the relevant point in the preamble to your timely question - because it is not close to the high pressure pipeline of the ETUC, at a sufficient distance to make such an interconnection economically advantageous, in line with the relevant cost-benefit study submitted by RAE exclusively by the ETUC. Therefore, the only way to supply the Municipality of Orestiad in the initial phase and until the network is connected to the NSA is by CNG trucks. Especially with regard to the city of Orestiad, the supply of the TENS provides that the city will initially be supplied with compressed natural gas CNG. A ultimate objective is the interconnection of the Orestiad with the new gas pipeline, which is planned to be built along the vertical axis of Evros. In particular, the pipeline will be extended from the Garden Area to Orestiada, in order to gain access to the natural gas of Soufli and the Dumotich, covering the energy needs of households living at the border with Turkey and contributing to the development of the businesses in the remote region. I'm going to go on in my dentistry. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u61	And we, thank the Minister. Mr. Prussakis, the word for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u62	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, you are bringing us good news and giving me this opportunity to specialize further and to give our locusts an understanding of the size of our effort and implementation as far as our Government is concerned. I am very pleased that the government is aware of the importance of energy upgrading and armouring and of the country, and above all, as we speak, of Evros along the border. I'll start from Alexandroupolis and upwards. I am not talking about the former Kapodistrian municipality of Trajanoupolis. It is now a suburb of Alexandroupolis. I shall start, Mr President, from the Ferres, a town that is alive and, indeed, is a seat and a motor-powered Brigade. Soufli, Dumotiko, Nea Orestiada, Right, Kastanies, Nea Vyssa, Ormeni and the other settlements and villages are live and active camps of the Greek army and of Europe. In the census currently being carried out, however, Evros shows that it belongs to the areas with the greatest population shrinkage, the bomb of which has been lit. And that applies especially to the painful triangle of the seventeen villages of New Orestiad, which is from Ardas to Ormene. Our Prime Minister, in the context of informing and interviewing the IGC, mentioned the isolation of northern Evros expressly, as well as the need for specific development measures for the region. We know that energy costs are a basic criterion for investment decisions. A gas pipeline which will go to Ormene and the Fairs we want, Mr Secretary, and not only until the three towns of the three local municipalities, which will be adequately intertwined towards the towns. It will be an incentive, an incentive for businesses to invest in the area, an incentive for residents to remain on their land, and it will give an economic advantage to those who are already trying and facing unequal conditions of competition, due to a distance from the urban centres. In the fertile valleys of Ardas and Erythropotamos, where it is really a productive place, perhaps the top of the country, the valleys of northern Evros, where 40% of the frozen vegetables of the Greek market are cultivated, two main units located at Kyprinos and at the village of Comaros and the other operation at Metaxades. HELLAS FROST and FROST are, as I said, important processing industries in the region. The Vulnerable Fragment of the Great Dereio, which is routed and decided by the Interministerial Committee and progressed the study process, which was also a dream of decades, will give the opportunity and unite the two valleys of northern Evros and will be all irrigable areas. You realize that half Evros will be cultivated and irrigated and produced. So five hundred thousand acres we can ensure that they multiply the production volume. We therefore need two horizontal pipelines, Mr Secretary. So please bring the map of Evros to your image. You assure me as government and you tell us the pleasant message that we will have the vertical pipeline and we want this vertical county pipeline to cover both the towns and the villages along the way. It will be ironic and tragedy to pass the pipeline and not to benefit the local residents. But what do we have? We both have two valleys. It is the valley of the Red Crescent of the Twin wall and the valley of Ardas, New Orestiad. So we will be able, for thirty plus thirty, or sixty kilometers, to give the advantage to these people and to attempt, and to work, and to remain at their homes, because they are guards of the country and so we must take them. I therefore think that you have brought us good news, as I have said from the beginning. In conclusion, I would like to ask you and answer my three questions: what will be the financial instrument, as you quite rightly said, for the ESDP to be activated in order to implement this project? You said it at first, but we want to know when and when. Is there going to be a burden on the citizens? That's what they ask me. The second is what is the timetable for the implementation and completion of this project? Will the vertical energy axis be connected only to the three major municipalities of central and northern Evros, or will both horizontal axes to Metaxades, to the Greek-Bulgarian border? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u63	Minister, you have the floor for your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u64	Thank you, Mr President. Dear colleague, you referred to additional projects that are evolving in the region of Evros and eastern Macedonia and in general. Definitely changing the productive model through energy transformation. You have referred to the main gas lines, but the main axes that are actually going through the areas will be slowly supplemented by networks that will reach the consumer. We may start from the big consumers, because all until they are developed and completed have a timetable that needs to be sustainable in order to be able to complete. So the answer is that secondary networks will certainly continue to come through the major consumers, and smaller consumers, through the networks you mentioned before you. In order to respond more specifically to your questions, the TENA has completed the preparation of the preliminary studies necessary for the basic design of the new pipeline, while in cooperation with the Region of East Macedonia and Thrace it has ensured the necessary resources to finance the project and will include it in the company's 2022-2026 development programme. The projects in the region of eastern Macedonia and Thrace are a total budget of EUR 61,8 million and are financed by TENs funds, as well as by the NRP for the period 2014-2020 through the Operational Programme of East Macedonia and Thrace. The benefits of natural gas are multipliers for society, for the environment, for the economy and for employment. It follows that the cost of energy is significantly reduced for households, which, in particular, in northern Greece, because of special conditions, which you know best, have increased heating needs. But it's not just about households. In addition, the cost of production of enterprises is also reduced, thereby giving incentives to new investments and boosting the local economy at the same time. It is worth noting that TEN projects have a strong developmental character and a sign. At all stages of its implementation, construction costs, project supervision, work for internal facilities, because they are also subsidised by various projects, open up many new jobs in various specialities, such as engineers, workers, operators, heat-hydro-hydraulic, welders, installers, scholars, and significantly boosting employment. Conclusion: This is still a green initiative, since natural gas is more environmentally friendly than other forms of energy. Of course, the ultimate objective is renewable energy. This is a transitional phase, but it has time and we need to meet needs and it will be the bridge to the use of renewable energy sources and to a climate-neutral economy. In addition, in line with current national energy planning, the promotion of actions such as infrastructure relating to the extension of existing and new gas distribution networks, the development of compressed natural gas distribution infrastructure, CNG, and liquefied gas, in selected areas, for the supply of remote consumers, as well as important infrastructure projects, national and above all international interest, aimed at creating conditions and further infiltration of natural gas, in all major parts of the country, since energy is a primary energy and social asset. We are currently experiencing side effects of this system. But it will all be balanced. What we need from our side is to take the measures and the government takes them, which is seen every day in what is presented. Reflexes are fast and I appreciate it effectively, until all these parameters that act in difficult situations are balanced. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u65	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the sixth under No 324-10-2021 topical question by MP B1' North Athens Sector Mr. Georgios Koumoutsakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "North Cycling Axis Attica". Mr. Kumucako, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, first of all, I would like to emphasise your always stable presence and your willingness to respond to the current questions from the members of the National Representation. That is a good thing, and positive ones must be said. Minister, you are well aware that sustainable urban mobility is a key pillar of European policies, both for transport and for sustainable cities. It is at the same time one of the most important tools for mild intervention to reduce greenhouse gas emissions, but also for smooth, citizens-friendly, city-friendly. Bicycles, Minister, are an essential quality of life in modern cities. This is why strengthening their network is a consistent demand for a large share of the inhabitants of the wider area of the basin. In the framework of the NSRF 2007-2013, a small section – namely the southern part – of the large cycling axis “Faliric Cove – Kifisia” was completed. However, to date, most of this bicycle line, namely its northern branch, which is nearly seventeen kilometres long, has not been built to date. This creates a impression as the relevant expenditure is eligible by the NRP and the Recovery Fund, there are studies and approvals by the municipalities from which this cycling axis is to pass and it seems that their will and their agreement has been assured. I am referring, Minister, to the part of this axis: 'ISAP Monastiraki - Omonia - Victoria - Moreos - Nea Ionia - Heraklion - Irene - Maroussi - Khefisia', most of which is passing through and is going to serve the inhabitants of the northern sector of Attica. In conclusion, I would like to say that this interest of the citizens, a large proportion of the citizens, on this bike axis, obliges us to discuss it, because the policy we are all conducting - and we must exercise - is a policy with citizens and citizens. Much less so since I would also mean my little voice as a person who, at least on weekends, is trying to ride the bike, with my sons, and we do not really find, Minister, sufficient space and, above all, safe space for a simple walk, for a simple exercise that gives so much joy to both the families and the children and to all those who love the bike and want to spend a few pleasant moments, which are also environmentally friendly. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u67	And we thank Mr. Kumucako. The Minister has the floor now to answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u68	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will agree with you on the remarks and on the objectives. Cities are changing, functions are changing, habits we need to change, because what we are living as a result of the climate crisis, beyond the lifestyle and beyond the side effects that we have created, leads us to changes in many things that we have been used to for many years. It is true that the Metropolitan Cyclic Axis Faliro - Kifissia, part of which has been completed - you have also referred to - is an important axis that will contribute to the direction that you have described, and of course I have accepted and supplemented by a few. I would like to tell you that for the entire project - as you know, as you mentioned before - a study has been carried out in the past by the Department of Urban Renewal Studies of the Ministry of Energy and Climate Change and was supported energy by the Sustainable Mobility Unit of the National Technical University of Athens through the Research Programme 'Research for the Development of Long Cycling Routes in Athens'. From the route Faliro - Kifisia the part Faliro - Gazi has now completed the course and the axis from Ghazi to Kifisia remains. This study concerned bicycle development from Thessio, Asomas Square, to Kifisia ESAP station, 16.73 km long, moving in a large part along the lines of the ESAP. This study will be, as you rightly said, a key body of this service to update the design and the creation of the new metropolitan bicycle path. For the northern part, an electronic tender is currently under way by the Directorate for Studies and Urban Refreshments, on the provision of services by an external contractor, regarding the support of the address for the update of the available material and studies to promote the implementation of the Metropolitan Cycle Road North Skele Ghazi - Kifisia. In other words, there is, in fact, an update of existing studies to enable the development, financing and construction of the project at the same time. The Contractor should support the Department of Urban Refreshments Studies and Works of the Ministry of the Environment to assess and identify these changes that will occur in the wider region following the implementation of the updated design and its forecasts. Changes that can be made and proposed are as follows: The abolition of temporary parking - either partially or throughout the road - the change in the traffic organisation - for example a one-way road, a two-way road to become a one-way road - and the abolition of a lane of traffic, the creation of mixed bicycle roads - vehicles with priority on bicycles, the modification of the initial engraving of the bicycle road, the extension of the sidewalk, the extension of the lanes and bicycles. For all of these necessary forecasts and arrangements, there will be consultation with all stakeholders and support from the EIF in order to respond to the composition of opinions on final proposals for the finalisation, update, of the study in order to ultimately benefit from funding. I will deal in detail with what is evolving and I shall continue with my second language. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Minister. Mr Kumucasakos now has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u70	From your theology, Minister, I retain two things: the first is the present and strong political will of the Ministry to support this work. Because the introductory part of your speech shows the absolute understanding of the need for us to move to a new phase, to changes, to our cities for better life and more environmentally friendly. Therefore, the starting point for this work is here, because the starting point each time is the political will and how political leaderships believe in what needs to be done. And you testified it here with intensity and purity. With regard to the second part of your speech I am holding, it is the complexity of the work. I did not doubt it - and it is well known - but the complexity of the work in no way should be a relevant factor in making progress, because the transition to a new, better and more quality life, clearly requires major changes and concerted efforts. Just as you described it, the development and implementation of the northern bicycle axis is not only a task of breathing and improving the quality of life in towns and especially in the northern area we are talking about, but at the same time it is a serious development project, because the work you have described in this detail - and I expect you to follow up in your second language - indicates the development potential of this adaptation. I would therefore ask you to proceed as quickly as possible. By listening to you, I believe that this is going into the high positions of your priorities, despite the difficulty it has. I would like to make one final point. Last week, it became the great cycling race of Spartakia organized by the Panhellenic Association of Palestinian Sports. They started from Athens, here from Kallimarmaro to reach Sparta. I would like to hope and expect, Minister, that this opportunity will be for thousands of cyclists in their towns without having to organize something as big as police and organizers. It should be something simpler to get a citizen's bike from home with his children and enjoy this love in sport, but also in an environmentally friendly activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u71	And we thank Mr. Kumucako. The Minister for the Environment and Energy has the floor now, Mr Tagaras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Mr President. My dear colleague, in agreeing and extending to what you referred to: quality of life, protection of the environment, development, bet that we all have to win together, we do not need to analyse why, because I think no one disagrees with the objective, but also with the tools to be able to achieve it. I mentioned before about the studies already under way with the support of the external partner and where we will end up in terms of study maturation. Firstly, the collection and evaluation of existing studies and other relevant data, measurements and research, legal support, communication, per section redefine standard cross-section and even drawing up proposals for new traffic regulations in the area of influence, assessment of traffic regulations - impact from the new cross-sections, update of measurement and budget - is what I said before on maturation - support for the process of drawing up auction boxes, support for the contractor, the service, consultation and approvals. The Region of Attica is responsible for financing the project. The proposed service has been included under the heading "Other Environmental Balance Actions" of the Environmental Balance Programme approved for the year '21 under the decision of the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: Adoption of a financing programme for the Green Environment Fund for the year '21 and the allocation of some EUR 136 000. The amount I referred to before is EUR 23,160. There are several amounts. I do not want to talk about details and documents. The estimated value of the contract to be signed with the contractor that will result from the electronic tender is approximately EUR 136,000 entitled "Metropolitan Bicycle Road, north of Gazi - Kifisia". The duration of the contract is 12 months from the post of KIMDIS until the delivery is completed. With regard to the construction project to be carried out by the studies mentioned above, it will be completed and mature so that funding can be financed and the construction of the project amounts to about 7 million. With the update of the studies this may slightly differentiate, we will have the final budget. It will be made from the ESDP, as I said it will be financed by the Attica Region. But, for our part, by monitoring and cooperating with the Attica Region as well and by recognising the need, the importance of a project, which is a contribution to many areas both in human and in the environment, but also in society and in development, you should know that we are here, that we are developing to mature, complete the studies and we will be monitoring with a final goal soon to be ready to finance and start its construction so that your children and all society can enjoy this project. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u73	Thank you. I would like to say that the following questions will not be discussed in consultation: The second question under number 14/4-10-2021 of the first cycle of SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: “The problem of fire protection in the Sheikh – you are swelled by unauthorized and responsible confrontations”. The third under No 1/4-10-2021 topical question for the first cycle of the Parliamentary State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection on the subject: ‘Principal control of the country's building stock and structural support programmes’. The second question, under number 17/4-10-2021, of a second question by SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister of Climate Crisis and Political Protection, on the subject: "In the National Park of Schinia - Marathon, a crime against the environment and biodiversity has been committed". The ninth under number 9/4-10-2021 topical question of the second question of the MP Achaias of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Karathanasopoulos to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "The dismissal of 36 workers in the Greek Arms Industry (EBO) in Agios". The tenth under number 21/4-10-2021 is a topical question by MP 2 West Attica of SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance Mr.Georgios Tsipras to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Catholic Depreciation of Public Defence Industry through the vertical fall in the production of all the RAS factories and the mass redundancies of the modern factories of Egypt". The thirteenth, with number 22/4-10-2021, is a topical question by the SYRIZA MP - a Progressive Alliance Mr. Vassilis Kokkalis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: 'Janus - A Year after the Report'. The fifth under number 15/4-10-2021 is a top-level question for the first-round question by MP Heraklion of Mera25 Mr. Georgios Logiades to the Minister of Finance on the subject: "Let the Government clarify the intentions of TIEDD for the airport of Nikos Kazantzakis" Heraklion. The twelfth under number 29/4-10-2021 is a topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Thessaloniki, indirect privatisation of water and sewerage". Nor will it be debated because of a blockade by parliament, the seventh with number 19/4-10-2021 topical question of the second cycle of MP B2' West Athens Department of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Protection of the Citizen in West Athens". We shall conclude today's topical and urgent debate with the third with number 33/4-10-2021, a topical question from the President of the Hercules of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy on the subject: "Action for the urban reconstruction of the Arkalochori earthquake". Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr President. The disaster is great. The five thousand two hundred five so far, houses, businesses, schools considered unfit for housing or operation is only a sample of the extent of the disaster. The area has kneeled both economically and socially. Its housing, economic and social reconstruction requires policies, measures and actions in two pillars. The first pillar concerns ensuring a decent living for all affected and supportive measures. The second pillar concerns an organised effort to restructure the region, that is to say, a plan for their implementation. With the questions to the previous Ministers for Development and Infrastructure, we have raised the issues relating to decent housing, the reopening of schools and public services, the reopening of the market, the replacement of the income of professionals, local businesses and workers, the correction of the common ministerial decision exempting many settlements, but also many cases of beneficiaries with the correction of the criteria. The Ministry of the Environment has a key role to play in this whole effort, because it is responsible for the planning of the region's spatial plan. It's been a long time since I've been struggling to move the spatial plan forward. Finally, with the municipality's efforts, the Ministry incorporated the spatial plan into the tender procedure. But the circumstances have changed. At this time the spatial plan must take into account the major disasters and especially the fact that all small settlements which have been destroyed in large proportion cannot be rebuilt unless local towns are built. The second element concerns larger cities such as Arkalochori, where the town plan has been in its final publication for a literally and not done. If this process is not completed, the polluted buildings that have apparently collapsed and cannot be rebuilt unless their owners get the new plots. So, since backgrounds and spatial planning are essential for the organised reconstruction of the region, the question to you is: What are you going to do so that the spatial plan specifications are adapted to the new data? What are you going to do about the immediate publication of the Arkalochori town plan and the promotion of the Kastelion town plan? And, of course, we must look at the issues that have to do with the local urbanisation of the settlements which have been hit to a large extent and, of course, the possible relocation of one or two settlements, which, for other reasons, must be relocated, as the Prime Minister accepted my proposal for the settlement of Rusochori. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u75	And we thank Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, respecting and aware of your anxiety and your sensitivity to your particular place of origin, but also to the wider area affected by the last earthquake and in agreement with the comments, but also to the proposals you have made on reconstruction following a difficult event that has brought about disasters, I think that we definitely need holistic planning, productive reconstruction and an organisation of order in the area, so that after the disaster at least something is planned properly, organised properly, to function and efficiently in the local society, but also in Crete, I would say, more generally. With regard in particular to the Special Urban Plan of the Municipality of Minoa Fields, as you know, the notice is on "air". By the middle of next month, tenders from potential candidates will be submitted and immediately thereafter will begin, with an estimated one-year period, to complete the Special Urban Plan. The budget of this study concerning the Municipality of Minoa Pedadas is 1.400,000 euros without VAT. I would like to say to you, because you, too, have rightly referred to this, and after the latest events, namely the earthquake that has shown special characteristics in the region, that the specific urban plans, as well as local urban plans - which I am going to mention in my dentistry - have been updated, are clearly much richer in terms of studies that include in relation to old general urban plans. Four studies are: The main study, the strategic environmental impact study, the geological suitability study. And here he comes and answers the issue of earthquakes and coefficients, my dear colleague. Also demarcations, land use is defined, construction conditions are defined, urban areas are defined, urban planning extensions, demarcations are demarcated. You referred to some settlements before. It is either settlements with landslides, such as the Rusohori area, or settlements affected by the construction of the airport in Kastelli. Whatever happens, however, it is a happy time that all these peculiarities and the additives that have arisen due to the latest events give us the possibility - and already provided for in the existing standards - to add additives and studies that have to do with the climate crisis, with natural disasters, such as earthquakes, traffic studies, productive reconstruction, particularly after natural disasters. I would like, therefore, to say to you - and I will continue then not to take any more than your time - that all that is already included in the drafting of the special town plans, as is the case with the Municipality of Minoa, is covered by the requirements you mentioned before. I'll fill in my dentistry. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, too. Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u78	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased with the Ministry's intentions and will, but I am not satisfied with the planned timetables and procedures. That is why, Mr Minister, I would once again like to stress the need in the context of spatial planning for immediate priorities: First of all, there must be a fast track process of local planning in the settlements that have been largely destroyed. They cannot be rebuilt, stoned on the other if there is no such local building in the area that has already been destroyed and it is a bunch of stones now. Secondly, two new models of settlements must be put first and foremost, one concerning the relocation of the village of Rusohoria, which is at the edge of the airport corridor and does not mean building new houses in the same position, and the other is a settlement that will solve problems for the rest of the owners, residents affected, who will not ultimately be able to build. Thirdly, the immediate publication of the Arkalochori town plan. It's all done. Geological studies, suspensions, objections, everything. This is a final meeting of the SYPTORA, which could not be held because of a pandemic - that is why it is now missing - and its publication. I think it's immediate. Of course, the promotion of the Kastelli town plan. These are the immediate priorities for me. So, to do all this, I will ask you to follow a different procedure from the technical chambers which carry out the procedure, of course. I do not think there is a chance that there will be any objections, that there will be no problems. And, unfortunately, the award time after which the implementation time begins will be too long. They can't be lost, not one year, not six months, not three more. I believe that by means of legislation similar to that which has been done for the Eye we should take the process at the stage where the village of the Municipality of Minoa Pedias is located with those who have so far been interested in giving an offer and continuing the process with the very fast fast fast fast track procedure provided for in the emergency cases as we have now and assigning to the planning of the spatial plan. We therefore agree on the intentions and objectives, but we have a great deal of disagreement on the procedure. And I want you, in the next few hours - and not days - to consider this possibility, if possible, so as to immediately assign the Minoan Field Plan to a contractor. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u79	And I thank Mr. Kegeroglu. Minister, you have the floor to close the circle of questions and answer Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u80	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I said at the outset, I will now say that I respect the anxiety, but I also share the need to speed up the process of launching and completing the plan. As I said before, the competitive process is already on the "air" and the next month the tenders will be submitted, with estimated time, unless there are objections, by the end of the year, the beginning of next, i.e. January, to have the scholar to start the study and with a time of completion of the study a year. I want to tell you that such a design in a year to complete so many studies, with such procedures, has never been. Do you know how many years did the general urban plans, which replace the Special Urban Plan in a wider area? They've done twenty and thirty years. In Eye a year we set as the goal of completing the special town plan. So as time is the same here. Be assured that we will monitor and personally monitor developments. If it takes any intervention to be able to minimize times, make sure we do. As far as the need for the transport of settlements is concerned, I told you that the special urban planning tool, precisely because it is adopted by a presidential decree, so there is legal certainty, and this could not be done before - and the settlements should be demarcated and town plans extended and practical interventions should be made for Rusochori for the reasons you mentioned or for other settlements due to landslide phenomena. It is therefore the golden opportunity through the disaster to do something that will at least organise and launch the development of the area that has suffered so many damage, to develop and regenerate something more organised that can withstand time, which will create conditions for both quality of life and the environment, and for society as a whole. With these remarks, I repeat and respect your anxiety and tell you that it is our agony, but also our responsibility, to the objectives you have set - and I am referring to the times - we will be here and we will be together to monitor developments. And I repeat, if it takes any intervention to find the right solution, the complete plan in the shortest time, you can be sure we will.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-10-08-S1-commons.u82	With the agreement of the House at 11.58 p.m. the sitting is closed for Monday, 11 October 2021 at 9 p.m., on the subject of this House's work: a) parliamentary scrutiny, topical and urgent debate and b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
