ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS In writing, the Secretary-General for Legal and Parliamentary Affairs shall inform the House of the following: "We hereby inform you about the topical and urgent questions debate within the parliamentary scrutiny of Monday 7 June 2021 that the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: Questions Nos 813/28-5-2021 and 832/31-5-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Culture and Sports Mr Styliani Mendoni. Question No 812/28-5-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Question No 819/31-5-2021 will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food, Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanon. The Questions Nos 803/24-5-2021, 809/28-5-2021, 811/28-55/2021, 814/30-55/2021 and 818/31-5/2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health Mr. Questions Nos 810/28-5-2021, 821/31-5-2021 and 822/31-5-2021 will be answered by the State Secretary for Civil Protection Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. Question No 806/26-5-2021, 817/31-5-2021, 830/31-5-2021 and Question No 388/101/12-10-2020 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu, pursuant to Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure. The Questions Nos 805/25-5-2021, 808/27-5-2021, 831/31-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Environment and Energy, George Amyras. Question No 820/31-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sports, Mr Nikolaos Drotronmanolakis, and Question No 816/31-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Tourism, Sophia Zacharakis." Ladies and gentlemen, before we move on to the topical questions, let me first announce to the House that the Ministers for Labour and Social Affairs, Economic and Development and Investment, Citizens' Protection, Education and Religion, Health, Culture and Sport, Justice, Infrastructure and Transport, Maritime and Nicosia Policy, Rural Development and Food, Tourism and the Ministers of State, Deputy Ministers of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, as well as the Deputy Minister of Sports and Sports, tabled on 4-6-2021 a draft law on Labour Protection - Independent Authority for Work Promotion and Health - Conservation of the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation for the Elimination of Violence and Harassment in the World of Work - Clarification of the Convention on the Safety and Health of the European Parliament and the Council of 2019. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Ladies and gentlemen, we shall proceed immediately to today's topical and urgent debate and begin with the twelfth number 819/31-5-2021 topical question of the F' Vice-President of Parliament and MP Larissa of the Communist Party of Greece, George Lambroulis, on the subject: "The problem that has arisen with foreign workers in the primary sector". The question will be answered by the Minister for Rural Development and Food Mr Spyridon - Panagiotis Lebanese. Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President. The topical question concerns a serious problem arising under the government's responsibility regarding foreign land workers in Larissa and in other parts of the country. At the same time as the borders opened for tourism, serving the demands and interests of airlines, shipowners and hoteliers, the government is keeping the borders closed for foreign land workers, which are essential for agricultural production. For example - as far as Larisa is concerned, a hundred and fifty posters of seasonal post-emergency land workers have been allocated, who - I am sorry to say - are workers who come to our country at the request of each farmer or farmers, paying a relative paradox, the hundred, and it is a certain number. So for the Larissa Prefecture and for the whole territory, an allocation was made, where for the Larissa Prefecture a hundred and fifty positions were allocated, which were all covered, thus prohibiting entry to others, when only for the needs - on the basis of the previous years' data - for a region of the prefecture, in this case the Municipality of Agias, at least five hundred land workers and others, respectively, are needed for the Tyrnavos region. And then all the time. To remind you that in March, during the vote on a relevant amendment, we had noted that the framework is inadequate, that the needs of the land workers need to be met, and that this cannot be the individual responsibility of each farmer, especially in pandemic conditions, and that the state with the appropriate organisation and all appropriate measures must ensure that the needs of the land workers are met, but also that decent living conditions are ensured and, respectively, that the COVID tests are carried out and that workers are treated, if necessary. At the same time, we have pointed out and stressed that the EUR 100 paradox is excessively burdening farmers and must be abolished. We have now arrived at 'and five', with a great delay, the problem of being stubborn, problems in the harvesting of production, of farmers experiencing another great, huge problem and of course being despaired but also deadlocked, because on the one hand there is a risk that the tree production - and not just - will remain unintentional - and, on the other hand, the fact that they have not been compensated for the enormous damage suffered by the glacier, so that they have been suffocated to economic suffocation. So the questions to the Minister, Mr President, are as follows: Minister, what measures will you take in order to meet the needs of land workers for agricultural work now, directly, and to ensure during the movement and residence of the land workers in the villages and areas where all the necessary health protection measures have to be worked, under the responsibility of the state, and of course to abolish the EUR 100 paradox and return to those who have done so?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u3	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u4	Thank you. First of all, Mr Vice-President, I think none of us wants to create social automation. The government is trying to help all the working groups, all the social classes, to deal with the problems arising from the coronary. So I think it is best not to separate tourism, focus, farms, but to strengthen all branches with the same passion and interest. I accept the interest you are expressing for the land workers and for Larissa and all Greece, but before you the government and our Ministry itself has taken care of it, when in March, after consultation and cooperation with five other ministries, we brought an amendment that had a broad social acceptance - we did not have the pleasure of supporting it you, the JRC, had placed it with the 'courts' at the time - to open up within the new data of the krone and with all the health provisions, but also the work that did not exist in the previous years and to bring the land workers here. In this context recently, about a month ago, we opened a third portal, Crystallopi, apart from the Evzones and Cakavia, so that the land workers enter more quickly and more easily throughout Greece. As to the part of determining the number that comes into each region, this is defined in Article 11 of the Code of Migration and results from a joint ministerial decision of five ministries, not, of course, from our own Ministry, five other ministries. This year, in which, on the basis of paragraph 2 of this Article, the Joint Ministerial Decision takes into account, in order to determine the number of people coming to each administrative region, the proposals made by the employers of each region, the Economic and Social Committee, the OAED and the Region. In this case the requests made on the basis of the requests from the region and the other bodies were for these hundreds of fifty you said about the region yours. With a new request recently, about two weeks ago - I think on 18 May - more has been requested from the Region of Thessaly, namely to increase the number and the government, of course, has responded directly to this request, which you too are asking. So I am pleased to answer that what you are asking and fighting for has already been covered by the government and will increase the number of posts to three thousand seven hundred fifty for 2021 and 2022, of which the two thousand seven hundred fifty will be for seasonal work, the two thousand three hundred will be in the Larissa Regional Unit, for which all four hundred and fifty in Trikala. Therefore, I think you and everyone who listens to us will be happy, because interest is very great. The question and the gap have been covered. However, I repeat that it did not come from anyone's bad mood, the government simply follows the demands of the social actors and the region. As far as the health measures for the movement and residence are concerned, you know very well - and they are constantly in the public debate - that this committee which imposes these measures is working. We had specific measures for border posts, that a seventy-two-hour test must have been preceded, or a full vaccination fourteen days ago, or a certificate of illness or positive diagnosis with the two-to-nine-month PCR must be carried out to avoid the introduction of people, land workers suffering from COVID. At the same time, the standards for the residence of workers have been laid down so that the employer can provide the accommodation which can meet the needs of the workers and should be able to provide the employer who invites the workers to the relevant Immigration and Immigration Service of the Decentralised Administration. The evidence shows that the seasonal worker is actually staying where he says so that there can also be tracking if a person is suffering from COVID. About the third and last part...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u5	Minister, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u6	Okay, second one for 100 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u7	Here, Mr. Lambroulis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. I listened carefully to the Minister. Look, it is not a matter of intentions, as you started your prototype, as far as what has been said and referred to in the question, namely the opening up of tourism and seasonal workers is concerned, but a question of a specific policy. Secondly, we need to make a distinction. You're talking to the numbers you've said and all that. We agree or rather I can't argue because I didn't know. You said that. Accepted. But we are talking about the posters. As far as what happened, which opened the border on Crystals and others, these people enter as tourists, do not enter as a poster. If the numbers you refer to relate to the poster, then it changes the subject. That's the first. Secondly, as you know very well, the seasonal workers are interconnected with agricultural production. This is agricultural production that is tested daily, whether from natural disasters or from various disease agents, diseases, etc., but also because of low prices, which are disproportionate to the cost of production that remains high. Thus, on the one hand, with regard to damages caused by disasters, losses are not covered and are not compensated for 100% of the losses. For this reason, as the farmers claim, funding from the state budget is required, as is the abolition of cuts in the ELGA Regulation. On the other hand, the paradox of EUR 100, in this case for post-harvest land workers, is an extra raisin that overly burdens bio-population farmers, with most of them, who use seasonal workers, to have small and medium-sized farms. This is a joy which, in our view, has to be abolished, which we said since March, by discussing the amendment to which you have referred. Similarly, much more in pandemic conditions, the state should take care to ensure that the land workers concerned are tested with COVID and to ensure that they are checked periodically where they are working during their stay and for as long as they remain in our country. Furthermore, the state itself should ensure that health structures can cover the health problems of land workers, health problems that can arise in the course of their work and their stay in our country. Because we are all aware of the tragic situation in which all governments have led health centres, primary health care. Systemically and over time all issues are left to individual responsibility. And I'm not only talking about health issues, but even about the issue of seasonal land workers. For example, it is up to the farmer's individual responsibility to take the necessary steps to get the post-employer to come, to pay the paradox of 100 euros, to secure a roof, etc. Similarly, we need a safeguard, something we stress, and I will tell you why I say it. You may have said that there are preconditions for the accommodation of the land workers, the posters, seasonals, etc., but how will the problem be solved, for example, in the wider Tyrnavos area, and in Elassona, when most villages with the largest production base in the region have suffered huge damage from the recent earthquakes and the retired or seasonal land workers have no place to stay and stand up and leave? I was told yesterday by the peasants of Tyrnavos. They have nowhere to take them. So, should the state take care in this direction or not and not just depend on a signature, if you wish, or a commitment from the farmer, who will - anyway - lease and have - the slavery of the land workers? So we all raise the issue of land workers, their needs as part of their work here in our country and, of course, the necessary measures to be taken towards respecting all the health protocols that are needed at this time of pandemic.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr. Lambroulis. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, I'm starting with the last one, Mr. President. I understand both your anxiety and your sensitivity to the region and especially to the farmers who have confessed to have been severely affected this year by both glaciers, but also by the hail, phenomena resulting from climate change that changes everything. But you will allow me to say, with all due respect for you, that you do not have the only privilege of sensitivity. On the contrary, the Ministry of Agriculture...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u11	I'm not blaming you for your sensitivity. Is that what you understand? I'm not questioning your sensitivity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u12	We're all sensitive. Let's go to the record now. Carry on, Mr. Levane, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u13	So, in this context, I think that both the Ministry of Rural Development and Food and the ELGA have proved to be difficult and last year and this year that they responded to an absolute degree much faster, with absolute sensitivity and effectiveness. I do not want to say things that I have said in this Chamber again, and I think the majority of Greek farmers and Greek citizens know about how we faced both the 'January' and the other disasters this year and last year. I just want to say that in the next few days we will make the roadmap public and for strengthening our farmers who have been hit in Central Greece by ice. You know very well - everyone involved knows - that we have made a great deal of effort both within and outside the borders on this issue, so that we can respond. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Minister hits the warning bell.]] However, coming back to your question to close it, I think you have not observed at all what we have brought in the amendment, because if you had done so, you would have been covered in what you said. We practically changed the frame of admission and work of the land workers this year and covered a great gap that existed. That is, until this year, the land workers came with a tourist visa and worked illegally. What we have done this year - and that is why the amendment we tabled in March was welcomed by almost all of society and farmers - is that workers in agricultural work are now legally entering and working legally. This is how they are controlled by the Ministry of Labour because they pay for their work. That's how it should have happened. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] So I think maybe you haven't noticed that. We're on a lot better fate than you imagined. In this context, the paradox of EUR 100 - which in other cases, such as in the case of a revocation for a dependent job, amounts to EUR 200 - goes right to every employer, as should be, so that all these needs of the public fund can be met. You, of course, have the comfort at this time to say that the Treasury could have inexpensive revenues from somewhere else - but you do not identify us from where else - we...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u14	That's what we're asking you, why don't we just let it go...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u15	However, what we consider is - and I think it also covers your ideology - that the employer has some obligations on workers. So we are also trying to secure the part of the resources that they need and the rights of those people who come to work to get a reward, because they need it. Of course, we are fully respecting the farmers, and that is why we are creating a modern, democratic and effective framework for farmers themselves. Now, as to what you referred to in relation to accommodation, I do not know that. I am, however, at your disposal to tell me where and how and how to see what else we can do in cooperation with the region in order to meet these needs. I think that if you read what I have just said, you will see that you have been covered by our answers and, above all, by the part that I have told you at the beginning - which there is no ideological difference - on the question of who pays and what, on the number of workers in the Larissa region and more extensively in Thessaly from now on and on the basis of the requests from the region and from farmers in the region. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u16	Good, Minister, thank you. We continue with the first with the number 812/28-5-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of Nea Efstratios (Stratou) Simopoulos to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: “Multification of school halls in the area of western Thessaloniki”. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Mr. Simopoulos, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is well known that in recent years there has been a very major explosion in the region of western Thessaloniki, a population explosion which was erupted at the beginning of 2000, but an explosion which we expect to intensify in the years to come, because cowards have already started to rebuild the region. This population explosion obviously also brought about the need for more, more school roofs, mainly because in western Thessaloniki they chose to live new couples. I would therefore like to point out that for several years - particularly after 2015 - the construction of the building facilities which had been launched has stopped, so that we have dozens of new school rooms in the region. Indeed, the upgrade program of municipal schools has stopped. I am well aware that the municipalities at this time are constantly growing new projects and in cooperation with the "Creative Infrastructures" and the region they intend to implement them. So what I would like to know for specific schools is what you intend to do in this direction. These schools are the 25th Primary School of Evosmos, the 2nd Municipal School of Polichni, the 12th Municipal School and the 11th Polychni Primary School. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u18	Mr Karamanlis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u19	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Simopoulos, thank you for your question. Before I refer to the school units of western Thessaloniki, I can tell you that there are indeed needs for upgrading school buildings or creating new school units in several areas of the country and the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport along with the Ministry of Education we see all these needs closely. We also have a service - you know it well because you have also injected into the position of Secretary-General of Infrastructure - the so-called 'Building Infrastructures', the CBC, which I will tell you below what action has taken in the specific school buildings, the school units of the three municipalities to which you have referred. Before going to this I would like to tell you that we are not only concerned with major projects, which are railroad projects, they are roads, they are related to the creation and upgrading of the ports or the upgrading of our airports. We are also concerned with the so-called small projects, which have a direct imprint in society, the daily lives of citizens, and of course we have a particular sensitivity when it comes to the quality of life of children. And here's, if you want, and our difference with the previous government. You are giving me the opportunity to refer very quickly to the programme that we have done in central Macedonia. We have advanced the processes for the construction of seventeen new modern and bioclimatic school units. These, ladies and gentlemen, and Mr Simopoulos, we have done with the PPP, because we are not just relying on the Public Investment Programme, which everyone knows is not enough. We want to use other tools like PPPs. This process, public-private partnerships, especially in central Macedonia, is moving very rapidly and applications have been lodged from many serious, I would say, construction companies to have modern units now. Let's go to the three bands for which you're asking me. You talk about the 2nd Municipal School of Polichni, the 12th Municipal School and the 11th Preschool of the Municipality of Paul Mela and the 25th Municipal School of Evosmos. Starting with the 2nd Polychni School. Here we see some vulnerabilities of the Greek public. The municipality - and rightly so - commissioned control and investigation of the school building's capacity to an external scholar and identified huge problems in the building. We are talking about a building in the 1970s, which had neither building permit nor static calculations. The only available data were some architectural designs, which were drawn up by the Technical Service of the Municipality of Paul Mela. The positive element is that we unleashed this canvas that I mentioned to you and on 8 April the "Building Infrastructures" decided to approve the study of the proclamation of economic and contractual issues for the electronic tender. The budget for the study - and I shall return to my dentistry with the other two schools, Mr President - is EUR 129 000. He's enlisted in a number. The invitation to tender was posted at KIMDIS on 26 May and the closing date for the submission of tenders is 22 June. This study is very important. We check the static adequacy of the building, if you like, so that students and teachers can safely be housed. I'll be right back in the case of the other two points in my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u20	Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u21	Minister, from what I understand, and for the other two schools, it will be your answer as positive, so I consider it to be given, and on the basis of that reality, I come to secondary. What I would like to stress is that, in fact, cooperation with the CBYP, as with the Secretary-General of Infrastructure, is impeccable, and that is why Western Thessaloniki feels that the projects are growing much faster and that the needs that exist mainly in the Municipality of Evosmos and also in the Municipality of Naples - Sicily, in the region of Regzios, will be met. There are demands that I understand that many times they are outside the scope of not only the state, but many times they are too much. I know, however, that, especially in this particular area and in particular in the two I mentioned, the problem is too great. I also emphasise that there was a programme to upgrade school halls in municipal schools with money from the European Investment Bank, which ran to Attica, brought it to Thessaloniki pilots, but at the beginning of 2015 it stopped as a project. I would like you to take this into account and see if we can continue from where we stopped. I would also like to stress another very important project that I know you have advanced. It is the Art School in the Municipality of Ampelokipou - Menemeni. It has matured too much as far as the property regime is concerned. There is still funding for the land market from the EBRD. It is a project of great importance to the whole region. All the other problems have been solved and I think that with this project we will give growth impetus to an area that has been feeling in recent years that resources are stopping somewhere in Bardar. We need these people to stand side by side and understand that there is resources for the whole of Thessaloniki. I think you can move in such a direction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u23	Thank you, Mr President. I would now like to go back to the second school unit you asked me about, Mr Simopoulos, and it is about the 12th elementary school and the 11th kindergarten. These two buildings, the school units, are in the Municipality of Paul Mela. This complex is therefore to be erected on a plot of three acres. The issue with this plot was that the study had been carried out. She, however, has a few problems, because she deviates from the Ministry's livestock and data programmes. For this reason, a building project has been drawn up to improve the architectural location of the ground floor in order to be sent to the relevant Directorate of the Ministry of Education. Here I would stress something that may not be clear that we must come in full consultation and contact with the Ministry of Education, be in good cooperation, so that they give us their specifications for the building and organization of teaching rooms. So we are also there on a good footing to get out of this problem too so that we know that when this school is delivered, it will be with the standards that they need. I'm closing with the 25th Evros Municipal School, to which you referred. Here we have completed the studies, and improvements have been made in line with the CFP guidelines and we are now starting drafting a budget and the tender documents. So in this case we're in the auction phase of the project. The architectural study is being checked and we will do all we can to proceed with the issue of building permits. I will tell you here that this project has already received funding from the EDP. We are talking about a project whose budget is EUR 5.690,000. His tender begins in about a month, early July. It is therefore clear that we have developed, as you have mentioned, a complete design for both large and small infrastructure projects. In our design priority is to strengthen the school units of the country, especially in areas such as western Thessaloniki, an area that has an incredible population growth, as opposed to other areas of the region that have school units that are basically closed down. But what are we doing here? Here we are strengthening existing structures, planning to implement new structures where they are needed, using tools without ideological claws, such as the PPPs, and like the seventeen schools that I mentioned to you. And as I think it is reflected in the answers I have given you, we are not just talking, but we are doing things. The truth is that in recent years school units have not been in the priorities of the previous government. Here we have to use smart tools. The PPPs have been used in the past, because we actually have a school for which maintenance and creation is undertaken. I therefore think that this tool should be used more flexiblely and in the best possible way. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Next is the tenth third under number 820/31-5-2021, a topical question from the SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr. Elisabeth (Bettet) Scooter to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "The financial support of our country's cultural clubs is necessary". The Secretary of State for Culture and Sport will answer Mr Nikolaos Drotronmanolakis. Mrs. Scouffa has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Doctor, today's question should normally not even take place because ten questions have already been asked in a period of one year by all the parties in this House - I say this for the sake of knowledge. It's a question, then, every month. The first observation is that the Ministry of Culture, because I found it myself, had a copy of the question of how to support cultural clubs across Greece. We are also in a highly problematic situation in the area of culture in general. Artists, opera, lighting workers, etc., every three and a little is outside the ministry. But the area of popular culture, unfortunately, is inflamed. The government has not practically supported the tens of thousands of cultural clubs in the country, cultural clubs which translate the history of Hellenism, transform our roots, carry the legends, traditions from the ancestral homes of Hellenism in Asia Minor, Pontto, in the mountains of Epirus, in Crete. And all these major cultural valleys a year are closed, one year they have no revenue for their fixed costs and already many of these major cultural clubs have been closed down. So the questions are two. Firstly, if, at last, the government will support cultural associations across the country that are non-profit unions, so they cannot enter the existing financial aid measures. If you give them, that is, even a one-off subscription for their fixed expenses. Secondly, if there is any programming for this summer's events, nor will this summer be lost not only from the clubs' revenue but also from the popular holidays in the villages. They're live cells. People's celebrations, festivals and events. Perhaps the only living civilization cell for our villages. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Secretary, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u27	Mr President, thank you very much. Mrs. Scouffa, thank you very much for the question. I will start with what we agree with. I would agree that this question should not take place. Give me a few minutes and you'll understand why. I would, however, particularly agree with the importance of cultural societies and cultural institutions throughout Greece for culture, for our intangible cultural heritage and for all these traits that are described and with which I fully agree. We have written in response to the questions that have been asked that the framework is very specific. The Ministry of Culture, through the grant procedure it grants from the law, has a specific orientation. It can grant exclusively cultural actions. What does that mean? It means that neither in the case of cultural unions nor in other cases, even theatrical or dance groups, can cover fixed costs, light, water, telephone, rent, so to speak. The law doesn't allow it. That's a given thing we have. And that was foreseeable on SYRIZA - ANEL. There was no change in that from us. That's right. First of all, we cannot give anyone a fixed body except for actions. In addition to that, these agencies, because they usually have a multitude of activities that go beyond what defines purely cultural action, do not even fall within us. They may make excursions, they may take some other actions. They are subject to the Ministry of Development. They can come to us - and come - to register, participate in grants and get resources from there. That's what happened last year. We made fourteen calls to which they submitted proposals and received money from the cultural clubs and clubs. That's what happened this year. He's in progress. That's what I can say in more detail in dentistry. But beyond that, precisely because we understand their importance, something I don't know if you've realised it because it was relatively recently. It was before the date on which you submitted the question. Therefore, following a relevant consultation of the relevant Ministries, a ministerial decision of the Minister, the Deputy Minister of Finance and the Deputy Minister of Finance entitled ‘Increased specific purpose compensation for the support of enterprises due to the emergence and dissemination of the COVID-19 Coronary for April 2020-2021’ was adopted. This Decision states that, in the scope of the beneficiaries, the entities listed in the register of cultural actors of the General Secretariat of Contemporary Culture of the Ministry of Culture and Sport on 1 April 2021, irrespective of activity number (CCI). This means that all those - which are many - the cultural unions and associations of our country that are registered for our own, the register of cultural actors will receive the following amount: Without prejudice to the limits of cumulation, the increased special allowance will be EUR 1 000 for beneficiaries of zero to five employees, EUR 2 000 for beneficiaries of six to twenty-five employees and EUR 4 000 for beneficiaries who employ twenty-three to forty-nine employees according to the elements of the "ERGANI" system. This has been announced since 17 May. That is the basic question you have asked, for one single support. That is the basic answer. Anything else in dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u28	Mrs. Scouffa, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u29	I'll start with the technocratic economic piece. I have the impression - I say without reservation - that this subsidy you have just mentioned is a joy to say that you also mentioned companies from zero to some workers, because the cultural clubs understand that they do not have stable and permanent workers and are based on the province and I am sorry to say it, because in Athens there is usually no in-depth picture of the rest of the territory and the province. So cultural associations in the province do not have workers. Strictly and only based on volunteering. Secondly, it is not - I say again - speculative companies. In other words, we cannot put them into an economic aid measure which I do not know is such a precondition and the advance payment number seven has to be lost. If it is designed for business, most of the province's cultural clubs will unfortunately still not catch them. Apart from the economic aspect, however, and beyond the fact that the Ministry of Culture has so far placed unilateral emphasis on younger and modern culture, I would say rather over time. A central demand for cultural clubs across the country is, if you like, to have a special secretariat of people's culture in the Ministry of Culture and to have a continuous and stable framework for supporting the people's culture, our local tradition, the culture that the local communities produce, which is not a marketable asset. So the request is a general framework - and I say again - support for people's culture in general and also attention to the repayable advance on seven, because for the conditions I have mentioned, for the loss of revenue compared to two years, it may still not be able to cover the cultural clubs. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u30	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u31	Thank you very much. First of all, I am glad that we probably shifted the issue, which means you probably understood that there is a care very clearly on the part of the state. I also want to tell you that what you say about the returnee does not apply. This ministerial decision that I read to you before and described to you is designed so that the cultural clubs in our country can actually receive this financial support. There is therefore no question of that. From there on, because you said in your prototype, Mrs Skoufa, that they are all outside the Ministry, you said, and it is very interesting, and let me say this. The operas the last time they were outside our ministry was to thank us, because we did what had not been done for the past twenty years. What did we do? We have arranged for their own insurance codes so that they can be insured as a perpetrator and not as something else on living issues and listeners. I therefore ask that we be a little careful and follow up the work carried out in this part, because progress has actually been made, which has not been achieved for too many years now. You also said two other things, which are interesting. You must be the only one in Parliament, which considers that there is greater support for modern culture in the Ministry of Culture. Contemporary culture has suffered over time. This Prime Minister, this government, was the first to read the need for a General Secretariat to be in the first phase and then a Secretary-General's Office, such a position for modern culture. Until now, modern civilization has been far shortened not only in funding, but also in attention and interest from the state. But let's say one more thing. You said about the need for special invitations to the people's heritage. I would like to tell you that there are and let me read to you some current calls that exist. There is the Department of Intangible Cultural Heritage within the Ministry, which has a very important work. So, at the moment, I'm reading you priorities and invitations that have come out with this: Traditional Professions and Arts "The Greek Mastoria", highlighting the cultural value of traditional arts and professions. Agrarian Heritage. Create a local and thematic index of Intangible Cultural Heritage. Elements of intangible cultural heritage registered in the National Index of Intangible Cultural Heritage of Greece, actions to study, highlight, with particular emphasis on their transformation into younger generations. Popular Celebrations and Acting, studying preservation and promotion to the general public of their importance, including in order to maintain cohesion and reduce local communities. Musical, dance and other performances that will highlight traditional music, folk dance and, in general, intangible cultural heritage as sources of inspiration and reflection. Actions to promote cultural landscapes, with emphasis on rural areas, that is to say, the importance of cultural landscapes to the general public and the creation and enrichment of alternative, cultural tourism programmes. Study, safeguarding and highlighting collective memory, with particular importance for the reconstruction and coherence of local communities and communities. I will add to this an invitation that we made from modern culture, especially this year, on the occasion of the hundred years of the Asia Minor Destruction and the memory of history, an area in which many cultural clubs and unions are active throughout the country. I think that this is how you see that there is a strategy and a care to fund actions and actions such as those described, but also their study and their safeguarding and research. We look at the research track, but we recognize them in practice as live cells and elements of contemporary cultural creation. I'm not going to the numbers, the number of funding. With pleasure to give them to you, there are all the numbers and there is what happened and in 2018, which were much less both in 2017 and 2019. So I think you have received the answers you wanted. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u32	Thank you, too. We continue with the eighth under the number 806/26-5-2021 topical question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The OAED professional schools." The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Labour and Social Affairs, Mr Panagiotis Tsakloglu. Here, Mr. Delis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u33	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, in December last year, your Government voted for N.4763 on vocational education, a law which is of course cut and sewn into the measures of businessmen for fresh, juvenile and, above all, cheap skilled labour, which will be denied the right to general education and education from the fourteen more years to be effectively taken into child labour. This law, among other things, has hit both the educational and labour rights of pupils of OAED professional schools, as it reduces their degree and schools from level 4 professional rights and qualifications at level 3. It adds another obstacle to their studies, as in order to receive this level 3 degree, the degraded one, is obliged to provide certification tests to the EEAA. And all these negative developments for OAS students have voted that they will be implemented since this year, changing to half the year what the students knew when they were enrolled in these schools. All this, of course, as you can see, has caused - and fairly they have caused - a large wave of protests and mobilisations, racing actions by students from these schools across Greece. Almost every week, Minister, there are mobilizations which the government despises, proving once again that it is far from the real needs of students, since instead of ensuring the safe operation of the OAED professional schools, instead of ensuring suitable buildings, rooms, modern equipment, workshops, permanent teachers, not apprenticeships in the air as they are now, but with monthly income and effective supervision by your Ministry of Labour, what did the government do? In the pandemic and with schools closed, the law on vocational education was passed. Meanwhile, those children who have not been able to find a business for apprenticeship have absolutely no income all this time, and some of those who had started the apprenticeship remain unpaid for months and with their contracts on parole. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] So we ask you, Minister - we are also asking the Ministry of Labour, we have asked the Ministry of Education - what you will do to ensure that this law does not apply to the downgrading of the degree for students already in OAS professional schools to ensure an income for all these pupils, to be paid for the entire pandemic period, and what measures will you take to ensure that schools operate safely in health and with appropriate infrastructures. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u34	Thank you, Mr. Delis. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u35	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, first of all I would like to thank you for your question because you are giving me an opportunity to address a particularly important issue which is one of the main priorities of the Government and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs in our planning for the next day of the economy after the pandemic. I am referring to the overall upgrading of vocational education and training and the linking of the skills and competences of our young people with the real needs of the economy and the labour market at a time when changes, due to the development of technology, are rapid at all levels. Before I go to the essence of your question, let me point out that the stake is great for young people, but also for our economy. The lack of matching between the qualifications of young workers and the needs of the labour market denies opportunities and prospects for young people, but also growth potential from our own economy. What does that mean? Based on the long-term projections for the evolution of the demand for qualifications in the labour market, it is imperative that we invest in upgrading vocational education and training. By 2030 it is estimated that level 3, 4 and 5 qualifications relating primarily to vocational education and training will account for around two thirds of the jobs. In other words, technicians and professional craftsmen are expected to have greater importance in the economy in the future and hence better prospects of professional rehabilitation. On the other hand, according to the skills index of CEDEFOP, namely the European Centre for the Development of Vocational Training, Greece ranks among thirty-one countries. In other words, the following oxymomile is happening: while there is an increased demand for specific technical professions, there is no corresponding supply, while youth unemployment in our country remains high. That is why we have launched an important reform of this critical area of education. The most effective way to achieve this is by direct and effective interconnection with the real needs of the economy. In relation to your first question, which concerns the possibility of completing the studies of already students in OAED vocational apprenticeship schools on the basis of their institutional framework of introduction, OAED and the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is in constant contact with the Ministry of Education on this subject and any decision will be announced by the Ministry of Education, which is responsible for the specific legislation under Law 4763/2020. Mr Delis, the need for investment in knowledge, skills and skills throughout the life of individuals and in all areas of education and training is imperative. In this context, I was impressed by your reference to the question - which you have said before - that you consider as an obstacle to study and the deterioration of their degree in certification by the EEA, namely, the organisation that is the performance of lifelong learning. This agency develops and implements an integrated national system for the certification of non-formal education, initial and continuing vocational training and adult education and provides scientific support for professional guidance and advice services in our country. In 2021, do you not want the skills of young people, namely professional craftsmen? I should like to point out that, following the completion of the two-year course at OAED's vocational apprenticeship schools, the school is awarded to graduates attesting to vocational education, with which pupils are entitled to participate in the EEA certification examinations which will be carried out at least once a year and which will lead to the acquisition of a level 3 professional training degree, i.e. the skilled craftsman. In addition, under Law 4763/2020 for OAS vocational apprenticeship schools, their institutional autonomy in the system of secondary vocational education is guaranteed. They continue to function while in the previous Act they were intended to be abolished by the end of 2022. The dual nature of the education they offer and the full medical and pension insurance of pupils is maintained. The remuneration of apprentices carrying out apprenticeships in enterprises shall be guaranteed as a percentage of the wages paid by the unskilled worker. The OAED's vocational apprenticeship schools remain at level 3 of formal vocational education as it has been. Operation of OAED experimental vocational schools in cooperation with social partners, chambers and sectoral bodies shall be ensured. Finally, the amendment included in Article 10 of L.4783/2021 ensures the smooth financing of professional apprenticeship schools, experimental vocational schools and work-training programmes from national and Union resources. You have two more questions, I'll answer my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u36	Good. Mr. Delis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u37	Thank you, Mr President. Look, about the professional rights and certification from the EEA, what do you say to these students? That their degree is at the level of professional qualifications 3 and that they acquire the right to be certified, take part in the certification examinations to obtain a certificate of professional qualifications 3. Undersecretary, these children, these students who studied until December at the OAED professional schools, their degree said they had a level 4 professional qualifications. And we don't. It's one of those schools, Larissa's OAED professional school. I'll submit it to the Minutes. Among other things, it says that professional rights are level 4. The Minister for Education has said so before, and the government has said so. This is not the case, it is not true what the government claims that these students were always at level 3. It has always been at the level of 4 professional rights and the vote of this law is a deterioration of their degrees other than others. That's what this is about. To connect to the labour market and deterioration, I want to say something. Look, you're talking about linking to the labour market and upgrading study. How will the upgrading of these schools, of these studies, of these degrees be done? With the outdated mechanical equipment, with the building problem that it calls anymore, with the deterioration not only of the diplomas but also of the logistical conditions under which this vocational training is provided? But I wanted to stand, Mr Secretary-General, on our main question, the first rather question, regarding the fact that they should be excluded from the application of the law. First of all, we say that the law should be abolished, that this degradation of their degree from 4 to 3 should be abolished, but in any case it should not apply to those who are already in school, because they have entered on other terms. The Government cannot change the terms of study and the degree during the course of a student, a student. So, first of all, we have the statement by the Governor of the OAED, Mr Protossalitis, on 19 March, on a television channel, which says that transitional provisions are being considered. We have the day before yesterday - and this is the most important thing - of Mr Vucinou's statement - we have learned from the communication that these children have made following their meeting at the Ministry of Education - that the government will have an arrangement that says they will get their degrees on the basis of the status with which they entered these schools. So far we have not seen this arrangement, we hope that it will be done soon, and we are all aware of it, especially those children who see us and listen to us at the moment, the power that the struggles have, the results that these struggles bring, sooner or later. Because they fought these children to conquer this and they watch and watch the government. The conclusion is that the struggles are working. The games that have no effect are those that never happen. Finally, we also insist on the abolition, as a whole, of the unacceptable law and of the relevant provision downgrading the degrees. You also spoke a moment ago - and I conclude - about upgrading. You said that the government was speaking, and the Minister for Education here in her reply, that it brings order, anyway, in this area. In any case, we do not think that any class comes in when a degree is downgraded, nor when young people put a deep hand in the pocket to study. It does not, of course, come into order when we have such a shortage of teachers, such a long delay in apprenticeship - and this must be seen by the competent, your Ministry - and so badly maintained facilities. Let this happen, let the government really see to it that we upgrade technological and vocational education and then talk about everything else. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u38	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u39	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, I am going directly to your second sub-degree, to which you referred earlier, concerning the payment of students whose apprenticeship contracts are suspended. According to information from the OAED, his administration has acted in good time since the pandemic principle, making a recommendation to the relevant Ministry, which was accepted for the adoption of a special provision. On the basis of this provision, the remuneration of apprentices of the vocational apprenticeship schools who had an active apprenticeship contract for the period of validity of the temporary suspension of the life of the training process, including the suspension of the practical training. With this action, the agency has ensured the payment of the salaries of the apprentices of the vocational schools of apprenticeships in a timely manner not to carry out their practice because of the pandemic. In addition, a joint ministerial decision in the year 2021 ensures that apprenticeship positions are subsidised to public and private bodies. The Joint Ministerial Decision was signed on 19-5-2021 and concerns the subsidisation of the apprenticeship and practice of those employed in the public sector, public sector bodies, local government bodies, enterprises of local government bodies, private enterprises, farms, as well as cooperatives. With regard to your third question, which concerns the government's measures to safely open apprenticeship schools and modernise the workshops, I would like to say that on Monday, May 10, OAED's vocational apprenticeship schools were reopened by live educational process throughout the territory and on Monday 24 May, the practical exercise of apprentices in the framework of the apprenticeship programme at the workplace began by carrying out the self-diagnostic test once a week. The OAED continues with concrete actions in the current school year, 2020-21, to strengthen and upgrade the quality of the services provided to the OAEDs. Some of these are: Application for the first time of an electronic process at all stages of the recruitment of special educational staff as well as the applications of the candidates. Direct application of tele­vision at all school units during the pandemic. The provision of portable electronic devices (tablets) for students wishing to do so for the purpose of monitoring telematics. The compensation of all apprentices for the period of suspension of practical training in enterprises because of the pandemic. Integration into ESDP programmes for energy upgrading of buildings. This has already been done in the EPA of Kavala, it has been done in the PSAP of Tower and there are other proposals that are in a phase of evaluation. Finally, the transfer of know-how from other European Union countries to the construction and operation of a 'green' school in the Kozani EPA. In addition, in the context of the new NSRP 2021-2027 programming period, as well as the Recovery and Resilience Fund, comprehensive proposals have been submitted to upgrade the institution of apprenticeship as a whole, including significant reforms and investments in infrastructure of half a billion euro. Evidently not just for EPAs. I am referring to the whole field of apprenticeship. Young people and young people have already recognised this effort to upgrade the institution of apprenticeship by the OAED administration and for the first time after a long time, in the current school year, 2020-2021, the number of applications has increased by 35% and the number of entries by 13%, following a long depreciation of the professional apprenticeship schools and a continuous reduction in demand on the part of the students that had taken place over the past five years. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u40	And we thank the Minister. We continue with the eleventh question under number 830/31-5-2021 of a topical question by the Member of the Heraklion Parliament of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "The immediate declaration of the Classical Collective Convention of Hotels as compulsory". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the question refers to an area which has suffered a great deal of pressure from pandemic and that is none other than tourism. In particular, we are talking about workers in tourism, food, and, of course, I shall make my secondary speech and refer to transport workers and, in particular, to tourist buses. While, therefore, the government has made considerable progress in supporting hotels and catering units at less but also significant levels, workers see that there is no equivalent support for everyone, thus there are significant problems. They identify a problem for workers who do not have the right to re-entry, which is many months now without income. In relation to the unilateral suspensions made last year and granted the right via an electronic platform, the signals have not yet appeared since last year. Also, it will be late for the platform to function - the end of the month they say - for the unilateral suspension. In any case, there are issues, but the most important one, which is the main request of the hotel officials, is to declare the extension of the collective labour agreement signed in the previous period, the collective agreement that solves issues, the collective agreement which will ensure the working peace that we need, so that the relaunching, which is already at the door, is in a way that will benefit both the economy and the workers and local communities. And as regards this request, while there has been a meeting of the Labour Council and, according to the information, there has been a debate at this meeting, there has not yet been the Minister's decision to make it compulsory for the industry as a whole. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u42	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Mr Kegeroglu, it is more than obvious - I think we have already discussed this here on several occasions - that the country's economy has been deeply affected by the health crisis because of their considerable contribution to GDP which have been very steadfast and one of them was definitely the tourism sector. According to estimates by the World Tourism Organization, last year the overall reduction of international tourist flows was close to 75% compared to the previous year. For the Greek economy, tourism is a central pillar of growth with a great contribution to GDP and employment, as well as to investments and especially to the current account balance. Its importance is reinforced, considering its interaction with other sectors, such as focus, entertainment and transport. That is precisely why the government has moved on to such a reinforced and broad grid of support for these sectors. Overall, the government has acted methodically and targetedly from the beginning of the pandemic for as long as possible global and full support for businesses and workers. Since the beginning of the pandemic, 36.5 billion has been spent on households and business support. Already, in 2020, 24 billion has been spent, and in 2021, it is planned to spend 11.5 billion, above the initial forecast of the budget for interventions of 7.5 billion. And all this within the well-known restrictive financial framework which the country has as a whole given the amount of its debt. Only in the Ministry of Labour the level of payments for a protection net in the labour market has exceeded EUR 7 billion, while only the beneficiaries of the actions of our Ministry exceed three million people. The EMPLOYMENT Programme is extended, as well as the provision of grants through the programme for the creation of 100 000 jobs. In particular for the tourism sector, the amounts granted through the repayable advance are calculated for the hotels 290 million, while another 60 million for the rooms. Government support, however, was not limited to what I have already said. Just last week, the Prime Minister announced another very important measure to support the affected tourist businesses. The new program is aimed at the entire range of tourism businesses, hotels, accommodations, rooms for rent, camping, as well as to agencies and tour buses. Support is mainly for small and medium-sized enterprises. Aid from the programme amounts to 5% for accommodation and 2.5% for other enterprises with a maximum amount of aid per VAT at EUR 400,000. The amount of the aid is duty-free, undisclosed and inconsistent and concerns small and medium-sized enterprises and large tourism enterprises, and also includes franchise undertakings subject to the fulfilment of certain regulatory criteria of the NRP. A total of EUR 420 million will be allocated to these enterprises. I think it is clear from the above that the government is fully aware of the real situation in the economy in general and in tourism in particular and is doing everything possible to relaunch the economy. With regard to the collective agreement between the hotel officials, which you are asking for, first of all, I would like to stress how important it is for both businesses and workers to negotiate very representatively with the social partners and to decide on important labour issues, as is obviously the level of remuneration. In the light of the applicable legislation, collective agreements and similar decisions of arbitration shall be binding on workers and employers who are members of the trade unions of the industry or of the profession. In order to extend these contracts, the law provides that at least 50% of the employees in the industry must be employed in the undertakings concerned. The existing collective agreement of hotel officials was signed on 20-1-2021 between the Panhellenic Federation of Food Workers - Tourism and the Panhellenic Hotel Federation and has a duration of validity from 1-9-2020 until 31-12-2022. On 11-5-2021, after a meeting of the Labour Council - I think you have also referred to it - the suggestion made to the Minister of Labour to declare the hotel staff's contract compulsory. The fact that the Minister has not yet been signed relates to the required check to be carried out by the relevant directorates of the Ministry in order to establish that the employers concerned employ 50% of the employees in the industry. As soon as these conditions are found to be met by the law, the Ministry will immediately proceed to the extension of the contract. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] I would remind you that in a similar context about a month ago - on May 8, to be precise - the Ministry of Labour has published a press release to inform the House that it is moving towards the extension of two other collective agreements, following a positive recommendation from the Labour Council and that they were related to electricians employed in...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u44	Mr. Undersecretary, you have your dentistry. We've already reached five minutes. Warm request to complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u45	You're right, Mr. President. I just want to add that if there was already the provision of the law that now comes on the computer record of the businesses involved in these trade unions, that would now be done automatically. So we see VDUs, we see how many people employ through "ERGANIS", it's over. Now we are going to be a little late, but, as I said before, it had already taken its turn. Mr President, I am sorry for the delay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u46	Come on, Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u47	Undersecretary, the collective agreement which, as you have said, has been signed too many months ago, could have already been checked and made progress. Unfortunately, there is the 2018 circular, which imposed certain procedures that I would say are even beyond the law, which are not described in this way in the relevant law and lead to bureaucracy, which is followed faithfully. What is needed at a time when pandemic all demands that decisions be made faster and that support policies be implemented immediately, because it will not be useful after a long time. It is not the case when we mention workers, because in other cases we see confusion, we see immediate action, we see everything. I would therefore ask that the declaration of the contract which the introduction into the OSCE is subject to checks be carried out, because this check has already been carried out in practice. They are known trade unions and known employers' organizations. I now come to the second point I will ask you to make. And if for the one that has been submitted for months, we have this delay, think about what I'm going to tell you now. After a year of controversy, the Association of Guides to Tourists of Crete with the tourism offices came to an agreement after collective negotiations and signed on May 25 the collective agreement that I will table in the Minutes to come to your hands. This collective agreement, at the request of the workers' side, is requested to be declared compulsory, extended, in order to resolve a number of outstanding issues. I must tell you that while the tourist season has begun, there is confusion about the existing ones. There was a collective agreement, it stopped. Now we have a new one. Recruitment is not carried out and this is the most important one. The re-intakes shall not be re-invoked and on the basis of the law, if there is no object, may be suspended for May and June. This is not possible in our case unless the question of the validity of the collective agreement is cleared up. There are provisions within the Convention that are important, and that is why I ask you to have a collapsing of the procedures, with what you will look at, that is, at political level, the process of red tape, so that we can have a result in a timely manner. We cannot have a collective agreement which will be approved after the end of the tourist season. To God. We'll have to do something in coexistence. If the electronic register to which you refer helps in this direction, of course, but in this case it will not help, because in order to establish the electronic register as a whole, it also wants this time. I would therefore say, in any way directly to see how the deadlines are compacted, to sign the contract with the tourist bus drivers' offices, to extend its validity, to make it compulsory. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u48	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor. A warm request to keep time, because we have several time-consuming questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u49	You're right, Mr. President. I'll check to be brief too so I can cover the extra time I took before. Mr. Kegeroglu, I'd like to start with the last thing you said, not in your question, about drivers. Indeed - I have said before - there are specific procedures which need to be completed. I hope that in the future this will also be done in order to extend and cover the whole of the tourist bus drivers with certain specific procedures, which we will follow as soon as possible. I fully understand how important it is to safeguard the interests of workers resulting from collective agreements. The Ministry of Labour has repeatedly demonstrated that it is standing on the side of workers and healthy entrepreneurship without reductions in compliance with the rules of labour law. And I now come to your second question in relation to the additional measures that the Ministry intends to take in order to protect even more the workers in the hotel sector. The answer to your question is simple and we have already given it through the forthcoming working draft. It needs a strong control mechanism. The truth is that there will always be some employers who will not fulfil their obligations. The role of the State and an active and effective control mechanism is to be able to identify the offenders directly and impose the corresponding penalties. You know that the Ministry has decided to upgrade the role of the APRC by turning it into an independent authority. The role of this principle will include monitoring the implementation of labour law, research into the insurance coverage and illegal employment of workers, as well as reconciliation and resolution of labour disputes. The new independent authority will carry out 24-hour checks with free access to books, registers, documents and records. It will not be subject to controls or supervision by governmental bodies, state bodies or other administrative authorities, while the selection of its commander will be by open competition where the president of the AACC will chair. Mr Kegeroglu, in closing I would like to say that the tourist season that begins is very critical of the relaunch of the national economy as a whole after the health crisis. We all know very well how important these businesses and their employees are, and already the signing of the collective labour agreement, we think it will help significantly to normalise the situation in the labour market in the post-COVID era, which is very uncertain anyway. However, the data available to us on GDP developments in the first quarter and also on the course of unemployment during the health crisis are encouraging, which makes us optimistic that soon pandemic and its consequences will be behind us. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u50	We continue with the third under the number 817/31-5-2021 topical question by the Member of Parliament of Boeotia of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Mulkiotis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Expression of age limits for men and women for a pension with a minor child (25 years/2010). Mr. Mulkiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u51	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, it is a well-known subject, which has been afflicted by too many citizens of interest, workers. There was a decision of the Court of Auditors, which adopted the decision of the second section of the Court of Auditors and which had justified an employee, a civil servant, who had relied on twenty-fifth years of insurance in 2010, including military service, with a minor child and asked that, like women, be retired to fifty. The Court of Auditors' plenary very clearly - a court battle, which since 2016 had begun and ended in 2020 - with its 317 decision, therefore, rejected the appeal that the Greek State had brought against the decision of the second department, which vindicates the male employee. The right to a pension with a minor child granted to men by supplementing the twenty-five years for 2011-12 as part of the equal treatment of men and women, was not granted for 2010. And, of course, it is well known that it was then shaped by balancing and gradually increasing the age limits by 2022, because it is then formed at sixty-seven years. This, then, right to retire with the decision concerns men who completed the twenty-five years of insurance in the year 2010 and who had completed the age of fifty. An issue remains pending: the applicant has been entitled. However, this issue has been decided irreversibly now. He knows the Greek State that there are many officials whose demands are included in this particular category and in this particular single decision, which is also the same decision as Union law. There has so far been no response from the Greek government. You ask yourself, Minister: are you prepared to make the necessary legislation to implement the outcome of the Court of Auditors' decision so that each of the parties concerned will not proceed in any judicial procedure? And if you intend, do you have any plans in particular? Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u52	Good. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u53	Thank you very much. Mr Mulkiotis, the question of equality between men and women is particularly high in government priorities. This has also recently led to the creation of a State Secretary for Demographic Policy and Family, with responsibility and gender equality issues. Gender equality is a manifestation of the principle of equality, which has nowadays been a challenge for society as a whole. We must all, obviously, implement gender equality in practice and ensure that it is respected in every legal way. On the question of the responsibility of the Ministry of Labour, the Government has proved in practice how important issues of gender equality are. The most recent proof is found in the provisions of the bill, which was filed in the House. This draft is ratified by the Convention 190 of the International Labour Organisation to eliminate violence and harassment at work, and rules are introduced against violence and harassment at the workplace, and specific references are made to gender-related behaviours. The most important thing is that the provisions of the bill also define the employer's responsibility for preventing and dealing with behaviours of violence and harassment, but also his obligation to inform and raise awareness of workers in similar matters. This, of course, is more general. I now come to the insurance, which falls within my competence. First of all, we must make it clear that early retirement was designed as a measure of social nature, but it has had a significant impact on various aspects of insurance. For example, most early retirements concerned women at their most productive age, while at the same time they were not linked in any way to the return on the insurance system. The contributions of the early retirement workers only provided the pension. At the same time, early retirement led to greater differences in the ages of retire ment for women and men, so that real gender equality is not promoted. Significant steps have been taken in legislation to close this gap, on the one hand, and to ensure the sustainability of our insurance system. All of this in a context in which gender equality can be promoted, but at the same time our insurance system must be governed by recompense and justice. At this point I should point out what happened by the end of 2010, as the earlier situation was unfair to men. Under the provisions of the Code of Civil and Military Pensions up to 31-12-2010, women were given the possibility to retire with the completion of twenty-five years of actual retirement and of the fifty-year old. In the case of men, however, there was no corresponding care, since the possibility of retirement under the same conditions was given only if they were widowed or divorced and had custody of children by a court decision. The relevant provisions were judged by a judgment of the Court of Justice of the European Union to be contrary to the principle of legality to the payment of the remuneration, thus requiring an adaptation of national law to that judgment. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] Mr President, one minute and I'll take it from my denology. Pursuant to that Decision, and in the context of the pension equation of men and women, insured under the same personal and family circumstances, the provisions of Law 3865/2010 allow men and women's fathers to retire at the same age as women's children's mothers. The vote on Law 3865 established a transitional age limits depending on the founding year for those with a minor child. These limits are now common to men and women and these limits were amended by Law 4063/2012 and Law 4336/2015 for those who established a pension entitlement from 1-1 2013 onwards. And then the more favourable pension treatment of men and women with a minor child has been stopped in relation to the rest of the workers. In the case of workers with a minor child, the retirement age limit is also set at sixty-seven years and is equal to the general age limit. I should like to point out, of course, that from the above increase in retirement age, men and women who have a single child and who are unable to pursue all the bio-poverty professions by 67% or more are excluded. I have taken a lot of time, Mr President, so in my dentistry I will be placing myself on the issue of age limits and how they are shaped. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u54	Here, Mr Mulkiotis, you have the floor for your denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u55	Mr Secretary-General, on a number of issues we will not disagree, some issues relating to equality will also be discussed at future meetings in the light of the new draft law tabled by the Government. However, the issue we raise with this particular question is very specific and, of course, it has been satisfied by the supreme court of the country: and with insurance reform the last bill - the Brutsi bill which has been heard - has implemented and adopted the decision of the Council of State, which considered the specific provisions of the previous insurance law to be unconstitutional - the Katrugalo Law - and, of course, it has implemented any interventions that were in existence and were found to be unconstitutional. And that's a fact. But here, when another major issue has been raised, this question of retirement has not so far been raised by the state, the Greek State responds to what was decided by the Court of Auditors' plenary. It is unclear and so far no specific response has been given. And here it is, Mr Secretary-General, that you, as a competent person - and not just in political but scientific and academic capacity - must answer all those who are insured, to these officials, to know what is going to happen. Do they have to be involved in a trial, too, in order to satisfy what the Court of Auditors has irrevocably judged? Do they have to force them to go to court? Where are they? Because in 2022 we actually reach the equation to sixty-seven years and we're done. But should this loose end not be cleared up? Is it going to stay like this? And why would he stay like this? And is it consistent with a rule of law, the principles of equality, the principles of confidence in insurance legislation, where discrimination on grounds of sex is prohibited and is known? Union law correctly and provides for specific issues that the Greek state does not apply. Shouldn't there be a specific restoration to this injustice? Because it's unfair! Under the existing legal regime, which has been applied by a court ruling for applicants, it must also be applied in the case of other cases which are the same and do not make them - in such specific circumstances as we are experiencing - the civil servants who have the prerequisites to bring legal action. This regulation - and I call it'regulatory' because it is an irrevocable decision of the Court of Auditors - must be extended to others too, rather and mandated to the General Accounting Office of the State to apply it and not to apply the anti-constitutional provision in the Code of Civil and Military Pensions, which was judged in any case - is that? - unconstitutional. I think - and I conclude, Mr President - that this is not the attitude of the Greek state in accordance with the principle of equality and with which it has prevailed and rather also requires Union law. And you specifically have a duty to take a position and decide - a political decision is, now, political after the judiciary's legal and judicial decision - the executive must decide whether to apply or not to apply this decision and whether to force the officials to appeal to the courts. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u56	Well, thank you, Mr. Mulkiotis. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President, again. Mr Mulkiotis, the question of equal treatment for men and women in matters of retirement for minor workers does indeed, as you have said, have, as you have said, the Court of Auditors, which has in fact decided that the father of a minor is entitled to a pension and that he is entitled to a pension until the end of 2010 under the same conditions as were applicable to a woman with a minor child, that is to say, in the fiftyth year of age. However, these decisions concern only the parties and do not bind the EFTA Surveillance Authority to their general application. After all, as I said before, the direction is to abolish early retirement provisions and not to extend them to men. That is why we have gone for reasons of legal certainty in the gradual alignment of the age limits of minor workers with those of the general population. In the case of a decision taken by the Court of Auditors, the regulatory framework for provisions introducing different treatment between men and women is not extended to private-sector insured persons, for which different constitutional provisions apply. In any event, these favourable provisions could not be applied to officials who submit their request for retirement after the abolition of the relevant provisions. In conclusion, I would like to reiterate that all interventions in insurance, whether concern age limits or pensions, should always be adopted in the light of the viability of the insurance system. Besides, the State under its constitutional obligations guarantees the payment of pensions for which, however, a viable and necessary treaty is the existence of a sustainable insurance system. It is therefore necessary to operate our insurance system in a context that respects the constitutional requirements and the existing financial constraints. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u58	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We move to the third with number 388/101/12-10-20 questions and requests for documents in the circle of petitions and questions by the Member of the Evia Parliament - Evangelos Apostolos, Evangelos, to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: 'Until two years the delay in the awarding of pensions by the OGA'. Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, despite the New Democracy's pre-election commitments to deal with a large part of the outstanding applications for retirement and decongestion of the competent ECA services, the situation is becoming ever worse with the number of outstanding applications growing constantly. The same upward trend is undeniably followed by the applications made by the insured farmers in the former GAA, so that their outstanding applications will, at the time I asked you this question, reach about 40 000. There are little cases where the expectation is even longer than two years, without the interested parties knowing exactly how much they will have to wait even without many times receiving the temporary pension, thus staying for a very long time without means of biopoverty. The long delays mainly relate to specific cases of farmers having successive insurance, time of insurance with a bachelor’s or contributor’s contributions, etc. Mr. State Secretary, in accordance with the provisions of Law No.4387/2016, the OGA together with the public is the only funds that have been integrated into the ECA and have been allowed to choose whether to join the ECA or to remain in these two entities that continued to operate in another form and other responsibilities. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] The former OGA staff chose 60% to remain in the former OGA, now OPEKA, and only 40% of this joined the EFCA. The logical result of this was to increase the outstandings that existed at the time of the former OGA's accession to the ECA. And you didn't make a single move to deal with this situation. I really expect specific things from your answer. The vagueness is now enough on an issue that concerns the survival of those people who are really 'watching Thermopylae' in the countryside. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u60	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u61	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Apostle, I have often referred to the serious problem of the outstanding pensions from the Step of the Parliament under parliamentary control. Since the first moment in the Ministry of Labour we have thrown all our weight into solving this problem. The problem is not a new one, which you know very well. The integration of all the insurance funds under a common and single administrative structure was a necessary reform, but it was not accompanied by the necessary consolidation of rules and software applications, which in turn led to the current situation. For these very reasons, the Ministry of Labour and the administration of EFKA have taken a number of actions to stop the suffering of citizens. In more detail, three types of measures have been taken. The first is the legislation on the payment of the amount of the national pension to all applicants for pensions pending the adoption of the pension decision. I would point out that the national pension is very close to what takes a significant proportion of the pensioners of the OGA. This is, of course, a purely relieving measure which only aims to limit the effects of the pensioners' candidates on account of administrative weaknesses. In fact, in the same logic last week, I signed a decision which made it compulsory to grant a temporary pension for insured persons until the final decision was adopted. The second package relates to the support provided by the Ministry to the administration of EVA to strengthen the organisation as quickly as possible at the level of human resources and logistics. In particular, a project manager has already been set up with sole responsibility for coordinating all the actions required. In addition, a special group of retired former ECA officials is activated with experience in the field of pension awards, while staff employed at all stages of the maturation of pension records and working outside the hours of these, are paid with cash bonuses. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time bell of the Secretary-General hits the warning bell.]] Assistance from other public bodies, as well as chambers and scientific associations has been provided. Also important are the contribution of certified professionals to the immediate decongestion of outstanding pensions. In addition, the Office's services are constantly equipped with new computers. The third package is considered to be the most important and most effective in the long term. I am referring to the digitisation of the insurance life of the candidate pensioners, as well as to the codification of the pension rules of all previous funds incorporated into the ECA. In order to speed up this process, it has been decided to make use of resources from the Development Fund. In relation to the pensions of the former OGA, to which your question refers, precisely because we knew there was a large number of outstanding pension applications in the OGA, the OGA was chosen as the first body to adopt automatic decisions on old age pension applications. Already, from 23-7-2020, the information system “ATLAS” has started its production function and automatically issues old-age pensions for those insured with exclusive insurance time in the former GAAP, as well as pensions relating to claims for retired death. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] According to the administrative planning of the EBRD by the end of the year, they are expected to be gradually integrated into the digital pension award procedure and all other categories, starting from disability pensions. In addition, and until the completion of the full production operation of the “ATLAS” system, the EVA has proceeded with a number of other actions to deal with as quickly as possible the stock of the pension applications of the former OGA. In more detail, the administration of the EBRD proceeded with the adoption of decisions to transfer responsibilities from former GAAP services to branches of employees. The implementation of these decisions decentralises the services of the former GAAP and enlarges the service network of farmers throughout Greece in ninety-five points compared with nine in the past. In particular, the power to adopt pension decisions now belongs to forty-four branches, and were previously carried out by seven central agencies. By the way, because somewhere you refer to your question that there is no employee in the Regional Department of Central Macedonia, let me inform you that according to the information provided by the ECA, this is simply not the case. On the other hand, according to the management of the institution, these officials, nine in the number, were transferred to the Regional Branch of Thessaloniki, mainly concerned with the processing of pension records of the former OGA. So, Mr Apostle, let us all be careful in our wording. The situation is clearly difficult and difficult, but the steps taken every day are great and above all effective. I'll give some numbers to my dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u62	Here, Mr Apostle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u63	Mr. Undersecretary, I will be sorry, but you have answered me as a reader of a letter. It seems that for your Government it is considered necessary to deal with these cases, particularly - I insist - in rural areas. You've given me the impression that you can't identify the cases I mentioned. You know there's still in branches stacked in unfinished cartons and nobody's dealing with them. There are structures in the former IKA that have not yet been removed from the boxes and have not handled cases of farmers who have been sent to them. This is the situation in the pensions of farmers. So you must take immediate steps to address these basic causes that have caused these problems. And, of course, it is, firstly, the zero reinforcement of the already subordinated structures of the former OGA, resulting in a spectacular increase not only of the outstanding pension applications, but also of all the requests concerning farmers, such as requests for insurance, funeral expenses, etc., and secondly, the incompatibility of the information systems between the institutions involved in the NCA. In the year of 2018, the process of creating an integrated IT system was under way with guaranteed funding from the ESRB of EUR 6 million. You interrupt this process and choose a number of fragmentary applications that do not directly address the problem of software communication. A very serious issue, too, regarding the delays in the former GAAP cases, also concerns the fact of the liquidation of the farmers' insurance time. This is about seventy-five thousand cases, mainly foreign workers, in the agricultural sector of our country. The situation is now serious, since under the present circumstances it is unable to satisfy a need of a purely social nature, the need for their immediate retirement. Most of the measures you have chosen to deal with the situation have proved incomplete, such as the employment of pensioners and others, such as the partnership of individuals, certified lawyers and accountants. In fact, you have already advertised this, ignoring that at least six months will be required until these people are drawn up, apart from the unconstitutional issues raised over the thirty-day period and the rapidity that the insured will be asked to pay. Minister, it should not escape your attention that it has already elapsed in the first half of 2021, and we are constantly discussing the options that will help to get pensions out immediately. We are talking about them, but it seems unfortunately, Mr Secretary-General, that they will be too late to be implemented, and I repeat again when we have an area, the rural area, which must survive in the countryside and its roots.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u65	Mr Apostle, you will allow me to say that you have divining skills, because you have told me that it proved to be incomplete, a measure that has not yet started to work, that of certified professionals. Anyway, let me put it aside! As I said in my prototype, we in the Ministry of Labour are well aware of the criticality of the situation and that is why every effort is made every day. It seems that this effort is slowing down. In the first quarter of 2021, which had all health restrictions, there was more than twice the number of pensions in relation to the first quarter of 2020 and almost twice the corresponding 2019 year. In particular, the first quarter of 2021 was issued nineteen thousand ninety-four main pension decisions, while the first quarter of 2020 eight hundred sixty-four and in March 2019 the corresponding number was ten thousand eight hundred sixty-seven. Regarding the number of outstanding pensions, in February 2021, there were forty - one thousand eight hundred ones, while in March their number fell by 5.4%, reaching thirty - four thousand eighty-eighty pensions. Furthermore, so far - and I repeat that the information available is until March 2021 - twenty-five thousand thirty-seven pensions have been issued, the sixteen of which involved pensions from the former OGA. To date, it is estimated that we have exceeded thirty thousand digital pensions. To answer your other questions, you ask me why the upgrade of the software of the FBI is so delaying. As I have already mentioned, EKA has inherited all chronic diseases, administrative weaknesses and dazzling insurance legislation of past clients - funds. You have also referred to your question about these. The rules must be consolidated primarily by law, but also by software. In this context, the programming agreement signed between the Ministry of Labour and the General Secretariat of Legal and Parliamentary Affairs in order to proceed with the administrative codification of all legislative information in the field of social security is also part of the programme. This whole amount of insurance makes it even more difficult to issue pensions. In this direction, just last week, I signed the relevant decision, which is a clear and permanent solution to the question of the time of insurance disputed between former GAAP and former GAAP. This provision legalises the insurance in the GAAP and counts if any insurance contributions already paid to the AIFM are already paid. This was a typical case of delay in the award of pensions and, indeed, it was one of those that was too late and a large number of pensioners. The task of bringing together the former funds is not easy. But already, the digital transformation effort is going on and it is great and the first results are visible. Just last week, sixty eight ECA procedures were announced that were deemed obsolete and are provided exclusively electronically and are abolished by JEP systems. In fact, eleven of those relating to the funeral expenses procedure have already been replaced by a single procedure. The Joint Working Party between the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Digital Governance will assess a total of two hundred and seventy-two procedures, aiming to streamline the administrative procedures that affect both citizens and employees. Moreover, in relation to the issue of subsistence of ECA structures, according to the planning of regular budget recruitment, the recruitment of an eighty-six permanent staff from the Agency's Board of Directors has already been approved. In addition, by legislative regulation, the EPC is allowed to waive legal proceedings against decisions ordering the stay or re-entry of workers and through this procedure a hundred and six officials serving on account of judicial decisions, have remained in their positions and have all been transferred to pension funds. Mr Apostle, I will not say in any way that the operation of the entity is impeccable. In many cases, there are problems and failures which affect both citizens and employees. However, I insist that every day's effort to improve the services provided is lasting and uneasy. We intend to remain committed to this objective so that the country's insurer becomes a modern public service that consistently meets the increasing requirements of his role. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u66	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Before we move on to the two following questions to the Ministry of Culture and Sport, on which the Minister, Mrs Styliani Mendoni, is here to answer, let me announce questions which will not be discussed in consultation: It is the ninth under number 824/31-5-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The positions of beekeeping associations, cooperatives, the National Interbranch Organisation of Honey and the Greek Scientific Society for Beekeeping in the decision on the functioning of the "National Electronic Apiculture Register""". The first 2551/10-12-2020 question of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA MP Laconia - the Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: 'Association of a labelling system for food products with marks such as Nutri - Score'. And the second question under number 5972/14-2021 of the circle of petitions and questions by SYRIZA MP Laconia - Progressive Alliance Mr. Stavros Arachovitis to the Minister of Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Twenty-five irrigation projects of Measure 4.3.1 and a loss of almost 350 million euros from the Agricultural Development Programme (PAA) 2014-2020’. We now move on to the debate of the tenth under number 813/28-5-2021 on a topical question from the Second Cycle of SYRIZA - the Progressive Alliance of Mr. Konstantinos Zouri to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: 'Hurricane, positive opinion of the Central Archaeological Council at the request of the home 'Dior' for his demonstrations on 14, 15 and 17 June 2021. Mr. Zurari, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u67	My respects, Mr President, my respects, Minister. You have not issued an official statement and it is said that a unanimous decision has been taken by our thirty wise archaeologists in the agreement with the Dior house. It has never been mentioned, however, what the relevant conditions were. I expect to hear the terms. I would remind you, however, that at least in the idiosyncrasy of our own civilization, the province of Zambelle or the state against Plato, the sacred temples, not the secular - and I think three were mentioned here, the sacred temple of Zeus, the sacred temple of Poseidon and the sacred temple of the Virgin, which, in the next phase, became the sacred temple of Megalochara as Panagia of Atheniotissa - our sacred temples are given in only two instances over the last three thousand years: when they have to house homeless and refugees because of our disasters or when the parish and the assembly or the assembly of the people have been decided for specific reasons, for the last three thousand years. All other use for our sacred temples is simply not acceptable. I'll see if there's that prediction, the welfare, you. Let's talk about the cosmic buildings. I would remind you, because it is of great importance, that there is this abomination of 'Dior'. I would remind you, Minister, that in 1951, when the sacred temple was given by the American-documented state - there is the misery you are addressing me and my fellow citizens - then there were already four thousand killed by your barracks, there were hundreds of thousands of sick, imprisoned in the wilderness hundreds of persecuted and half a million persecuted. My father, Mrs. Ministerina, was still a prisoner in 1951 when he became a pornist from the Greek state in the Temple of Virgin. That's it. Therefore, the home "Dior" is deserved of this abomination of 1951. And now we're going to be Turkish, like Agia Irene, who gave to a bunch of lobsters and a bunch of lobsters in 2005, in front of a hammerhead or backward lobsters, so that they could parade, say in underwear to the Temple of Agia Irene? Is that what we're gonna do? Are we Turkish-Turkishers? I mean, mercy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u68	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. MEP, the house "Dior" proposed to the Ministry of Tourism, on the occasion of the two-year anniversary of the Greek Revolution, a set of festive events that presents Greece around the world, while at the same time highlighting the Greek creators, because it only uses Greek creators, craftsmen and Greek workshops. The Ministry of Tourism forwarded to the Ministry of Culture the requests of the home "Dior" through its co-operating companies in Greece, to grant a licence for photographing or filming and presenting the collection in archaeological sites and monuments in June 2021. The final request, as formulated after the collaboration of officials of the Ministry of Tourism with the competent authorities of this house, and after the performance of self-confidence in the areas requested by the relevant officials of the Ministry of Tourism, was introduced by a positive opinion to the OAS by the three co-authorities of the Ministry of Culture, following positive suggestions from the relevant Antiquities of the city of Athens, Eastern Attica and Corinthia. A similar procedure was followed for the introduction of the request to the Central Council of Modern Monuments through the relevant Director of the Ministry and following a positive recommendation from the Department of Modern Monuments and Technical Works of Attica. The request to the Central Archaeological Council, which included shots for the period 16-22 June in total for all places including preparation, was to take photographs in the Acropolis. The request included filming as a recording of the project in the form of a report. As regards the Attica Herod of the Attica, the request was for downloads, fixed fashion photos and generally in points inside and outside the monument. Here, too, included filming for the recording of the project. In addition, photography and filming was requested in the Ancient Agora, the Temple of Poseidon in Sounion and the Temple of Zeus in Nemea in the context of the advertising campaign of the collection. As regards Kallimarro, the Council was requested to present the collection, photography, filming, aerial filming, direct transmission of the event at a global level and to post it on the official website of the ‘Dior’ home. At the meetings of the Central Archaeological Council on May 25 and the Central Council of Modern Monuments on May 27, all the requests and views of the services of the Ministry of Culture were presented and general issues concerning the content and spirit of the project were discussed, as well as the individual technical and operational details. The thirty members of the boards, as you said, took all the data into account, unanimously consulted in favour of the approval of the requests. The Central Archaeological Council unanimously gave its opinion on photography in the Acropolis and not in the Parthenon, not in the Church of Panagia Atheniotissa, when it existed. I mean in that place he took over. With regard to filming, the Council considered that it should be limited only in the preparation of the project within the old museum and in the case of shots outside the Propylanes of the Acropolis. In addition, the council gave a positive opinion on the shots at Herodion, the Ancient Market, outside the Temple. It will not take place within the Temple of Hephaestus and Athena Erganis, the Temple of Poseidon, except the temple and Nemea and the Temple of Divine again outside the temple. In other words, the Council gave its opinion on taking decisions not within the temples. The opinion of the Central Council of Younger Ministers on the use of Callimaros was unanimously positive. The Councils have set a number of terms and conditions set out in the respective decisions. The decisions of the two relevant directorates-general were adopted today and relate to the decision-making process, the orderly functioning of the sites, the protection of monuments, the payment of fees for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources and the use of portrayals of the archaeological sites and monuments of responsibility of the Ministry in accordance with the provisions of Law 3028/2002. To conclude, I would like to point out that, in the case of the 'Dior', the legal procedure laid down by law was followed, followed by all the relevant requests. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u70	Mr. Zurari, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u71	My respectful Minister, I have great respect for archaeologists and archaeology, because you saved Greece post-war as archaeology and archaeologists from abuse, from the contractors, from the arbitrary construction, even though you had no money to give for the areas and for the archaeology to the citizens who were delaying their interests. But today you have turned these thirty wise archaeologists of the CAS into thirty tyranns of Athens. You mentioned in your protology that the exact provisions concerning photography were complied with. I don't doubt it. But what were the provisions proposed by the 'Dior' and the alternatives that may be proposed by you, where the agreement was unanimously reached? We have not yet learned that from you today. In this photography now, with the technology, if there are the known, the usual, the photographics, the projection of the déhanchées pianoes, if there is a projection on the guinea fountains and the atrocities and the eagles, because they display underwear, outfits and other things, I'm not saying anything of the Belgian. With all these emblems that will be roaming there, we are essentially wondering if that is the case, because it has not been understood from your speech. Of course, there is the portrayal of the sacred temples, but they are not connected with a photo contact with the paradigms déhanchée these girls, the shepherds, who do not even belong to the song of the Déhanchée. Otherwise, I express my appreciation to the archaeologists, but the government's policy does not turn them into 'three tyranns'. Now, you didn't tell us, the thirty-three silvers, the barracks that Dior's gonna give you, how much is it finally, bro?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u72	Madam Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. I must say that I do not understand the concern, Mr Zurari, yours or yours about these events in the 'Dior' house. I have told you and I repeat that the statutory procedures, which define all these things you mention and which are also concerned with photography and filming, have been fully respected. This is why archaeological law discusses photography and filming in archaeological sites, monuments and all these processes were observed. Also, those you call "thirty tyranns" are thirty high-principal scientists who are not so flattering to call them "tyranns". As for what you called "thirty silvers" the Greek State and the Ministry of Culture has set at least since 2011 the fees corresponding to the use of monuments, the concession of monuments, filming and photography. It is therefore based on the relevant legislation that the entire institutional framework is defined as well as the fees paid by any user, whoever is concerned, to the Agency for the Management and Development of Cultural Resources. So I do not understand why such an approach by Greece and a culture - I will repeat it - is caught up in ideology, isolation and misery. We believe in a modern, creative, extrovert Greece that without complexes and discounts claims the place it belongs to. Nor can I imagine the ministerial decisions on the basis of the unanimous opinions of the two central archaeological councils, signed by the competent directors - here I just want to point out that they are the same directors who have chosen the SYRIZA government's period - how it is possible to question them as legal officers. Apparently they're legal. It's not possible! I said it and say it at every opportunity, the services of the Ministry of Culture have a duty to protect monuments, the cultural reserve. So they are not in breach of this duty, Mr Papoutsis. They are consistent and on the basis of the institutional framework that the monuments have managed, they render monuments to society, they grant monuments in accordance with the provisions of the archaeological law and they collect the legal fees that have been imposed for twenty years by the Greek state with amendment - as I said - in 2011. But in order to see all the individual terms, I submit to the Minutes and the two decisions which are the result of the unanimous opinions of the two central councils of the Ministry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Minister. We continue with the fourteenth under the number 832/31-5-2021 topical question of the second question by MP I Thessaloniki of the Movement of Change Mr. Charalambos Kastanides to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on the subject: "A country" to maintain the antiquities of the Venizelos Station". Here, Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u75	Thank you, Mr President. In carrying out the work on the metro of Thessaloniki at the “Venizelos” station, antiquities of rare beauty and value were discovered, which should according to the government decision be detached from their natural space in order to carry out, as the government claims, more quickly the work. Let me note that this unique complex is the Byzantine middle street, or during modern terminology, wide street that connected gates of Byzantine Thessaloniki right and left of the street there are buildings, houses and workshops. The total area of archaeological findings at Venizelos station is so far a thousand square metres. The Council of State recently and, according to journalistic information, with the difference of one vote, i.e. by a majority of 13-12, decided to approve the study of "ATTITRO" for the secondment from their natural cultural area of antiquities, monuments, their temporary transfer to a warehouse and after their re-establishment and their placement if possible in the same area. We respect the decision of the Council of State, although the majority, Minister, could also be reversed for reasons of luck. But next to the government's decision and the decision of the supreme court in the country, we have a call for the most competent international and domestic bodies, the work at the Venizelos station, to be carried out by maintaining antiquities in their area. It's a series of scientist prestige requests. I imagine that the letter of top scientists from the world's best universities has come to your hands: from Rodrick Beaton to John Duffy and Alexander Nehama to Mark Mazawer, they all explain why the government's decision, like the Council of State, poses the danger of the integrity and authenticity of the monument. And if these two elements are at stake, which I will come back to later, then it will be very difficult for Greece, for our country and for any government to ask for their integration into UNESCO World Heritage Monuments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u76	Mr. Castanides, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u77	I shall conclude, Mr President. I hope we'll think better than the Turks. I want the Greek people and the National Representation to know, Mr President, that during the performance of the metro projects in Istanbul, at the 'Geni Kapi' stop, there was a unique beautiful port of Byzantium, in which thirty-six ships had been submerged. Judging the monument as unique, because it had to be kept in place, because there was a risk otherwise, the Turks decided to carry the station and show the antiquities there. I'll have a chance in my dentistry to say more. I hope that my appeal to the Minister of Culture will find more resonance than the Minister for Transport and Networks.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u78	Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u79	Thank you very much, Mr President. I note, Mr President, that today I am calling, at least on the basis of what you have said in the text, but also on the basis of what you said earlier, to answer how I intend as the Minister of Culture to deal with a judicial decision by the supreme court of the country concerning the secondment or not of antiquities at the Venizelos station, which has not yet been published and yet has not come to the Ministry of Culture. However, you seem to know not only about this decision, namely that it considers it in favour of temporary secondment and relocation of antiquities, not only the percentage of majority - minority, but even the reasoning of the judges, that they have decided to second the antiquities - and I take from your own text - 'in order to quickly complete the construction of the station'. In this context, therefore, I am invited to answer "what immediate actions I intend to take in order to keep the monuments at the station". In other words, you are asking me what I intend to do directly to ignore what the judicial decision of the Council of State, which, as you are saying, requires a temporary secondment. I would first like to point out that I am not aware of either its judicial decision or its rationale, nor of the source of information. But what I note and note is that the top democratic institution of parliamentary control is today on the basis of reports on the content of the judicial decision on some websites. I now come to the substance of the case to tell very briefly the history that we are all aware of. The “Venizelos” station is located at the intersection of modern Egnatia and Venizelos roads and occupies the entire width of the roadway of modern Enanatia. In the excavations inside the excavation, about six meters below the modern Egnatia, a main road was discovered, Decumanus Maximus of Byzantines. Beyond the marble-street and stone-strengthed road corridors are developed in different time periods from the 6th to the 9th century after Christ buildings, private and public, testimonies of the urban development of Thessaloniki. With a ministerial decision in 2014, after having been thoroughly examined by the Central Archaeological Council, the six solutions proposed by the Aristotle University, the Technical Chamber and the company "ATITITI METRO", in cooperation with the relevant departments of the Ministry of Culture, were proposed to combine the proposal of the University and the "ATITI METRO" which provided for the temporary secondment of antiquities and their relocation after construction of the station. Following an appeal from the then Mayor of Thessaloniki, the ministerial decision was challenged before the Council of State and in 2016 a decision of the S.E. which ratified it was adopted. She didn't cancel. He validated her. However, before the decision of S.A. was even published, the then government of SYRIZA had adopted a new ministerial decision in 2015 that "frozen" all the work and instructed the Municipality of Thessaloniki to submit an architectural study for the conservation of antiquities on the site of the station, and even regardless of the construction of the station or not, i.e. regardless of an issue that the Council of State had already ruled out technically. By 2019, that is, four years after the overthrow caused by SYRIZA, what was submitted was a proposal, an idea of the persistence of antiquities during the construction of the station, which not only did not include the components of what the law calls a study, the study according to law, since it did not even have statistical calculations, but was also prepared by an informal working group, which did not sign either the proposal or the projects that accompanied it and which, as a proposal and plans, remain unsigned to date. An unsigned study, Mr Papoutsis, means that no one bears responsibility for its creativity and its effectiveness. No one bears responsibility for the security of antiquities. No one is responsible for an accident at work during construction. No one bears responsibility for passenger safety later. However, I read with interest in your question that the method of conserving antiquities at the "Venizelos" station is both strong and secure and more economic and has also been tested. Because we don't know them, I guess you'll tell us in your dentistry. In the face of this deadlock, therefore, in 2019 the ‘ATTY MEASURES’ presented a documentation study containing a temporary secondment of 92% of antiquities and relocating each one of them to the exact same location where it was found. This method is tested and fully successful. After a long debate of the Central Archaeological Council and a positive opinion of that, the Ministerial Decision is still pending the adoption of a judicial decision, which you seem to know, and we expect to know. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u80	Mr Kastanides has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u81	Mrs Mendoni, let me tell you that my institutional duties and institutional responsibility are probably better known than you. The information on the limit majority 13-12 we do not know from anywhere else than the press releases. Secondly, the Government's decision and on the basis of the study of "ATTIC METRO" we know it because we have been present several times in presentations of the study on how to build the Venizelos station, which was made by the company "ATTITAN MERO". As we also know the history of Athens metro, we know the Venice authorities and we know the Nara declaration. And we have studies, in fact, of denouncing teachers. It is no coincidence that both the National Technical School of Thessaloniki and the Polytechnic School of Thessaloniki are opposed to the decision taken by the government. It is no coincidence that the Departments of History and Archaeology, almost all of the universities in the country, have an opposing view. It is no coincidence that domestic and international bodies, the most competent ones, have an opposing view. I would therefore like to inform you of a few things, because there is always a charm to speak from the text prepared by his colleagues, but that is also a trap at the same time. The construction of stations with antiquities in their area you have implemented it, not as a government, but as a Ministry of Culture, before, on the metro of Athens. At least three cases are known when the tunnel went under the depth of antiquities, both in Omonia and the University. But mostly, it's the Monastery. In particular, in situ construction has been applied and in technically more difficult conditions than it is at the Venizelos station. Secondly, the Venice Charter, Minister, which I am sure you are aware of, states that a monument can only be detached from its natural, cultural area if it is in danger of remaining in the area, namely, it is impossible to protect it in this area, in the natural, urban or rural environment. Shortly thereafter, in 1994, in Nara there was a declaration - which I am also sure you have knowledge - which, when assessing a monument and its authentic values, states that the location must also be taken into account. For as rightly pointed out, the integrity and authenticity of a monument, an archaeological site, is accompanied by intangible values such as the behavior of a certain age. It is what the Germans would say about Zeitgeist, the spirit of the time. So if you remove antiquities from the space, it will be very difficult to maintain integrity and authenticity according to Nara's declaration. And I add: International organisations point to the world and to us that the secondment of a monument may sometimes be possible when building materials are hard. But if construction materials are windows, to use the scientific terminology - they are vulnerable, as in this case - then there is a risk that you will not be able to restore absolutely anything and have a project disaster. And since you have many good ones, and worthy associates, you will be informed, Minister, that this is the first time that it is attempting to detached from its natural, cultural environment, an archaeological site of a thousand five hundred square meters. Until now a monument could be seconded. And if the restoration you're going to attempt tomorrow is poor and impossible, then, Mr. President, what happened to Elbe. Included in 2006 the Elbe delta as a monument to UNESCO and since it was soon after being built in the centre of the four-lane bridge, it was declassified. The same happened with Georgian monasteries. These are concrete examples. Madam Minister, if you do not have them, I will also send you Mr Kavvada's study, and I will also send you the study by Mr Alkiviadis Prepi, and I will send you the complaints or appeals from international organizations and scientists prestiges. And please, for the last time, rethink not on the basis of a judicial decision. The judicial decision will approve or not approve - approved according to information - a study. But the study is the ‘ATITAL MEASURES’. Take note of everyone else and don't go over what you're told.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u82	Good. Madam Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u83	Thank you, Mr President. I am not going to answer the same insulting way that you have used, but I shall give you two points. I do not forget that you know your institutional responsibilities, but I also know ours very well. And in any case, it is not institutionally correct to discuss a decision of the Supreme Court, which has not yet been adopted. We're moving on. Secondly, I belong to those who write their own texts despite the fact that I have very competent partners. I didn't offend you. You insulted me. So let's go see the metro of Athens, which I know very well because I had the honour of having served as Secretary-General of the Ministry of Culture. Of course, on the metro of Athens, antiquities were maintained, but antiquities were extracted to protect themselves. It's not a one-way road, Your Honour. Where it is possible to stay in the country of antiquities, it is obviously promoted, and where possible in conjunction with the provisions of the archaeological law, which we must take into account above all protection, but also the public interest. In the judgment, therefore, of the Central Archaeological Council, which appears, in your opinion, to be insufficient prestige and knowledge, the scientists who constitute it - and this is insulting - the temporary secondment of the antiquities of the Venizelos station for the period of work and their reposition immediately afterwards and precisely in the same position as they were found to be a necessary, appropriate and unique solution. Need to build the station. Appropriate to protect antiquities, which are prevented from being put at risk. For with any other solution per country of residence, the work under way can create such conditions that antiquities can be destroyed. And only, as is apparent from the fact that, apart from ideas of noble intentions, unsubstantiated constructions and yet unsubstantiated studies, no study has been submitted to the Ministry of Culture, no study. And a study that is complete under the conditions of the law about what a study means. No reports of ideas or just scaffolding. The allegations about the feasibility and security of the maintenance of antiquities by country have said some things again theoretically. I didn't hear anything specific. The metro, therefore, of Thessaloniki, is the only project within the European Union that has been funded by three Community Support Frameworks, you know that very well. Until now Greece has received a total of 637 million and this amount can reach a maximum of 852 by the end of 2023 when the eligibility period of the current NRP expires. If the project is not completed by March 2025 at the latest, the risk of repayment of all the money collected by the country by December 2023 shall be met. One is therefore aware of not the economic but the public interest. All that I have said and much more has been fully documented in the Council of State and discussed at the meeting on 6 November 2021 and we have been waiting for this decision since then. However, since you mentioned that here we have a unique case of antiquities, I must inform you, Mr. MEP, that corresponding antiquities and much more important values were found at the next station of Venizelos, at the "Agia Sophia" station.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u84	Which they can't get in, put...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u85	They can't get in, because on SYRIZA the station study was modified. That's another story we're dealing with and we'll see. So the materials are the same. Antiquities, perhaps more important of the Venizelos station against some experts, were extracted and will, apparently, be relocated with the care of the Ministry of Culture. These are material and at least risk are not substantiated. As for the major archaeological site, I would remind you - I'm sure you know - that during the construction of the metro in the Constitution and the parking station of the House - it was a combination of both works - it was extracted and transferred a very large space, which today is the archaeological park in the University and is used by the students of archaeology. I say this only in terms of size, so as not to misunderstand myself, because for the antiquities that will be extracted there is already a study approved by the Central Archaeological Council, for their secondment and for their reposition. From there on, for the rest about the integrity of the UNESCO monument and so on, I have many examples to tell you. You say something. I too have many examples - it is not time for us, I am glad to do so at some point - which says exactly the opposite. Monuments preached and included in the list of World Heritage Monuments were extracted, placed at a different low distance, a short distance in Egypt and remained characterized by UNESCO. So let us not jeopardise ourselves, Mr Papoutsis. If you have studies of constructional, perfectly practicable, provide them to anyone who has. But there are no such studies or at least no knowledge of the relevant Ministry of Infrastructure and the Ministry of Culture. The two of you mentioned above are well known and do not guarantee structurality. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u86	Good. The topical questions to the Ministry of Culture and Sport have been completed. We continue with three topical questions to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, on which Mr Amyras will reply. The first two and, in particular, the first one with number 808/27-5-2021, the first question of the first cycle of the Member of Parliament of the Republic of Neo Efstratiou (Stratou) Simopoulos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Management and Protection of the Urban Forest of Thessaloniki Sehik Sou" and the sixth with number 831/31-5-2021, the second question of the Greek MP of the Movement of Change Mr Charalamboum Kastanidis to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Application of immediate measures to protect the forest of Sehik Sou" referred to the same subject and will be discussed at the same time, without naturally affecting the rights of speakers in their speaking time, pursuant to the provision in paragraph 4, of Rule 131 of the Rules of Procedure of the House. So we will give the floor first to Mr Simopoulos, then to Mr Kastanidis, then to the Minister, and then we will have seconds. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, the Shah Soo forest is a well-known forest in Thessaloniki, our perimeter forest. Of course, according to the poet Vafopoulou, he has also been renamed "Centrin Hill", he was also called "House Trees". Along with the Thermaikos coastal front, they are the main lungs of Thessaloniki, not only of recreation, but of course, I would say, and refreshing lungs. There is a risk, however, that today we will have events, such as in 1997 with the great fire, which burned almost half of the area of thirty thousand hectares. We had recently the great fire in the Geranea Mountains, which in us Thessalonians woke very bad memories. And, of course, I have been informed that the Ministry of Civil Protection has set up an increased risk regime of eighteen areas to which it does not belong or belong until recently, as far as I know, and the Shahih Sue forest. At the same time, there is a great diffusion of responsibilities, there are many agencies that are involved in protection, mainly, or, if you like, and further development. The recent example of the bark insect is alive and, of course, this causes us a great deal of trouble. So I would like to know whether you are aiming and how to protect the forest directly ahead of the summer season, to be cleansed and dismantled, especially if you intend to gather the diffuse responsibilities under a metropolitan administration.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, Mr. Simopoulos. Mr Kastanides will now take the floor for his prototype and immediately thereafter the State Secretary. Mr. Castanides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u89	The Shah Your Forest is in danger, as is any other forest, when anti-nuclear protection works are not carried out in time. There are two kinds of problems, Mr. Undersecretary. One is that there is still all over the forest flammable matter, cut branches, pine needles, bearable materials. No cleansing has taken place, no preventive measures of fire protection have been taken and you think that a large part of the urban fabric, the urban fabric is adjacent to the forest, from the area of Sicily and Naples to Agios Paul, the Forty Churches and Evangelistria. We therefore have an extensive front for direct relevance of the peri-urban forest to the urban fabric. The second problem is that for a few years now - and Mr Simopoulos told you earlier - a bark-eater insect, which does great damage, has been drying up tors. The removal of cut logs must be done quickly. The harvesting work is now taking place at a very slow rate. If you look around the forest today, you will find that there are logs of trees while other trees are already being destroyed, because the insect acts at the same time as the shell. The harvesting work is slow, because there are only two logging cooperatives to which, if I am not mistaken, the region and the competent agricultural and forestry services are directed. There are other cooperatives, which are outside the prefecture and which can be invited to make logging quickly, as quickly as possible and to remove felled trees. There should also be an extensive reafforestation programme, not natural reafforestation, according to what the Aristotle University suggests, in order to get away from pineapple and go to a forest that will slowly become vegetation that is not so vulnerable to fire. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u90	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u91	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Simopole, Mr Kastanidis, I will also address Mr Triantafylides, because you are all Thessalonians and you have a genuine interest in the Sheikh Sou. The same genuine interest I am, because you may know - my good friend, Alexander Triantafylides knows - that I grew up in Thessaloniki. That's where I went to school, that's where I finished school, and in the Sheikh I did you day by day training as an athlete for PAOK. So I've got a big bond with Sheich Sue. I love this forest and I recognise its importance for biodiversity, but also as a recreational area and as a spirit of mental uplift for the whole city. You're right. Your Sheikh has a problem with the bark insect, mainly with it, but also with cleaning. I'll tell you what we've done and how quickly we'll move. Already, we've moved. Let me clarify something. You know that last year the Civil Protection and the Secretary-General responsible, Mr. Hardalias, put Shahik Soch under special protection. There was a special plan. And the glory of God all worked a clock for both the protection of the forest and its management. I think this is a common place. You recognize that, too, we all see it. It is no coincidence that Mr Hardalia and the Civil Protection and his colleagues make use of all new technologies. They put the algorithms down, put the satellites on, Mr Simopole, and took out the first eighteen high-risk, high-risk areas against the fire, and we've already entered and cleaned up. The Ministry of the Environment, to the extent that it can help, Mr President, to avoid this dreadful bureaucracy, because, yes, there is a great deal of bureaucracy over the years. We have something monolithic, something dinosaurs of bureaucracy that prevents the right direction in our actions. But we have overcome it with Mr Hardalia, the two ministries, and already with Tatoi and the Hippocrates, and for other regions we have quickly found both studies and funding and forest cooperatives to get in to cleanup and make cleanings for them. Let me come a lot more specifically to Shahih Sue now. Let's start with the insect bark. Indeed, this is a problem, the bark insect that insults and destroys pine. Indicatively, in 2020, thirty thousand cubic metres of pine were felled, and this year, twenty-five thousand cubic metres are planned to be removed. These are elements that the Forest Directorate gave us, the Decentralized Command. The Coordinator of the Decentralised Administration has taken the study - you will also see it in "DIAGY" - for the safe management of these residues. What do we do as the Ministry of the Environment? I will then come to you, Mr Simopoulos, and to the other point you said about who should have a management and you have made a proposal for a metropolitan body. I'll come to that, and I'll answer you. So to deal with the bark insect in Shahik Soo, we have already given decentralised EUR 75,000 to start and I believe it has begun. I mean, no, I certainly don't think it's started to remove the sick torsoes to go ahead with the resolution of the rest of the ecosystem. We have therefore approved this credit, not only for the treatment of this bark insect, but also for the execution of projects with an emphasis on anti-nuclear protection. In addition, however, there are other financial instruments. Indeed, Mr President, I have sent letters to all the mayors of the country, and to the three hundred thirty-two, two and three times from April to now, pointing them to the way, if they do not know him, to raise the money that they have - and I will tell you what they are - to proceed with preventive cleansing. So the Ministry of Interior has provided funding of EUR 17 million exclusively for fire protection actions. The Green Fund has approved 1,700,000 euros for fire protection and road construction projects and the Thessaloniki Forest has received credits for maintenance of fire roads and fire lanes. Can we take a look at the prevention measures? There has been work on fire protection, Mr. Simopoulos and Mr. Castanides, and if I may put in our conversation and Mr. Triantafylides, as the Thessalonikios and him. Therefore, the anti-nuclear roads of a total length of seven miles, four to eight meters wide, and the anti-nuclear bands of a total length of forty - six kilometers, ten to thirty meters wide, have been cleared. In fact, we have opened roads and zones to an extent of a thousand five hundred acres, Mr Simopole, that is about 5% of the total area of the forest. Furthermore, in order to facilitate the Fire Service, if - beating wood - we have the inevitable, so there we maintained eight tanks with a total capacity of two and a half thousand cubic metres, which are sufficient, given that for the purposes of the hydro-purpose of fire-fighting vehicles the specifications require sixty cubic metres tonnage tanks per thousand acres of wood. So we as the Ministry of the Environment have done what we have to do. I will tell you what the Civil Protection is going to do, although I think that Mr Hardalias himself will soon visit Thessaloniki and Shah Soo. We, therefore, as Ministry and money, gave the Decentralised and Forest Service, and we have indicated to them how to move faster and more effective both in anti-nuclear protection and in the treatment of the insect bark. I'll tell the rest of it in dentistry. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u92	Good, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u93	Thank you, Mr President. I am pleased with your reply that action has been taken, as you say, which allows us to hope that we will not have a problem in the summer. I hope it's all right. What I would like to point out again, however, is the need for the metropolitan administration and you know, Minister, that, to do so, you must bypass many reactions, which will come from bureaucratic public bodies, which do not want to make any discounts on their responsibilities, regardless of whether they often do not stand up to the circumstances. We want an anti-nuclear and tight organization so that every start of fire in this space can be handled for the first 10 minutes. It is something that I do not know if it is happening today, because any new fire will result - you know it well - in the terrain and in the occurrence of the nitrate rock, which in the event of storms will be a nightmare for Thessaloniki. I therefore propose that an independent management and protection body be set up. It can be done by setting up an independent service, which will either be directly subordinate to the Director of Central Macedonia or even to the Ministry, because I have no problem since an organisation is not working satisfactorily, this organization will even come to Athens. We have done so with management bodies, and I think we are moving in a good direction on this issue. This service should therefore be served by selected officials, transferred from the Forest Service, by the Institute for Forest Research, from the University of Thessaloniki Forestry School. It will be the purpose of drawing up the necessary upgrading studies and fire protection and plant protection preventive measures, but also of creating and complying with a regulation of operation, which is very important. There will also be an unpaid, a few-member consultative committee, involving the Mayors of Thessaloniki, Chortiatis, Pylaea and Neapolitan - Skeon. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Mr. Simopoulos. Mr Kastanidis, you have the floor for your dentistry now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u95	Mr. Undersecretary, you spoke about the algorithms of Mr. Hardalia, under which eighteen forests were incorporated into a special protection regime. To tell you my sin of algorithms in social and political life a little I despise them, because Mr. Chardalia's algorithms did not have time, within the weekend that passed, the two fires that lit at the ends of the perimeter forest. As you know, we already have two fires at the beginning of the summer. One fire, in fact, manifested in a well-known estate. Fortunately, the fire-fighting means, mostly, managed to control it quickly. Our question could not be more timely. After spending some money on preventive actions, as you say, I would urge you, Mr. Undersecretary, since you love Thessaloniki, to come up and see what the actions correspond to your funding. It is preferable to have a personal picture, because the image we have, like the inhabitants of the entire town complex, but also of the surrounding areas, is quite different. I would like to point out to you, Mr Danielides, that only on 4-6-2021, in the face of the alarm, mayor Neapolis Sykeon sent a document with many recipients, including the Prime Minister's first address. In this document - I think your Ministry has received it - there are various revealing images. Please study the document, but look at the previous proposals as regards the reafforestation of the University of Thessaloniki. His contribution to something good will be extremely useful. This is not the case - and I am closing down, Mr President - as you may have been told. There are serious hazards. We warn from now, in the hope that you will move quickly, so that we do not have any more unfortunate incidents of last two-day fires. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Mr. Castanides. Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. You will allow me, Mr Simopoulos, to begin with Mr Castanides. Dear Mr. Castanides, I imagine you're a driver. Do you drive a car or not?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u98	If necessary, yes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u99	‘If necessary, yes’. I ask you if you know how to drive, if you drive your car sometimes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u100	Do you mean a bike?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u101	No, bike no. I wish. You drive a bike? Even better.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u102	You guys, I'm imagining a bike move.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u103	All right, come on. Mr. Undersecretary, continue.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u104	So if you drive a car - which you drive - you badly say you don't trust algorithms. Because when you drive your car and press gas or brakes, the algorithm takes care of them. Algorithm regulates when you will prey and when not and when you will speed up. So I want to say technology, don't...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u105	Listen to what I'm saying!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u106	Sure. You too, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u107	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u108	Do not delete technology. Technology is a weapon, it's a means, it's a tool, it's something we can use and that's what we do. As far as the eighteen high-risk areas are concerned, which through algorithms, analyses and scientific evidence have been placed under this scheme, are the beginning. There'll be more, if necessary. And I have a feeling - not to tell you the certainty - that Shah Soo... - Mr. Chardalias, we were talking about you, Mr. Undersecretary...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u109	Please, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u110	...he'll take his way. As regards, Mr Simopoulos, the division of powers, let us say first of all that the control and responsibility of the management of the forest of Shahik Yours belongs to the Decentralised Command, through the Forest of Thessaloniki. The Ministry of the Environment has an institutional role, a role as coordinator. So the Forestry has this specific competence by Presidential Decree of 2010. You have made a proposal, that there should be a metropolitan body, a single body responsible for management. It is a very good proposal that you should put on to all the stakeholders, namely the region, decentralised, to us, to the Municipality of Thessaloniki, to the other neighbouring municipalities. I would say that we need a fermentation between the parties concerned and, from now on, finding the legal tools, everything can be done if all the parties involved agree that this is the best solution. In relation to the presence of the Forest Service, Mr Simopoulos, in this body - I do not know what you called it, body or body - forest services are supernecessary. They know the forest, they have the know-how, they have experience and they can, with their scientific authority, give the directions for where to manage a forest, namely Shahik Soo in one direction or another. However, I have the knowledge - you know that, recently, last week, the regional council became. In fact, Mr Djijkostas on the regional council - which I read and watched - called for the region to take responsibility for the forest of Sheikh Soo. And one more thing about funding, because 'cash money' and if there is no money, nothing can be done. I would like to add to my prototype and some other money that we, the Ministry of the Environment, made by using and using PAAT, namely the Rural Development Programme and sub-measure 8.3 we have EUR 79 million - huge sum - in all municipalities and forest services for flood protection and fire protection. Also, we in the Ministry of the Environment from the Public Investment Programme gave 1.5m euros for opening, maintaining, improving, safeguarding forest roads and doing so. In any case, the issues of urban greenery to us are very important and high in our priorities, and therefore, Mr Kastanidis, speaking of the reafforestations you said if they are going to need to, yes, I would like to inform you that we have set up and approved a budget of EUR 30 million for Shahik Soo and the rest of the leaps and parks and forests of the Municipality of Thessaloniki, because we want to upgrade the quality of life of the city. We want the citizen, the citizen, to be able, dear Mr Kastanides, to take his bike as well and go to the woods and make mountain cycling, to have hiking routes to walk. These are things that we not just want as a theory but also in practice. And I will mention another element to you: in the Recovery Fund, we in the Ministry of the Environment have put a large section to finance EUR 100 million for the protection of biodiversity, for the opening, opening, maintenance of paths, as well as the drones, the well-known pedestrians, the - introductory - of registered pedestrians, which each pedestrian is a small ecosystem, a small ecosystem that protects biodiversity, and even with a small pedestrian - pedestrian pedestrian - you can build a wall against the climate crisis. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u111	Well, thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. We continue with the fourth with number 805/25-5-2021 topical question of the second Piratos II cycle of the Communist Party of Greece. Diamonds Manolakos to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Direct restoration and integrated protection of the forest area destroyed by the recent fire in Schinos Korinthias". Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u112	A real tragedy in Geranias with the forest fire in Schinos Korinthias, which spread to the wider region of Aleppohori and the Megaris with great destruction. Over seventy - one thousand acres burned, of which fifty - two thousand acres were forests and forest lands. This disaster has shown - if you like - the time-consuming responsibilities of the urban state and its governments for the total lack of integrated protection of the forest ecosystems of Greece, and especially - and I stress it - the management of the particular state forest that was burned and previously allocated for rhein collection. There is no one in the management - but none! - an anti-nuclear protection study is required by the relevant office, which should normally provide for the necessary forest-prevention and fire-fighting projects. Much more what he showed - if you like - the fire is the complete abandonment of the forest and the size of the destruction. But we describe these. Now what's going on? And that's the point. For burnt areas, there must be a programme of inclusive protection and explicit prohibition of any other use, including the installation of wind turbines, much more since they have seen the publicity of views and forest photographic materials that a year after their destruction have been refreshed with wind turbines. Given that this now burnt forest ecosystem needs to be protected directly by means of flood relief measures, studders and barricades, but also necessary anti-flood protection measures, in the context of this overall management of the forest that was to be used, we do not ask, Mr Secretary, that we ensure overall the restoration of the forest, the implementation of a management and anti-nuclear protection study by the relevant forestry services. Secondly, we call for the necessary funds and permanent staff to be available, since only one forestist and no one else is serving in the Forestry. What can man do first? Thirdly, we call for you to ban the installation of RES and particularly wind turbines in all burnt forests and forest land, but also for the particular area, so that it is literally anti-incentive to arson and then enters wind turbines. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u113	Thank you, Mrs Manolakou. Here, Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mrs Manolakou, you have shown your sensitivity to environmental protection and natural disasters as a member of the Committee on the Environment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u115	We're together!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u116	That's right, Mrs Manolakou, we're together, and that's why I can say it! Because I know firsthand how important you are in these matters. And we agree. You said, you don't ask, but you ask what you quote later. With you! What you are asking for, and I will say in detail, we have already put it in the programme and will implement it in the way you described it. The government has shown that it has particular sensitivity to the issues of protection, especially forest wealth. I would therefore like to assure you, from the Stepping of the House, that it will not be abandoned even half a inch of a burning forest. One way to do this is by physical regeneration. For this forest, the fifty thousand of the sixty - four thousand acres burned, was a virgin forest which, unfortunately, burned for the first time. So forestists, forestists and forest scientists tell us that there is too much chance of it recovering itself. One way, then, to return the forest to its form is by natural regeneration. Also, where the forest cannot be reborn, of course, in the burnt areas, in Shinos, in Corinth, in Attica, we will be joining the National Reafforestation Plan of all these lands, so that our intervention can be re-opened. I will also tell you, for wind turbines, like for the quarry mines - mines that I have read that they may suddenly grow in the burnt area, but after I have become a little more specific about the work we are doing now, because it is clear and surely you want to know how we are going after this great fire. First of all, the first and foremost is the proclamation of the region as a reservoir. We have exploited and exploited the potential of technology, all the possibilities, such as the unmanned vessels of the Institute for Mediterranean and Forest Systems, which are constantly flying over the burnt area and recording the burnt area. Also, with the support and cooperation of the Western Attica Forests Department, we already have the "multiple" of the fire. So we even know the last point where they are burned and where they are not. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] There is another point here. Here is the question of forest maps. For the first time in Greece, with an important and great job that has been done in the last two years in the Ministry of the Environment, we posted forest maps throughout the territory. So thanks to the existence of forest maps, we can cross the true forest, so that we can protect it from possible future violations. We will not allow anyone to reduce the forest by trespassing and so on. We have also issued all banning forestry provisions for grazing, logging and hunting. We have drawn up the logging tables, so that we know what burnt, burned trees and burned logs are that need to be removed and may cause disease and insult to healthy unburned trees. In addition, we are now preparing the studies on flooding, anti-corruption and hydro-corruption projects, which are clearly and clearly needed in order to document, 'lock', secure the area. And immediately afterwards - and already, that is, we are working on - once the study has been completed, we are going to reafforestation. As I said, Mr President, we will monitor natural regeneration and, where this is not possible, we will come back with artificial reafforestation. Can I have some more time, Mr President, and then go on with my denology?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u117	Yes, you can continue, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u118	Also, Mrs Manolakou, the burned were sixty - six thousand four hundred seventy - seventy acres, not all of them in the woods. We have brought in contact - this is our job, it is not some news, we are constantly doing so - the Forest Works and Infrastructure Directorate with the Forest Services of two Decentralised Administrations, Attica and the Peloponnese, and we are absolutely certain that all the funding that will be required will be guaranteed from now on. So, I keep going on in my denology. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u119	Good, Mr. Undersecretary. Here, Mrs Manolakou, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u120	Mr. Undersecretary, we know your sensitivity. But we do not agree that the government has the same sensitivity. And I'm telling you this because before we filed the timeline, we sought the government measures that had been announced and we were concerned. And today we are even more concerned about it and we are telling you that with all honesty, because it is the most devastating fire in the last ten years, and even June, when more than five thousand acres are usually not burning. I mean, so disastrous was the direction of fire. However, from the announcements we had from both the Ministry of Interior and the Ministry of Infrastructure, and from Mr Chrysochide, there seems to be no concrete measures that are needed at the moment. You didn't answer us specifically either. And what do we ask? We also have the experience, if you like, of the great fire of Kineta that was not taken care of and the floods followed. We do not want the general framework because it can be done, it can do nothing. We have heard a number of times in general. We want you to give us a specific timeframe on whether you have commissioned and who will do the study. The Grand Forest can't objectively be. He's a man, the master. Second, when are the workshops going in for the projects? The gradients are long. By September - and we are June - where rain begins, these must be ready! That's why we're asking for a timeline. To accept that whatever resources are needed, you have them, but you also need staff. And why do we call it this pressing, and we ask you to tell us in your dentistry? Because the Government of New Democracy took over from SYRIZA and previous governments with a new anti-liberal, anti-environmental legislative work, because it wants to strengthen green capitalists. That's all the time. In fact, at a time when coarse money is being channelled into the investments of the 'green' economy, there is still underfunding and underscoring the necessary infrastructure and mechanisms of civil protection and the lack of integrated protection in forest management. I have never heard of this great fire, after this great tragedy, the phrase "Forest Service", which is its role for prevention and rehabilitation. Of course, there are also manned ships. That the area will be resurrected, that is compulsory by the Constitution. You can't do any different. If you don't declare it, you have, how to say it, criminal responsibilities. Of course for us, however, we call it a purely balanced relationship between man and nature and the philosophical management of the natural environment cannot be carried out in this exploitive system, because it also considers the forest ecosystem a commodity and is therefore destroyed in order to get other business. We have lived and discussed it together in the Committee on the Environment, Public Health and Consumer Protection: in the light of large fires in mountainous areas, in 'NATURA' areas, wind turbines are planted. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u121	Mr. Undersecretary, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u122	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Manolakou, I shall begin with the latter: I assure you, I assure the House, that I assure the citizens who are listening to us that we are not going to allow them to appear in the burns of Shinos, Aleppochori, Attica and Corinth. Not a lepit! He won't even appear from a distance on a burnt wind generator! Similarly, we will not allow a half-point loophole to open on the ground, supposedly for a quarry, for a mine, for a bauxite for anything. These are web-news. To God, I'm not saying you adopt them. I assure the House that we will do our utmost to make the burnt-outs in this region come back to their original green situation. We will fight and we will succeed, because we have the scientific potential, we also have the resources, so that the reafforestation and restoration of the ecosystem are done in the best and fastest way. I would therefore like to make it clear that neither wind turbines, mines, quarrying, roads, artificial surfaces, nor anything of this kind will allow it to appear on the ground. You asked for a timeline. Already the two decentralised administrations, since the burnt area belongs to two, Attica and the Peloponnese, have commissioned the study of mountainous, hydronomist and anti-corrosion projects and, in particular, to the urgent procedure. Also, half a step before that is the declaration in an emergency and the Municipality of Megaron. The truth is that here we have an extension of the emergency status, given that this area had been declared in an emergency from the fire that had taken place on July 23, 2018, you mentioned earlier. That extension is for six months. Accordingly, as regards the municipality of Loutraki - Perahora, the area was declared in an emergency by 22 November 2021. What does that mean, practically? It means that very easily they can draw resources from the respective region, since on such a legal basis they can prioritise and without bureaucracy draw as much money as is needed to restore the forest ecosystem. You are right, Mrs Manolakou, that forest services should be protagonists in everything that has to do with the forest, its protection or its restoration. And unfortunately the harsh truth is that forest services are licenses from the world. The last intake, Mr President, was seventeen years ago. So we are faced with a sad phenomenon, as you said, Mrs Manolakos, while there are forest services, not having sufficient staff. Forestry services belong to decentralized administrations, they don't belong to us, the Ministry of the Environment. But that does not matter to the citizen, the citizen does not care where he belongs to the public, but he wants to do so. That is why we have proceeded immediately in the next few days and will finally be announced by the OAED, firstly, the recruitment of seven hundred foresters, foresters and managers from the shared programmes of the OAED with funding from the Social Cohesion Fund and, at the same time, the recruitment of three hundred permanent officials from the Forest Service. We know their shortcomings very well, we know very well the difficulties of their work, we recognise their efforts and we assist them in every way, in every way, and as I have said at last after seventeen years, we will have the first uptakes in the forestry service. I think I've answered all your questions. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u123	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Questions to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy have been completed. A series now has three questions to the Ministry of Citizen Protection, to which the State Secretary, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, will reply. We move immediately to the second debate under number 810/28-5-2021 of a topical question from the Second Chamber of Members of Parliament B2' Western Sector of Athens of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for the Protection of Citizens, on the subject: "The state mechanism for the treatment of forest fires". Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u124	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Chardale, we should no longer hide the truth. Indeed, it is true that twenty-five days ago we had discussed a corresponding timely question on the country's anti-nuclear protection. You have made a public commitment here, in Parliament and, of course, in the Greek people, that everything will be fine, that we are prepared, that we have plans, we will bring air inside, we will, we will. But it didn't take three days, and the result disproved you. This great fire took place in Corinth and West Attica - and we must not forget that, Mr Patulis, we did not hear him at this time, I would say, at all - and this fire had the concrete results. You talked about misfortune. I am very sorry, but we cannot talk about misfortune when about seventy-two thousand acres were burnt when the situation is so difficult at the moment. We cannot talk of misfortune when we are caught unprepared, when we have paper designs and, in fact, the result does not confirm us. On the contrary. It is known that there were warnings beyond the overall climate change at a global level, but also warnings specific from experts, from scientists about how difficult it will be for the fires to pass on. And April was too burdened with forest fires, about a thousand four hundred. On the other hand, in May, however, they burned what I mentioned in this fire - about seventy-two thousand acres, when usually all the previous years did not exceed five thousand acres. This shows a new situation, but a new situation that needs preparation, does not require communication. Because that is what you and your government have done. Retrospective meetings were held at the Ministry, the fine buildings that were set up there, civil protection, which I would say is positive, but not just that. That's not the country's preparation. And, of course, the unimportant, basic anti-nuclear period, which we have heard for the first time. You'll tell us, Mr. Undersecretary, these new planes are here. The six trainers, from what I've read, have already arrived. You had spoken about the air fleet, etc., which will come, after the anti-nuclear period had begun, and all the mechanism had to be ready from the beginning. On this, however, I would like to ask you, first of all, how much the aircraft used four days for the suppression were costed. We saw from the Air Force some things about flights, hours, etc. There's a lot about writing. I don't believe anything. I want to hear from you. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would also like to ask you about the new ones that will come - the six, as we have said, really - by what process has happened. Was it via NSPA? Oh, no. He had a competition up last September, he went down then went up again to January, disappeared again from the internet. So, direct assignments here, too, Undersecretary?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u125	Mrs. Kafantaris, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u126	Also, by closing the first part, I will say this. You use the law that you have advertised that it would solve the problems selectively, according to articles, not as a whole. We talked about it last time. No regulatory acts, etc. You spoke of the situation of special mobilisation of civil protection in eighteen parts of Attica. I would like to ask you this committee referred to in Article 42, the risk assessment committee, which must also exist to operate Article 26 on special mobilisation, has been set up in your Ministry? However, there is no 'TRAINING'.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u127	Mrs. Kafantaris, please very much complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u128	I'll tell the rest of it in second place. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u129	You have your dentistry, too. Mr. Chardalia, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u130	Somewhere the dear Mrs. Kafantaris turns a question into ten different issues, which, whenever you want, I have invited you and caused you, bring a debate at committee level or at any level you want to discuss. [[This is where the President-in-Office is occupying Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, Vice-President of Parliament.]] But this tactic, which you ask, and on this question, you come to your protology in three minutes and throw fireworks populist, will allow me to tell you with full respect...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u131	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u132	He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u133	...of course they're populist and I'll tell you why. I didn't interrupt, I listened very carefully. You know that I respect you, because we have common struggles on environmental issues and on the Hygiene League and on our joint self-government course. But that does not mean that the white must baptize it black. You forsake us because it is inactive - it says - a law which I remind you that you voted against it, you voted against it, and selectively you use articles based on incorrect information. Who told you that the Risk Assessment Committee referred to in Article 42 is the one that determines an area whether or not to be judged in an emergency?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u134	You didn't say that?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u135	No relationship. Please read and whenever you want to be informed. What the Committee on Risk Assessment says is that it considers works by a municipality or by the State or regions if they have to take by way of derogation an authorisation procedure within 90 days of their technical studies. That's what he says. Let's go and see exactly what's happened. Because I prepared a little for the Germans. You come here, then, and you blame us on a number of issues. How much did it cost - it says - the fire extinguisher? How much does it cost for a human life, Mrs. Kafantari, to answer that question? Is it possible in such a debate to discuss in terms of each company, which gives the various publications right and left? Listen to something: We will not make use of what we need to do in order to keep Greek citizens safe under difficult circumstances. The procedures we have followed are procedures provided for by the law and are procedures, because you refer to the NSPA, which NSPA officially comes in and says, "We can't do it." So what do we do? Do we use the legal tools that the law gives us, always with the appropriate measure, always many times and transnationally, and do we proceed with procedures so that we can ensure the means required by the State Secretary, who is asking for someone else? No, what the operational arm of civil protection is asking for, which is the Fire Corps. Let's go for a bit on fire. This fire was an extremely difficult fire, which occurred in the evening hours of Wednesday 19 May in this area and evolved under extremely dangerous and difficult conditions. Are you questioning the blows of the winds that surpassed the eightboats, the high- height flames that created turbulence, microclimates and heavy heat loads, with many and exceptional hazards for the front forces? I will only tell you traits that that night that fire in four and a half hours walked ten miles [300 km], passing through settlements, threatening human life. And all this - I tell you again - through settlements, under difficult conditions. With regard to the size of fire and the timing - yes, I will say again - you must bear in mind that something similar had happened twenty-one years ago in Samos and it seemed quite obvious that the mechanism from the first moment was vigilant and was on guard. If you judge the mechanism, which the same night evacuated settlements safely, saved human lives and which, from the very beginning, was thrown into the fire battle, is abusive. He's abusive to firefighters, police officers and all the executives and volunteers, who were present that night in the first hour, Mrs. Kafantaris. Were these people unharmed? Did the mechanism work? At 6 o'clock in the morning, we had the entire fleet, came from Thessaloniki as well as 415 and shot at an extremely difficult occasion and on an extremely difficult fire. And I listen to you, I honestly speak to you, with too much insectivity and above all with great respect to say things that are completely unfounded. But are you seriously coming and telling us that we were up and running and I said that we were unfortunate about this fire? Don't put words in my mouth that I've never said. It was a specific question I was answering. I said the misfortune over the air was that it was a few days before the growth of air means. What is a surprise to you? You know very well that in airtight the usual tactics are to be leased for a hundred and twenty days. Why are they hired for a hundred and twenty days? Because these instruments are also being used in the other hemisphere. It's only a month for their transport, their maintenance and the exercises they need to be ready. So, in fact, when they are released late April from Australia, it is certain that they will come here at that time. How do these develop? They shall be developed on the basis of the design and suggestion of the final design of the firefighting unit. So what did we do? We want to cover the hundred and twenty days these. You are now coming, Mrs Kafantaris - and I do not mean you personally - and we are being blamed for the reason of the unprepared mechanism. You remind us that on 25 May we are already in the anti-missile. Really? On May 2, the seasons were trained in their posts. In 2018 the seasons were found in their posts on July 5, Mrs. Kafantaris. Who was government then? I would remind you that in 2017 and 2018 you received air within July and August, Mrs Kafantaris. We're trying to get one class. We are trying to put priorities, at the same time that we have moved forward in a very short time in a series of structures, infrastructures, processes and instruments, which have as their sole aim, as a bet, to be able to defend human life, to safeguard the natural environment and human assets. But at the time of battle, the choice is clear: human life. From the very first moment we've been beaten into this battle, in a difficult battle. We lost fifty-two thousand forest acres on an area of seventy thousand. You're finally confusing the extent of the fire. We were able to demarcate it within a hundred hours in difficult circumstances. Ask the foresters. Ask experienced people about the situation and the relief of these fires, with a virgin forest, in the ravines, which was at great risk of all being carried anywhere through the ravages at night under trembling. We have set some very specific priorities from the first moment. We were up in the business chamber and fighting with all those people who were in the field so that we could demarcate and control the fire and most importantly not put any human life at risk. That was our main concern. This is our daily agony. This is our daily concern. In my dentistry, if I get the opportunity, I'll answer you on individual other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u136	Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for three minutes. And be three minutes, please too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u137	Okay. And Mr. Undersecretary spoke more. It's serious.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u138	And you spoke a little more. The Undersecretary you held? And you spoke three times a year!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u139	First of all, I would like to remind everyone who is listening to us and you, Mr Secretary, that you have been running for two years. Reverting to the past makes no sense. Now what do we do? Now what the scientific world says, now what warnings we have on a global level too. Second, you lost your temper a little. Let me say that it confirms what we are saying, that there was no prevention policy. You've been talking all this time about air means. They're late, they're late, they didn't come from the beginning of the anti-nuclear. You spoke of a sense of repression. The fires, however, and the upgraded civil protection, as you want it, are talking about prevention policies and what have you done here? I will also remind you of your position on the World Environment Day. You spoke specifically of prevention. Prevention was not there, Mr. Chardalia. The result shows that. Retrospectively you come to this great meeting with the Prime Minister, district managers, Fire Corps, etc. And you say about these eighteen points you chose that you said and before that happened, to my own question. You saw what happened in Hippocrates. They stopped the works of the private contractor and left with your own intervention as well. What's the preparation? And I come and say, "Medea", February. Now we're May, June. There is still accumulated biomass and you are now coming to manage it. In fact, at this meeting, Mr. Secretary, I would say that you and Mr. Petsas have spoken about prevention policies: 'We are preparing a pilot programme which, from October, hopefully will be the absolute reserve for preventive work throughout the country'. You also say, "As the Prime Minister's mandate, a public investment programme of 300 million is being prepared..." - I think you will tell us later - "that will concern five years and will respond to the fires". But now what? How is the mechanism prepared? With regard to this fire, I do not want to forget that on 20 April, Police Director Corinthia - there is also the document - had warned of the danger - beware - and of the problem of the road that unites Aleppochori with Shino. He'd warned. You say you've done prevention. How did you coordinate those responsible? ‘There will be planning from autumn’. Summer now what's going to happen? After all, Mr Secretary, there is also money from the European Union - a press release in February and March - which can be used. Now, Mr. Undersecretary, the residents there are upset. They held a meeting yesterday. I guess you do. It's the initiative of local residents. I shall submit this document. Anyway, take it seriously, because human life is important, no one disputes it, but the forest wealth of our country, our ecosystem is just as important and we have to give it to the next generations. Prevention didn't exist. Politicians, communication has been extensively demonstrated - if you like - and by how you were placed, focusing on repression and not on prevention policy, which is the most important thing in what we call civil protection. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u140	Thank you, too. You have the floor, Mr. Undersecretary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u141	Once again, respectful Mrs. Kafantari, you will be exposed. And I say that you will be exposed in the sense that you do not follow all the effort that is being made and there are some gaps in your information that either your partners do not give you societies or there is a general problem of knowledge, which I think is not in the section on Civil Protection. First of all, these areas were declared long before the Geranyas. Why were these areas declared in an emergency? Because in the Fire Service and the General Secretariat of Civil Protection for the first time, we are running a programme of simulations for negative KPIs that can be applied in the short term together and can be threatened in some areas of human life. So we ran it at the end of April, early May, asking the Office what these areas are in Attica which, under any circumstances, and a circumstance of events and at the same time could develop into a new Eye. That was the question. The agency came in and showed these eighteen areas. Eighteen! Our initial assessment was that there were four, five regions. The Puerto German, Shinias, Hippocrates, is something that apparently seemed. However, the simulations we have run have highlighted eighteen areas. You know, the pathogens and the arrhythmias of decades cannot, with a magic wand, a service which does not have the responsibility of the General Secretariat for Civil Protection and no responsibility for this cleaning process. So we also took this responsibility, because our unreserved responsibility and the mandate of the Prime Minister are to do everything we can to preserve human life. Why did we preach these eighteen areas? For two reasons. Firstly, in order to enable self-government - and seeing that there was a problem with regard to the rest of the 'Medea' - to proceed to immediate cleansing. That's a piece. We were just viewers, Mrs. Kafantari, in this? No way. So listen. Within 30 days we have completed the technical studies, the negotiation with the Association of Hellenic Workshops and we proceed to eighteen anti-nuclear armour operations in these areas, which are in progress. I think within the next six working days you'll see crews entering these eighteen areas. In this also add the total of twenty-six tanks that we place on the basis of the proposal of the Fire Department, add the escape route opened next week in the Hippocrates state, which over the years have just been following the problem of the State Hippocrates, but no one has gone there to walk these streets and run the scenario if the fire can and pass the first setup zone which will be in danger. The same procedure will proceed next week with the Sheik Sue. But be careful. What issues? On matters that the General Secretariat for Civil Protection does not have, but no competence, we simply cannot wait. We cannot expect all the things that have created decades of arrhythmias. Responsibilities are everywhere. It is an hour that we all have to sit on a table and see how we resolve all these pathogens, how decentralised authorities, the municipalities, and the regions, can coordinate them with all those involved. In any case, however, we must agree that the General Secretariat for Civil Protection has no competence in the part concerning the application of fire-fighting zones or anything else. To coordinate yes, we also assume that responsibility. And we take that responsibility away from us, you know why? Because we believe it is time for each of us not to hide behind its responsibilities, but with a great deal of responsibility towards everything that has happened and the need to be able to sit on a table and work together, because what we are doing is doing and about the procedures and the financing and operating issues is the absolute reserve, you said so too. But you know what? Confidentiality and cooperation with cries, we're not helping anyone. We've jumped these eighteen months in the middle of a pandemic. I have invited you and you have been challenged in the good sense to come. It's not just that we built some nice buildings and you tell us "bravo you made them". Do you know how it was managed and to close with it? The General Secretariat in Evangelistria, Monastiraki, the Headquarters of Firefighting in Murouse, Kolonaki, the Deputy Minister in Katechaki, the Business Center in Halandri? Have you seen any serious countries with an organised national mechanism to deal with crises thus operating its services? We got them all together. Now, we're getting started, and we're working on a systematic basis. We have created the general projects that the country did not have general plans to deal with. Is this all communal, Mrs. Kafantari? You are unfair to all these people who have been working nights for too, too many months for all of this, people who have worked together and you, people who really wanted to give something more, people who have been working so that we can improve and solve, leave all these pathogens behind. Civil protection needs cooperation, we need understanding. It's a deeply patriotous challenge. It concerns each of us and the country itself. And most importantly, it concerns our own children, a society that we want to make safe for our children, especially for the future of our country.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u142	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Have a good time, Mrs. Kafantari. We move to the fifth, with number 822/31-5-2021, a topical question by MP B2' Western Athens Sector of Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: “The fire at Corinthia / Western Attica - Geranias is the most devastating, in terms of burnt forest, of the last decade.” Mr Arseni, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u143	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Undersecretary, we read in the newspaper "DIMMOCRATIA" the interview by Mr. Dessula, a volunteer forester and president of the exorraisist club "The Old Mountains". The newspaper asks him: "What is the picture that you have seen, the ninety-year-old burns up? " "No, of course not. He's never been ninety years old. We received a call around 9: 45 from the fire department. I called the volunteer, Mr. Lambrou, who handled our own fire brigade, and we left. When we got there, there were three plots burning. It was the most infamous olive grove the media say, a plot with some olive groves. Did you see burnt pruning from the ninety-year-old? In the center of the plot there was a fireplace, though. It wasn't fresh. We didn't find a white ashes anywhere. Also, it is never possible for the fire to go to the right - left and burned the entire plot of foreigners.” "Have the Firefighting Review seen these?" "Yes, he's seen them. They walked the whole area to find out where the fire started." "Did they find the famous ninety-year-old man who set the fire?" "I want to say in all respects that we in Shino do not know any ninety-year-old. There we are measured beans and one knows one another." Apparently, then, there is no ninety-year-old. 'How did that rumour come out?' "It started with the testimony of a woman who said that a ninety-year-old had set fire on another plot, not on the olive grove. However, this plot is located elsewhere in the fire, which was burnt much later." So this myth is falling apart. “Then another witness was heard about the ninety-year-old who set fire in the olive grove. Then Grandpa became a granny who burned up highbrows, and then Chardalia told us. Well, we in Shino, ninety-six years old, we don't have in the area. So if there was a grandfather, there was no way he ran in and got scared into his house," he says -- and he explains it's not possible. "But since Mr. Chardalias knows him, and we've never seen him, it's enough and it's too much. And since he knows his age, he knows his name and address. We expect him to be interrogated." "Was there anything that impressed you in those difficult hours?". "The fire started at the time of the fire shift change. Because Schino has a fire extinguisher that's hosted in our offices. And when they went for a shift, the fire immediately started. In short, the so-called grandfather waited for the fire department to get off. Also, there was another paradox. There's a forest corridor that connects one area to the other that would take us out into the main tank to supply water. Well, someone had gone down the road and made ditches so nobody could pass. The fire extinguisher had to go back five miles to get water. That's where everything's gone." "What led to the huge catastrophe?" "There has been no prevention in the Ground Mountains for years. The firearms have been cut for years. There's nowhere an anti-nuclear zone. There is no management of the forest.’ We're wondering, Mr. Chardale, how, while there's a pre-evaluation procedure in the fire, which is secret, you come in and state publicly that the fire is due to a ninety-year-old man. We wonder if, in your opinion, the testimony of this man, the volunteer forester, is correct, and whether you will withdraw these statements he has made.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Civil Protection will answer Mr. Hardalias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u145	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papoutsis, I was very surprised to hear from my colleagues about this timely question. I was a little optimistic that from the day you tabled it to the day you were discussed, you would have gone to the trouble of reading the actual statements of my own. So I invite you and I challenge you to tell me a statement from me concerning a ninety-year-old or anything else. My report was a basic one, resulting from the real facts, as I was informed by local firefighters. The fire was started by burning certain residues in nearby olive groves. It's over. All about ninety-year-olds, I honestly speak to you, I do not understand and I invite you and I challenge you to present it to the House which I have made such statements, and if not to any of my colleagues. You know you cannot put a timely question to the logic that 'they said', 'I heard', 'he said','removed'. In other words, we are in the Greek Parliament and I really want to have these kinds of debates. There is a man who testifies something in the newspaper, who does not testify to the preliminary investigation. I am frankly speaking to you, the product of his answers to some of the issues we have sent it to our own inquiries, which goes ahead with this process. You know, we're not going to go into a logic to interfere with the work of any interrogation service. It is our principle that when a preliminary investigation is under way, there must be respect. We made a statement on the first day, which was actually recorded in the press releases of the Fire Service. For all the other ninety-year-olds, I honestly speak to you, we cannot ask a question based on rumours. And can I tell you something else? All that the beloved and respected other volunteers say may have a basis. Indeed, the time the fire entered is the time that our patrols change. These are evaluated by the agency. Far from me, any interference in the service and, most importantly, any reference to events that are not clear and truly clear. And I tell you with great appreciation, because I think we have raised such an important issue, such as this fire - which arises from issues which I would like to answer in my denture - on an axis that is moving in what a volunteer told a newspaper about what he heard, what he is rumoured, what he knows and what he does not know. In any case, then, what is happening is this: we had to deal with - I said to Mrs Kafantari - an extremely difficult fire under difficult circumstances. The conditions in which the fire entered are being investigated. The reason why they're late, because they're not late, if there's an ID or there's no ID is not my business. And I am the last, and as political leadership, to intervene in my service. What we are asking is the excellent work done by our address on other issues to continue and if any guilty person can be identified, justice can be done as necessary. Because we did have a great environmental disaster. But an environmental disaster that was not based on the state's inefficiency. It was based on the special conditions that accompanied this fire. And you know, while flames are digging with eight booms and turbulence are forming, creating that microclimate from which life of firefighters themselves may be at risk, the choice is clear, there is no false dilemma: Save the citizens. And this fire started in the settlements. And we fought in the settlements, building - building. On the second night we fortified facilities only to keep the settlements from burning, because the fire was fleeing uncontrolled into a virgin forest through ravines. Of course, we lost a lot of acres, but most importantly, we also fought a few battles that we won. We managed not to threaten the wildlife shelter Platanos - Mills, but also to resurrect the course of the fire with all-night battle on the southeast side and toward the city of the Megaron through difficult streams and the wider area of the Holy Monastery of Agios Jerotheos. We made a huge effort. And such a "mega fire" we managed to demarcate it within forty-eight hours. Are we satisfied? Every acre lost leaves us no satisfaction. Through this process we are also trying to demarcate whether something happened as it was, if there were mistakes, if there were problems. But the relief is specific. I expected questions to be asked about the status of these forests. Why, Mr Arsenis, these forests are considered private forests. And let me personally and as a State Secretary and as an active citizen put on the introductorys they need. What does "private forests" mean? Does it mean that the responsibility for their maintenance, their cleaning, who have it? The foresters. These are arrhythmias and pathogens for decades. These issues we have to sit at a table and solve. And obviously in such situations the question of prevention is again conflicting with a number of provisions which cover each other and the well-known Ping-Pong of responsibilities, which everyone after all is trying to fly. Our responsibility, the State Secretary, said so just now, is for the Ministry of the Environment to be able to proceed directly with the restoration work. Remember something, in Civil Protection, we are making a huge effort, an effort that - you know what? - he doesn't accept any excuses and he doesn't accept any discounts. The first to be strict with ourselves is us. Both the Secretary-General of Civil Protection and I personally and the Minister have been at the Business Centre since the first time. Three days in the business room we tried to be useful, to monitor the development of the business. With the means we had, the possibilities we had, the effort of our firefighters was a felony. It is an honor to these people, who have not been found unprepared, have not been found unprepared. They were there from the first moment and they fought the flames. And no human life was at stake. We have reduced the losses of our co-legislators' assets, and at the same time we have tried to demarcate it under difficult conditions as soon as possible. Every acre we lose hurts us, my colleague. From there on, the individual issues relating to prevention will give me the opportunity to develop them in dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u146	Mr Arsenis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u147	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Secretary, you must consult with the other members of the government. When Merra25 tabled an amendment asking for the thirty-year investment ban whether it is mining, whether it is windy, whether it is tourists or anything on land that was arson-burned by Mr Georgiadis, to reject this amendment, he said, "We know how the Geranias burned, we know it was the man who set a fire on the branches. It is negligently not about your amendment.' The testimony we have here speaks of arson. You'll have to consult with the government at the end of the day what happened to this fire. In our opinion, you should wait for the fire brigade to do its work first and not interfere with the pre-examination process. It's a little provocative to prejudge what happened and anyway, that it wasn't arson before the process was completed. And don't tell me that the burning of branches could be arson. Because as you said no one in society and in the media understood that. But let's go and see what you can do. Why has the post-training and promotion school of fire extinguishers not been taking place for so many years? What is the degradation of the preliminary and investigational work of the Firefighting? Why didn't you call for European solidarity to be so dramatic? Why have you not requested the assistance of the Union's Civil Protection Mechanism in order to avoid the destruction of the GDR? There was no other big fire in Europe at that time. The only "COPERNICUS" fire was a small-scale at the Italian border. There was availability. Why didn't you do the elementary thing? Of course, we are talking about a place where you did not have an anti-nuclear plan, about a place where there were no cleansing and about a place where we wonder the next day what will happen if the works against corrosion are done, the loggings, whatever it takes, if the next day will find us with soil and ecosystem loss, a definitive destruction of the forest and of course of property and human life. The big problem here, which you will not touch and will not touch, is Mr Chrysochide's policy since 1998, when he effectively abolished forestry services and built a fire-fighting fire brigade which he does not know about forestry. Here's the point, Mr. Chardalia. Delimitation is done and let the forest burn in between. Are settlements saved? After 1998 they started burning. And don't tell me it wasn't your government. Of all these years, 15 years you have had authority since 1998. And we have now arrived to burn settlements, burn forests, and that is not because of climate change, because of the lack of forest fires in green Greece. You have untrained firefighters. You talk about human lives and send them untrained to the forest fire, without training on how we deal with forests! Experts come from Australia you mentioned from other regions, from Cyprus, and show them the basics of how the fires are erased. From Cyprus! And people look with their mouths open, without elementary education. If you want to talk about civil protection, create fire extinguisher. Right now we don't have one. At the moment, the fires are burning the forests, and all the fire-fighting's doing is delimiting them and coming air inside. The rest burns and, finally, the settlements are burning.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u148	Thank you very much, Mr Arsenis. Mr. Chardalia, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u149	Mr Arsenis, I am really sorry when I hear some things put forward in Parliament, and especially, I would like to say with absolute respect - they are so extraordinarily unrealistic and that the reality and history have disproved them. You know, there's no one in Cyprus who comes to us to explain to us how they're firing fires. On the contrary, because I had the opportunity to know the system of Cyprus, whenever you want, we can discuss it and see whether this particular system, which our Cypriot brothers themselves want to change, could apply to Greece. I would therefore inform you that in the system which they have in Cyprus and which concerns the fires, four different bodies are involved. There's the Forest Service. If the fire is approaching a settlement in about a mile and a half, it's taking over... In other words, I would like to believe that Cyprus will proceed quickly in updating its plan for forest fires. Because I'm honestly talking to you, because I've studied it, under difficult circumstances it could be fatal. In any case, however, there are also experienced officials from the Forest Service there. There are experienced firefighting officials. There has been eternal conflict in Greece for decades too. I will not respond if what happened decades ago and relating to the fire-fighting procedure was transferred to the fire-fighting station or anything else. We now have something that is clear in our direction. Our cooperation with forestists, with the people who know the forests, is lasting. And believe me, the anti-nuclear projects concerning the treatment of fires and floods have been carried out mainly by consultation between us and a lot of discussion with the people who know the forest. We respect them and adopt their views. Now, in Gerranya, I'll tell you something and tell you where we are. Not even half a acre will be left that will not be declared resurrected. You have to understand that. Apart from conspiracy theories and any business interests that may press for anything in time, remember that there will not be a half a acre that has been burnt and will not be declared resurrected. And it is the responsibility of all of us who gave battle to those days to watch as much as we can withstand and as much as we can complete reafforestation of the region, but through a scientific process, not with communal terrestrials and fireworks, waiting for the processes relating to natural regeneration. And because I hear too much about fireworks, I said something myself, and Mrs Kafantaris said so, that our responsibility is not as a matter of competence but towards the natural environment as a civil protection we have already taken on without our responsibility and responsibility. And I am already telling you, then, that from October we are starting to work on firearms, not on the basis of studies that are not approved. It must be clear that an anti-nuclear zone means we may have to interfere in the woods. Let's agree on that. The anti-nuclear zones will be the result of consultation with the people who know the forests, with all those people who live the forest and know their behaviour. For the first time in the country, there will be an organised programme of 100 million from the Public Investment Programme and 200 million from the European Investment Bank, which will be involved at constant annual prevention, medium-sized and over-local levels, but which will come to respond to all these issues from time to time. Because as the Geraneas are hundreds of regions in our beautiful country and it is worthwhile at last by throwing down the "bang" and watching for decades this conflict of competence and lack of staff and funding, by sitting down and by agreeing that in order to preserve our forests and natural wealth, we need to have a concrete plan. This plan is followed by a step-by-step and with great pleasure I will welcome you whenever you ask and whenever you want, you and a delegation of your party, but also of Parliament, at the "Faro", in the new structure of Civil Protection, along with our forestists, along with our executives of Directorate I, together with our technical service, together with those people who work on a daily basis for all of this, which you are right to highlight, in order to understand the serious work done in Civil Protection.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u150	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. We now move on to the fifteenth, under number 821/31-5-2021, a topical question for the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on the subject: "To strengthen the fire structures in the Municipality of Sitia Lassithi of Crete". Mr. Synhronakis, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u151	Thank you, Mr President. Undersecretary, the anti-nuclear period has already begun, and we are very concerned to see that fire safety throughout the country remains unresolved. I will not now say for the whole country, but I will confine myself to the Municipality of Sitia Lassithi, which is a very large municipality, the largest municipality in Crete and the most sparsely populated. We believe that it is imperative to upgrade the Fire Scale to a Fire Service, in order to meet adequate and efficiently the increased operational obligations. And I say this because since 2003 all the governments, but all the governments, all the members of the Lassithi Prefecture of the parties that have been in power, have been limited to promises that 'yes, of course, within a few days, the request will be implemented' so as to reassure the concern of the people. I say the governments over time, not only today, but today does so. See just below how this is being exploited. The need for upgrades has highlighted, in addition to the trade union organs of the Crete Fire Corps, and there is a positive decision of the Executive Board. That's what I know from the meetings we've been doing, with our tours. They've seen the light of publicity and they haven't been disproved. At the same time, a necessary measure to strengthen fire structures is the creation of a fire gradient in the northern villages of Sitia, that is, the seaside. I mean, from Outside Mullian to Sfallah and Lastro, as to the east, from Paleokastro or Zakro side. Lacks, of course also of local administration, exist even in the construction of supply rings, covering all the villages of the municipal units of Sitia, Sitanos, Lefkis and Ascension. It is assumed that there are many factors that potentially increase the risks of fire in the area of Sitia. It is, for example, a dry-water area, perhaps the most dry-water area of Crete. There is the area of Xerokampos, for those who know it, which from the three hundred and sixty-five days a year for a very large number of days has ten to eleven. The whole Municipality of Sitia is an area with vegetarian forest land, with a multitude of settlements, with a difficult rural and provincial road network. There the Atherinolakkos station of PPC operates, there is an airport, there is the port of Sitia and is located almost throughout the municipality of wind and photovoltaic parks. At the same time, there is a very large tourist attraction in the canyons of the area. It has too many gorges, spit, Zakrou, Chocolate and so on. So the situation in the fire-fighting structures in the Municipality of Sitia is a feature of the direction of governments and the European Union in civil protection, firefighting and so on. It is not just a matter of staff, it is just a matter of one minister - the Minister is called upon to implement specific political directions - but also of the regional administration in matters of civil protection, which, in our opinion, are undermining the objective of protecting forest wealth, the need for fire protection and the other to serve, in our view, a few interests, since economic, spatial and operational planning are subject to the logic of cost-benefit. We ask you - and I conclude with that, Mr President - what are the direct actions, but with a timetable? Because now, all right, it has become "the bridge of Arta" since 2013. So you must give us an answer, solve the puzzle, in any case, for upgrading it to a fire extinguisher service in Sitia, and then create a stairway in the northern villages and also to the east, as I told you, to Palekastro, Zakros and the others, but fully staffed with permanent and stable work, to address the fire protection and fire protection needs and the other services offered by the service to the Municipality of Sitia on the sole responsibility of the state. Secondly, the renewal of equipment and personal protective equipment in line with the real needs. Thirdly, comprehensive prevention, the construction of refuelling rings covering the villages of Sitia, the permanentisation of all conventional fire extinguishers, their integration into the heavy and unhealthy professions and the cessation of this regime now, the atrocity - how else could it be termed? - this working regime, this globe of industrial relations, permanent, five-year-olds, seasonal and he goes on to say. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u152	Thank you, Mr Synthyakis. The Deputy Minister of Citizen Protection will answer Mr Nikolaos Chardalias. Mr. Chardale, you have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u153	Ladies and gentlemen, I am pleased that, through the timely question you ask, there are once again issues which the Greek state has been unable to resolve for decades. And that's the reality. Before I go into the substance of the issue of upgrading the services of this service and establishing new scales, I will tell you that even this procedure has been a process that has been a waste for many decades. And we see areas which have many different tiles, with seven to eight minutes' response times, and we have other areas where the response time is many times longer - look out - and forty minutes. What comes to show and raise this matter? The way to date and the issue of upgrading services and establishing scales was addressed by the Greek state. And you will allow me to tell you that a rational way of highlighting these issues and enabling the final design of the firefighting unit to decide was not there. What did we do from the previous anti-nuclear period? In the areas which were clearly great the problem of time for response to a fire and on the basis of objective criteria for the relief of the region, forest and protected areas, the lack of fire zones and the non-reservation of forest roads, we have moved very bravely and brought in and applied from the previous anti-nuclear system - and this year also - to the establishment of eighty seasonal scales. Seventy of them worked last year. Ten of them, with which we have had problems, already in consultation with the municipal authorities, are coming along. What should be done and what are we going to do right now? What are we planning? Complete restructuring of the issue relating to fire services and personnel. And I'll start with the staff first. What have we seen in the government? We have realised that the needs of civil protection and particularly of its most important operational arm, namely firefighting, are no longer seasonal. What do we have to do? To rationalise the facts in every corner of the country and on this basis and always in consultation with the financial staff and considering that the average age of fire extinguishers has now reached forty-five years, to decide bravely how to strengthen the Firehouse with permanent staff. And this exercise and consultation have been initiated for several months by the Prime Minister, with interest and concern of the Minister, Mr Chrysochoidis, and in consultation with the physical leadership. The question is not whether permanent staff will be recruited. The question is how any recruitment of permanent staff will come to serve real needs. So it is now important to restructure spatial planning on the basis of the new data available and after twenty years of the fire-fighting structures and infrastructure of the House. I will tell you that for the first time this year there is no single organic location on any island in the country. Do you know why? Despite the questions you have asked us about fire extinguishers, we have taken a difficult decision, at last, that the Fire Corps should leave the rospheological logic of the coarse and uncooled and enter and vote on the transfer regulation and the rating. What does that practically mean? That in the areas that we have supernumerical areas, that is, areas that we have more worlds than organic positions, with a transparent moleculation system that one cannot question, the latter in molecules are moved for one year to an island and then return to service for six years, or for two years on mainland Greece, returning to the service. And we see people who are ten, twelve, nineteen years in the same place - they have never been moved - at the same time that other colleagues are attracting them to the islands and to the outermost regions and who no one wants to go or wants to go all these years, leaving gaps, with all that that means for fire-fighting and for the needs of the Fire Service, now compulsory there is a transparent, equitable system, a system of equality, a system - you will allow me to say - democracy to the Fire Service. And this State Secretary, despite any pressures either from trade unions or from anyone else, is not taking a step behind the application of the law and the transfer regulation. I'm saying that for what? It is a matter of direct concern to this House, not to Sitia, to God - more generally after the transfer regulation, to open up many different tiles everywhere. Do they need staircases? Of course, they need staircases. Does it need to be restructured for spatial planning and functionality? Of course I do. What we do not need is in areas where we have supernumericals - and I do not say, to God, to Sitia - to create tiles and upgrades only so that some people, after many years, will not be forced to apply the transfer regulation and they too, like their other colleagues, will have to serve somewhere away from home and return. In my dentistry, you will allow me to give you concrete examples and answer the issues you have raised on heavy, unhealthy and other issues that you have raised. I want to close my prototype by telling you this: All from the outset, serious and responsible to the real facts, in consultation with our own firefighters, our officials, who are honoured, because they are making an enormous effort, as they are every day facing death! Every day, beyond any other House! Fire and police are the people who fight with death every day! So, in consultation with them, we are working at the moment we are discussing to present the next day's plan, a plan that will come to answer all these issues, which you are rightly concerned about, fight and put to the debate today in Parliament.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u154	Here you are, Mr. Synthraki, you have three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Undersecretary, you've made a general position, something like announcements. Okay, we can have a conversation like this, generalize it and talk. We are presenting every year, especially at the beginning of the anti-missile period - and not only - timely questions, parliamentary interventions, extra-parliamentary interventions on these issues. I will insist, however, on this particular fact, in itself, of course, and, at the same time, I too, because you cannot only restrict it in the case of the Municipality of Sitia. You said you needed full restructuring, spatial planning, stairways, to see what needs there are for permanent people, etc. No objections! To make this rationalization. But all governments were talking about rationalization. If we want to talk about rationalisation, we need to set the criteria for rationalisation, because if the criteria are cost-benefit, you realize that this is not just a trap, but the swan song, because we have been in very difficult times. The criterion will be the real needs of the Fire Corps, as well as of society itself. This is because so far experience has said that everything has been in the logic of cost-benefit. To us, the issue is obviously the permanentisation of fire extinguishers, those people who put their lives ahead. And you say so. We are all sensitive, but in practice we can prove how sensitive we are to employment issues, human life, etc. I told you about a very large county which has these peculiarities that I analysed in the prototype and which raises the degree of risk and difficulty. In this respect, therefore, you must consider the real needs. At the same time as you say this, we have a total downgrading of services in the areas of civil protection. The staff remains minimal. It has been declared over the past few years. And because you spoke about the issues of the criteria we need to set, I will tell you the following: In Crete, "FRAPORT" pulled dozens of firefighters at Chania airport. Have they ever been filled in fire services and staircases? Of course not. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] That is why the criterion is that we must protect 'FRAPORT', we must protect the business groups. It is important to privatize in this case and not to protect life. So who has the responsibility to take all these necessary steps? The government doesn't have it, so we can make it? Is the issue of fire prevention, anti-missile, anti-military protection vital? Is this a primary issue? Of course! What has the government done on these matters? We therefore insist, Mr Secretary-General, on the need to upgrade the stadium of Sitia to the Fire Service and to fully serve to simulate seasonals. There's a need for seven extra firefighters over there. There you go! Here's Rhodes, behold, and fuck! Recruitment so that this service can be served as far as possible! There are vehicles right now that are decommissioned because there are no spare parts, you know that. Suppliers, while under the conditions of the competition for ten years to obtain spare parts, declare weakness. Physical leadership raises hands high and political leadership simply gives promises that in the future they will make all this. In any case, you must design and act on the basis of the real needs. It is therefore necessary to establish the Fire Service in Sitia. They all confess. So you need to answer that very specifically. You also said about the eighty seasonal steps you made, and indeed, on the basis of objective criteria. So can I ask you a further question, too? The climax on Handra Sitia how it happened, how did it turn out? You know that? Tell me about it! Was it a request? Was it the Fire Corps? Were they trade unionists? Was it a society? How did the Climax occur in Handra July 2020? Here, give us an answer! And it's a climax where there wasn't even a building and they took them to the old police, which had no power, no water, no tank, no phone, no chairs, nothing. He didn't have anything! So, in short, what are you doing? Refer all these issues to both the Fire Service and the staircases and everything else in the future, to the bells. In practice, a lot of words. I too know how to speak - let me say it - and make both intact and downright, but that is not the case. You should therefore give a solution immediately. You don't want this solution and not you personally - do you? - because I know your sensitivity, but also your knowledge of the subject, but because this choice costs, these choices cost. They mean an increase in appropriations, an increase in permanent staff with appropriate infrastructure, buildings, machinery, equipment, supply cranes. And it seems that the government is not prepared to do this, and you depend solely on the heroism of firefighters, volunteers, local government, who too do not have the money. And they have neither the money nor the means nor the staff to respond to the issues of civil protection. You are, however, choosing as a government to give billions of euros for naval needs - aren't you? - By baptizing them, too, 'anything'. Will you now tell me what the Civil Protection has to do with naval needs? He's got, how doesn't he? This is where you made NATO's Office in Civil Protection. Isn't that right, Mr. Chardale?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u156	It was NATO's office!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u157	And NATO Office you made in Civil Protection, so we can see what the relationship between one and the other is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u158	And finish, Mr. Synergy, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u159	In short, the rampant streams, the unregulated expansion of town plans, the cementing of land, the lack of anti-military works, the absence of modern anti-nuclear protection, and much more is this path that all governments and your own have been serving over time and we have reached that point. We are serving a completely different path of development. And that practically means - and I will close with it - that the earth cannot be a field of profitability and ownership and a source of wealth for the large business groups that want to put their hands on earth. Thus, the social exploitation of the land, of forest ecosystems, can be implemented - in our view - only in the context of a radically different way of producing and organising society, where the earth will actually be socialised. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Synergy. Here, Mr. Chardalia, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u161	Your Honor, you will allow me to tell you that you are wrong and I will explain why. First of all, I would like to make something clear to you and say to Parliament with a great deal of responsibility and responsibility for the issues of civil protection: we are not wasted when it comes to defending human life. All appropriations relating to Civil Protection have been increased for two years since this government has taken responsibility, because it is a key prerequisite for the new government to establish a National Risk Management and Management Mechanism. There is not a single credit code that is not increased, whether it relates to air leased or to the AEGIS programme, which will soon - in the next few days - be in the CSCE and will be in the equipment that it needs at last to be able to respond to the difficult climate change conditions. It is this government which recognises that its priorities do not raise the question of cost-benefit relationship. We have provided ECU 1.7 billion from the first moment, using both European and other resources and other financial protocols, so that the country can finally acquire forty-five years a new 'Cander' and its own helicopters, so that it can secure the means and equipment needed by the Fire Service. You are also wrong with us because you refer to decommissioned vehicles and a decommissioned fleet. We know our fleet is an old man. I remind you that 33% of the fleet was decommissioned. So last year, in cooperation with the physical leadership of the Fire Corps, we decided and contacted the Court of Auditors at every directorate in the firefighting, so that the maintenance issue can be resolved immediately. I can inform you that the decommissioned are in the order of 10% right now. And even firefighters - ask, if you like, and trade unionists - say how much savings this movement was, to secure resources and procedures so that we can have immediate maintenance of vehicles. Do you know how the maintenance was done? Centrally with what that means! So decentralisation and transparency in this part too, so that we can obtain concrete data. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] And so that you don't tell me that I'm avoiding this conversation, the issue of upgrading Sitia's Fire Scale and founding are issues that the perfect design of the Firefighting Department, which you're right to say, collect and evaluate the requests of every genaris. At the moment there is no decision on this matter. Considering the importance of your timely question and in order to be able to answer it, I followed the subject closely and spoke with the natural leadership as well. In any case, however, remember that we will be ready to have this system, which will highlight and prove the real necessity of each region in our country for upgrading services, staircases and installation, creating new scales. It's a difficult exercise. And as you quite rightly say, the question is what will be the criteria. The criteria have nothing to do with the service of anyone else but the three constitutionally established principles that we serve as Civil Protection: human life, human property and the natural environment, the natural wealth of our country. And believe me, in this we won't make any discounts. There will be no excuse. If not now, never! We will work with all those who really know, with all those who have had little or great experience, taking advantage of all the possibilities and tools that the law gives us, so that we can restructure the operational capacity of the Fire Corps as a whole. Because, as you quite rightly say, this is what we owe to people who are fighting every day, to people who fight every day, to people who risk their lives so that our country can become a safe country. We will be here and I am ready at all times to discuss both the individual issues concerning Crete and Sitia, but also throughout the region. You should be aware that we are working on a day-to-day basis with our own concern, just a bet, to be able to correct the bad texts and to be able to leave an absolute reserve in the next generation, in the new generations, in our children, in a safe homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u162	Thank you very much. At the next Conference, I will raise a matter for those who are going to end on time to take a prize, Mr Speciale. We asked two questions in an hour. It can't be done! I didn't do well with men. So let's see women! We move to the fifth under No. 816/31-5-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the Parliamentary Second Thessaloniki by Mera25 Mr. Konstantina Adamos to the Minister of Tourism, on the subject: "Turkish training programs in the profession of the guide". Mrs. Adamou, good evening and good week! You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u163	Good evening, Mr President, and good week! Thank you very much for giving me the floor. Madam Secretary, the question I have to ask you concerns graduates from the University Departments of History and Archaeology and all relevant departments, and their extremely reasonable and fair request and right to regain professional rights for tours, following the follow-up of rapid training courses in the tour profession. Article 14 of Law 710/1977 on tours has been substantially amended by the provisions of Law 4093/2012 and subsequently Law 4111/2013 and Law 4152/2013. According to these amending provisions of the above article, the Ministry of Tourism is required to organise at least three two-month training courses in the profession of the guide for graduates of History and Archaeology and all relevant departments each year. From the start of this program, in 2013 until 2016, a total of twelve rapid training seminars, of which three had been held at the Aristotle University of Thessaloniki, two at the National and Kapodistrian University of Athens, two at the Ionian University, two more at the Aegean University and at the University of Macedonia and one at the University of Peloponnese. Of all this, they graduated four hundred graduated historians - archaeologists now having obtained the guide's permission. However, in 2017 the Ministry of Tourism frozen the training programs for the tour profession, although under Law 4093/2012 it is obliged to carry out, as I said, at least three times a year. In a relevant question you accepted in 2019, you replied that you were not the ones who froze the law. But, today in 2021, two years later, what do you have to answer about this humiliation and indifference of yours on this matter? It should be noted that universities do not have the right to initiate this very accelerated programme procedure, because, as the law provides, this can only be done by signing and adopting the intended decision of the Minister of Tourism. So I ask you: why has it not gone on to reintroduce training seminars since you, the State Secretary and the Minister of Tourism, have taken over? Do you or do you not intend to implement the law, i.e. self-evident and legal, in order to ensure that the seminars are fully restored and the right of historians - archaeologists to work as accredited guides?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u164	Thank you very much. The State Secretary for Tourism will answer Mr Sophia Zacharakis. Mrs. Zacharaki, good evening and good week. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u165	With regard to time, Mr President, as women and respect for the procedures, we can also be very well placed. Although, as an instructor, I may speak in descriptive terms, so stop me anytime. So your question is a special issue, which concerns the issue of tour in Greece in general. It is very important and, you know, it also gives a special and special importance to Greece as a destination with a strong print and history, to archaeological, cultural and many species and special forms of tourism, where I have the honour of having competence. I'm going to talk a little bit in general, and I'm actually going to answer your question like that. Since we are to talk about the tour issue, to say and generally that we are seeing the trend of travellers, our guests to seek, especially after the withdrawal of the trips with the pandemic, an experience very special, that Greece can offer. And it is very important, Mrs Adamou, to report on this all the time, to repeat this difficult year that we want more people to come to Greece and, of course, to the tourists play an excellent role in this regard. It is therefore true that the quality, uniqueness and quality of the tourist industry and, of course, an essential factor in the added value of this experience of tourism. We have as a government and as a ministry we show the active and practical interest in the Greek tour. A leading example that I think can be assessed is the establishment of three new tour schools in Rhodes, Corfu and Crete. It was from my predecessor, Mr. Consola. I came to the Ministry in January 2021, at a juncture that was quite demanding. Since then, I have to tell you that we have also set high targets for our schools, for our tour schools, for the purpose of updating the regulation, as well as for the practice in our other schools, which we have upgraded, Mr President, today, so we have announced it - after 11 years. We are therefore actively expressing our interest in the upgrading of our studies in this part of the tourist industry. On the specific point you are putting, you have already mentioned the law, please state the details, the obligation to carry out these two-month seminars, which actually stopped in 2017 over the previous government. However, since then - and this also answers the substance of the question - I will be specific here in order to be able to give again general information on the subject of the tour schools, and we will also show you our interest in the tour - there have been recourses to justice. On 22 June, the request for cancellation is discussed in the S.H.E. There's an pending court proceedings. You are obviously aware of this after you asked the question. We look forward to the decision of the judiciary to which the Ministry will fully comply. I think I'm very specific in that. I'll come back to my dentistry. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, Mrs. Zacharakis. Mrs. Adamou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u167	Thank you for the answer, Mrs Zacharakis. You referred to the Council of State. You are probably referring to the appeal made by the tour schools against the speedy sections. I don't understand why you spoke quickly. In 2013, a negative decision of the Council of State came about, and it was precisely based on the fact that tour schools are post-secondary schools, so they could not be subject to either higher or secondary education, but were considered a specialty of around IEC type. Of course, with the provisions of the bill you passed in November 2020, we all know how you legalised all these IEKs. However, the Council of State gave a negative opinion, because the rapid seminars also belong to such schools. Let me give you a parentheses. You said about your predecessor, Mr. Consola. I was sure you'd refer to the tour schools, but that's not exactly what we're talking about. Our theme is the fast-track seminars for historians - archaeologists, because you understand that these people have studied four years in Greek universities, very valuable public universities and in departments which are too high in the world ranking, the knowledge they have is very high and the absurdity of the subject is that the historical archaeologists teach in the tour schools you mentioned, while they do not have professional rights for tours. We are talking about absolute irrationality. I would also like to make it clear that the implementation of Law 4093/2012 in no way prevented or prevented the parallel existence of the tour schools. So there is no reasonable reason why the law does not apply. Moreover, these training programmes did not at all affect the state budget, because, firstly, they are carried out at the Greek public universities and, secondly, they pay the tuition fees themselves. In our view, it should be provided free of charge to graduates of history - archaeology, as part of their university training, perhaps after examinations. Historians - archaeologists are the most skilled, as I told you, who have studied at least four years at the expense of the state and their families and are an important but unfortunately extremely unexploited potential in the neural sector of Greek culture and tourism. With the non-implementation of the law you are even more condemning graduates of Greek public universities to unemployment, while they could work as free professionals to make a living. In other words, they ask you for selfishness, asking for the law to be implemented so that people can have a profession and make a living. At the same time, you should think that they will do exactly what you want, they will pay the state funds, the trade fee and all that you have loaded on the free traders. That, however, is what they are asking: at least they have a job and let them bear all these burdens, and above all have a job they will love, because these people are the ones who love archaeological finds, they are the ones who love the archaeological treasures of our country. Unfortunately, however, it is very regrettable that you do not understand that, because this attitude is not only against the historical archaeologists but also against our society in general. Furthermore, let us not forget that Greece is full of cultural and archaeological treasures that are your debt, your Ministry's debt to show up and unfortunately there are not many trained tour guides. With the application of the law, there can be accredited guides in tourist areas that are not so widely known, and so, there will also be increased availability in many parts of Greece. That's why your department should look into it and that. Here, therefore, it is worth noting that in a country such as Greece, where tourists exceed thirty million a year - in the pre-COVID period, it is understood - the guided by the Ministry is only six hundred eighty-one, while there are so many who wish to become, by postgraduate, doctoral, language. So, why don't you apply the law? Why are you blocking two years? Why do you leave these people to your full indifference? The answer is rather simple: To serve the interests of tourist operators, perhaps to support the "black" work, because they are many tours without proper knowledge, due training, due love for what they do and, of course, certification. This is all about your view of tourism. We see the picture you have on tourism, because, if we look here in Athens, the cementing of the Acropolis, where you probably want to get out of the cruise ships and just take a picture and that's what all of our tourism is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Instead of taking advantage again, as you have shown, your Government has a diamond archaeological found in the "Venizelos" metro station in Thessaloniki and to extract the ancients, crumble them and instead of your Ministry to say "no" to it in order to build a new "Popilia" in Thessaloniki, where it will become the attraction of many tourists around the world...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u168	Complete, Mrs. Adamou. What you're saying is out of question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u169	You're right, Mr. President. It's just, it's all related. You only want to defend the interests of the few at the expense of the many and, of course, to the detriment of our cultural heritage. This cultural heritage, however, can be displayed by historians - archaeologists, if you apply the law, if you implement the law, so that these tour training programmes can be implemented for historians - archaeologists and as directly as possible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u170	Thank you, too. Mrs Zacharakis, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u171	Mrs Adamou, I am a State Secretary for Tourism, I am not a State Secretary for Culture, but I accept the comment. But I have to say in contrast to what you say, this. I think there are many unemployed and seasonal workers who will be trained and retrained by the end of 2021. It's twenty thousand of a proposal that we put into the Recovery Fund, because people want to have new skills and find more jobs. Many, the society, is in the thousands of whom we have decided to increase the number of eight hundred fifty in the lives of the Ministry of Tourism's retraining and training programs, because I repeat that we want the world to be retrained in subsidized programs and work. A lot of people are out there. For many, too, to whom you refer, I must say that there is this procedure, which is the case at the moment in the S.H.E. It is the request for cancellation submitted by the graduates of the Historical Archaeological. I guess we're not talking about the same procedure. Let's wait until June 21st. I think the answer is clear. It is a question of satisfying what will be decided. You can also return to your SYRIZA colleagues - there are your colleagues - and say why you stopped the 2016-2017 seminar. They'll answer you. I won't answer you. I didn't stop it. I say that they will implement what the court has decided at the moment. I would like to say, however, about what we are doing on the tour issue, because I am sure you are interested in this, in other than the two-month sessions, what this ministry has done to help the tour schools over the last two years. It's important to say. They're numbers, they're human. They're people who go out to make the tour after two years of study. To repeat, then, for those who may not have listened to us, that the Tour School was reopened in Thessaloniki. Three new Tour Schools were founded and operated in Corfu, Rhodes and Crete. Teachers at the tour schools, teachers, increased from nine people who were in 2017-2018 to fifty-nine in 2020-2021. It is important to improve. It's not the best. We can go even better, we can get better. The learners increased from forty in 2017-2018 to two hundred sixty in 2020-2021 and I repeat what I said before, that my aim is to improve the regulations on tours, but also to improve the issues that have to do with the everyday life of the schools, the everyday life anyway that has to do with infrastructure and with human resources, to be recruited earlier, to be consistent with our obligations to the children who choose to come to our schools. With this, I would like to wish everyone who is out there doing this work, whether they are certified by seminars or certified by our schools, high-level schools, a good tourist season, so that we can all look at the next year with optimism. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u172	Thank you, too. The second question will now be discussed under number 809/28-5-2021 of the SYRIZA MP for the first cycle - Vasilis Kokkalis Vasilis to the Minister for Health, on the subject: "Work exploitation of workers in the light of direct assignments". Mr. Red, good evening, and good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u173	Mr Minister, you are aware of the subject of the question very well. You replied a month ago to a request by a colleague. The "response" of course in introductory terms, because you did not give a concrete and clear answer to the main question, what will be done with workers in storage and cleanliness in the 5th Health Region. I hope that today, Minister, I hope and hope that you will find the courage to give a concrete answer, whether it is positive or negative, to these people. In September 2019, Minister, with your document to the 5th Health Region, most likely in the other health regions, you gave three possibilities to health regions, namely the 5th Health Region, to determine the issues of storage needs, cleanliness and feedingstuffs. The first was fixed-term contracts, the second contract staff and the third through tenders to private companies in accordance with existing legislation. In this document, Minister, because it matters - there are two words: 'in the light of the financial benefit'. Let's keep this. First of all it was the reason, first of all it was the big mistake but the act on your part, which was not based on the law. You have baptized these 'determined time' contracts, knowing very well that the needs of these people, care and cleanliness are not unforeseen, but they are constant and lasting needs. Common sense refers to hospitals and health centres, if care and cleanliness are permanent, permanent and permanent. You yourself, in reply to Mr Lambroulis, have already said that they cover standing and constant needs. However, you have baptized the specific 'determined time' contracts. I inform you, Minister, that this contract is abusive. And we now come 15 days, and these people ask - come a little bit - on 1 July will they return to unemployment, yes or no? What do you intend to do with these people? The answer cannot be third, or yes or no. Of course someone will say, here the Minister mentioned the financial benefit. Did these companies cost less? Let's see. The guardian, fourteen, cost a year 123,600 euros according to payroll, which I will present. The security company cost EUR 561,440, with a variation of about seventy hours. Otherwise, the way of providing work, time and place are exactly the same, i.e. almost the same hours, in the same place, in the same conditions, with the same means. And you choose the assignment to private companies. It was more honest to say that we took advantage of these people because we want private companies more. So, on the one hand, you do not respect the pain of the worker and his anxiety, on the other hand, you spend much more money.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u174	Finish this, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u175	I'm hanging up, Minister. All these people working in security and cleanliness are honestly waiting if they return to unemployment on July 1st or do they not return? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u176	The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Updates without Kontozamani do not take place! Minister, you have three minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u177	Thank you. Mr. Red, you come with this timely question and ask for the change for a situation your party has created. I would remind you that your party three times legislated, amended the relevant provision in order to change the status of hospitals and to create these multiple speeds and types of contracts and industrial relations in terms of cleanliness and care. Allow me to say that by hand you handled this issue of contractors. In fact, the exceptional and urgent needs caused by the coronary pandemic have resulted in several extensions of fixed-term contracts of personnel covering, inter alia, cleaning and feeding needs. These are workers employed in critical areas and under unprecedented health conditions, in response to the increased needs created by the pandemic. The aim of these parallel extensions was not to circumvent national and European rules on competition, as you can see, but to ensure the uninterrupted coverage of needs in critical sectors at a particular cost to the state mechanism. As you know, for fixed-term contracts, it is laid down by law that they have a maximum term of validity of more than that for which the contract is void. For this reason, the relevant provisions provide that the extensions derogate from the provisions of d.d.164/2004 and do not change the type and relationship of work. It was also foreseen that during the pandemic, direct assignments could be made to provide cleaning, disinfection and storage services for up to six months. Therefore, any possible derogation from the procedures and provisions provided for is exceptional and valid for obvious reasons for a limited period in order to cover the critical sectors in the middle of a pandemic. In the case of the 5th Health Region, as you referred to it, no use has been made of this possibility, as you wrongly claim. The 5th RCF, under its number 77/2019, has opened an electronic open tender for the provision of cleaning services to meet the needs of the central service and of the 5th RCF. The tender was completed and the contract was signed with the contracting company. At the same time, the administration of the 5th Health Region, in order to support already employed persons, decided to extend individual employment contracts for workers to cleanliness in health centres until 30 June. With regard to storage, the service with its number 75/2019 procedure opened an invitation to tender for a contractor to take over the health services of 12-month-old health centres, which started on 1 January 2021. Again, the administration decided to extend individual contracts until 30 June in parallel with the contract. Mr President, I shall return to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u178	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Red, you have three minutes at your disposal and I ask you to keep them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u179	Minister, as far as the opposition is concerned, I would remind you that you are not a member of the opposition. You're Minister. The Congressman asks, the Minister answers. Today, a few minutes ago, did you answer the key question? Will these people return to unemployment on 1 July? Yes or no? The same needs that you are baptizing unforeseen and extraordinary for workers in care and cleaning are described as tactics when they are to make a contract with private companies. Unless you're illegal, because the 5th Ministry of Foreign Affairs knew from the outset that these contracts were abusive and, Minister, a contract is abusive when the time that is signed is fixed and lasting, as many extensions as you give. This legislator is looking for if this contract serves permanent and lasting needs, regardless of how Mr. Kontozamanis, Mr. Kokalis, is baptizing the contract. Except that you do not respect the law, you do not treat these people properly. You are not treating them with dignity. And you do not have the courage, Minister, to say 'yes, we will not renew them, we will not extend them, because we choose the preservation and cleanliness - these are the documents that say - to give it to companies at three times more costs'. At least admit it. Is that the social state of the government? Are these the ways of recovering citizens' confidence in the state, this exploitation? At the very last moment, I ask you to put yourself firmly and reluctantly, what is going to happen with these fixed-term contracts. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kokkalis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u180	Thank you, Mr. Red. Mr. Contozamani, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u181	Indeed, Mr Kokalis, our role is to respond to the questions raised by Members of Parliament in the context of parliamentary scrutiny, but it is also important in this regard to remind the House and the world that we are being followed by the events of previous administrations, because there is continuity in the state and people do not think things are happening. I would once again like to stress that the 5th RCD, the 5th Health Region and neither has recourse to direct assignments nor is taking advantage of workers. As of the end of 2019, the service has already opened the relevant storage and cleaning competitions and despite the fact that they have been completed, the service has chosen to extend the workers' contracts until 30 June 2021. This tendering procedure was carried out, for the care of the contractor and of the employees of the VOC, for the period January to June, and for the cleanliness of the contract with the contractor begins on 1 July, although it has been signed with effect from 2 March 2021. In fact, the administration of the 5th Health Region has asked the contractor to recruit the people who already work in the health structures of the 5th Health Service with fixed-term individual contracts. This procedure has also taken place for one reason, which you mentioned at the outset was budgetaryly more favourable, that is, under the law and under no circumstances - I would like to repeat - there has been no exploitation of the workers and no use of the specific possibility you mentioned in relation to the relevant legislation in your question. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, too, Minister. We continue with the third under the number 814/30-5-2021 topical question of the first cycle of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Return of hospitals to normality with problems and suffering for the citizens'. Mr. Poula, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are at a time when pandemic shows signs of slow but steady retreat and there is a reduction in COVID cases in hospitals in the country. This enables hospitals to return to their normal operation and to deal with and accept any incidents outside of COVID. As it has been known in recent years with the pandemic being on the rise and conversion of many hospitals exclusively to COVID hospitals, it has been the government's decision to suspend scheduled surgery, which was not urgent and exceptional, so that there is now a great accumulation and people who want to operate, but also a number of appointments that had not taken place in the previous period. At the same time, there is the need to allow citizens to visit public hospitals, both in the context of prevention and of tackling health problems outside CIVID, so that they do not have to resort to the private sector and to burden their financial situation. You have recently announced the launch of the return plan for public hospitals in their normal operation, which will evolve according to the epidemiological situation. It is a return to normality, which is unfortunately being undermined by the subsistence of hospitals because of the well-known lack of personnel that is afflicting the public health system and the movements of personnel carried out during the pandemic. The characteristic is the case of the "Sisminoglobe" that normally started on newspapers without returning doctors and nurses who had moved to other hospitals because of the coronary, in order to support health units that lifted most pandemic weights. The result is, in particular, that emergencies occur daily, while medical and nursing staff are making superhuman efforts to deal with the situation. Also, regular surgery has started, but, due to subsecution, surgical clinics cannot make a safe on-call program. With the existing staff, they cannot operate more than three surgical rooms when they had to operate at least five. The above difficulties in returning to normality should be added to the fatigue of health workers, which has worked for the entire time of the pandemic, who have provided services without a licence. And I ask you: what stage is the return of hospitals to normal operation and what is your plan to speed up the execution of regular and scheduled surgery that was suspended? And, secondly, when will the movements of personnel carried out in the context of the management of the pandemic be revoked and how do you intend to deal with the fatigue of health personnel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u184	Thank you, Mr. Poula. The question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Mr. Contozamanis, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u185	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poula, you're a doctor, you know better, epidemiological data clearly show a steady improvement in pandemic indicators, a stable retreat of pandemic. We slowly return to normality. Not everything happens from one day to the next. It has to be planned and safely, of course, this return to hospitals under normal conditions. There's a plan and planning. In any case, we must stress this because the pandemic is not over, we must be prepared at all times, not to be reassured, in order to deal with an unfavourable development of the pandemic. So we return to normality and our hospitals remain in direct readiness to deal with the worst scenario. I have personally taken specific initiatives, such as the establishment of a coordinating body to deal with the exceptional conditions of the pandemic in the business centre of the National Direct Aid Centre, with a view to better organising and implementing all the necessary actions under the leadership of the Secretary-General of Health Services, the President of the EKAB and the Chiefs of Health Regionals. Specific priorities have been set for restoring normality, and I will refer to them: Firstly, restart the function of intensive therapy beds to serve non-COVID patient needs. It is worth pointing out once again that, due to the increase we have achieved in intensive beds, we have had very little anticipation, both in cases of COVID, which, of course, are not waiting, and in cases of non-COVID. Secondly, restarting the function of single hospital beds to the former regime, while restarting the function of clinical trials corresponding to the service of patients, clinically converted to pandemic needs in simple-stay clinical COVID. Thirdly, the lifting of the restrictions on surgical operations, so that the surgery that was postponed and could be postponed, because again, I would remind you that no emergency, no emergency, no special surgery, such as oncological surgery, has been postponed - is returning to normal operation. [[At this point the end of the speech bell is ringing by the Deputy Minister.]] Fourthly, lifting the restrictions on the operation of regular external medical services and afternoon hospitals and immediate rescheduling of appointments to all hospitals in the country. Fifthly, the emphasis - and this is very important - on the rehabilitation and treatment of CIVID patients and especially those who have been hospitalized in intensive care units. Already the World Health Organisation has designated ICD, it has categorised the post - COVID syndrome as they say, on how patients who have left the hospital and have had a coronary disease should be monitored. Cooperation in this area of the National Health System with private rehabilitation centres has worked with excellent results and continues for the last patient in need of such services. In addition, the number of intensified and simple care beds required for the treatment of coronary patients is also functioning. The pandemic is in recession. Vaccination progresses rapidly. The immunity wall is close. However, we are, as I have said, particularly careful and under no circumstances should we underestimate the risk of a resurgence. Seven, lifting the ban on sanitary leave, which has kept the ERC up. We all recognise the fatigue of staff. Indeed, the staff need to rest, they need to rest, both in order to get their permissions, but also to be ready if necessary, and we have an unfavourable development. Eighth, reinstatement of personnel who have moved to the organic position and structure. You said, it will be done, but it is done as it should be, gradually and with a plan. Apart from more than doubled beds in intensive care units, another conquest in the middle of the pandemic is the strengthening of the health system in human resources, and this support enables us to return more quickly to normal rates and the National Health System to work better from now on. I shall conclude, Mr President, and apologise for overcoming the time. And I do not understand your criticism of the subsistence of hospitals. Of course, there are still gaps in hospitals, but we traveled a huge route all this time of pandemic. Needs are lasting. We have achieved significant support for both medical and other staff, permanent and subsidiary, more than two and a half thousand permanent posts of medical staff within twenty months of governance and six hundred additional posts, which will be awarded to medical staff only in June. This does not mean, of course, that we have solved all the problems, so I repeat that the situation is a dynamic one. It is, however, an important aid and you must finally admit it. Hospitals return to normality and continue, as during the pandemic, to provide all health services to all our fellow citizens in need. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Andreas Poulas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u187	Minister, once again promises, again vague words. You're not giving solutions. You don't have a plan. And I'm telling you clearly. You haven't prepared any plans for returning to normality. The return of the country's hospitals to normality does not mean that we should go back to a worse situation than they are at the moment. Health workers are indeed exhausted, but you only give them applause and thanks. On substance zero. And what did you do beyond that? Take care and press it and exhaust it, reaching the limits of its endurances. Can I give you an example? He's been taken to me recently. Hospitals of Ioannina, the University and the ‘Hatzikosta’. Do you know what doctors do? They see the emergency. They're in the clinic, they're doing the tests for patients who go in if they have CIVID or non-COVID disease and they have the vaccines on their back. These people there how much longer can they last? Shouldn't a solution be given? Is that possible? And that's not all, there are specialties, the anesthetics you take from Ioannina and take them to either Lefkada or Preveza, because there are no anesthetics there. Are these important issues to be taken when? What's your Undersecretary doing? The State Secretary is not responsible for the situation in the Hospital of Agrinio, only the commander is responsible. Didn't he know about these problems? Has he pointed it out? At some point, shouldn't you see that? Another point I want to raise. As you well know, too many regular surgery has accumulated. Can I have a few numbers? From February to November 2020 three million nine hundred thousands of visits were lost to the emergency services regularly and afternoon in the hospitals of the ERC. Two hundred and fifty-three thousand less hospitalizations were carried out and eight thousand fewer surgical interventions in public hospitals than expected on the basis of the average use of services of the ERC during the two years 2017 to 2019. The reduction also concerned special hospitals as the visits to oncology and psychiatric hospitals decreased by 36.7% and 29.9% respectively. How do you plan to deal with it, all these accumulated medical actions? How do you plan to respond to the health needs of the population while, generally speaking, there is a need for a faster return to normality, as it makes sense, the need to take care of other population health problems that have been pending so many months? We heard the Prime Minister a few days ago throughout this adventure that we lived and live to say that the national system is not necessarily a state system and that we need to find new ways, new possibilities for cooperation with the private sector. What kind of private sector are you talking about? That's where we're going to rely? For the COVID free sector that did not participate in the pandemic? And finally, to close with your visit to my prefecture in Argolida. What can I say? You went, shared credit, shared congratulations, promises, everything in front of the cameras. But cultivating impressions that everything has worked perfectly and that any minor problems that have arisen will be solved in the future, in my opinion, is unacceptable, it is wrong what you are doing. The presentation of a beautiful image shows that you are trying to hide the real picture that currently exists in hospitals and especially in Argolida. For us, for me, the solution is one: a hospital well equipped and has all the conditions. You even talked about tourism, and you said that agents are looking to see them before they go somewhere if there are health structures. Finally, if they see this in Argolida, it won't run on a man. So let's make a new hospital. Argolida's asking for it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u188	Thank you, too. Mr Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u189	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, we have discussed them many times, but you are still going to find out and say 'you have done nothing'. At least bring us a proposal, say 'you should have done that and you did not.' We told you that we also strengthened the staff, we recognise fatigue. What do you want us to do? We had a war, Mr. Poula. All the world, all the staff in the National Health System exaggerated themselves. We didn't say people were sitting. There was a huge battle and everyone did more than they could, and that is why we had these results. And we recognize, we have said, fatigue and exhaustion. As part of the reintroduction to normality, and licenses are given and there is now a new staff in hospitals, which will help operate and decompress the staff. You know it and you better how many people have to get off this whole time and leave because of the particular circumstances. Repeat, we had a war. Now, because you referred to the health structures of your region and to my visit yesterday, let me say that, if you read my statements, we found during the pandemic the weak points of the health system, but also the strong points, because the health system has strong points and the health structures in the region of Argolida have strong points and we should not underestimate that. And, yes, it's a sign for tourism when there's a well-organized kidney unit at Argos Hospital. You're a nephrologist, too. There is the Ophthalmological Clinical Clinic in Nafplio, which could also be a polo attraction for medical tourism or for interventions. There's a very well organized HORL Clinic and all the clinics have fought under adverse conditions. We said that, yes, there must be an integrated plan the next day, there must be no power-sharing, there must be synergy, we must offer new services, not waste our powers. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] And I'm keeping it for a hospital in the area, and I'm glad you're saying it. Other colleagues have said so, and the Member of the county, Mr Andrianos, and local players, have said so, so that we can provide comprehensive health services, not to squander existing resources, and continue to take care of primary, secondary and post-medical services. Care doesn't start at the hospital entrance or stop at the hospital exit. We need to see the whole structure in each area and your county has specific features. But there's also the part on the other side, which is the area of the Kranidi Health Center, the region of Troizinia, and so on. So there is certainly a need for a new design, so that, not only in Argolida but everywhere, we have a rational use of resources and, of course, efficiency and efficiency in the health services provided. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much, Minister. The fourth Question No 803/24-5-2021 will now be discussed in the first cycle of the Member of Parliament, Aetolokarnania, of the Communist Party of Greece, Nikolaos Papanastasis, to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The dangerous situation created by shortcomings in the Centre for Health (C.E.) Catalonia Autolocarnania’. Good evening, Mr. Papastasis. Good week. You've got two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u191	Good evening, Mr. President. Minister, at the beginning of the month that passed us, at the beginning of May in Katouna, Aitolakarnania, a town where its inhabitants are actually living hard, a young girl twenty-nine, just before she gave birth to her child, lost her life and lost her without being given the possibility of some health treatment to her problem. Two years ago in the same area a sixty-year-old lost his life in his son's car, desperate to move him to the Amphichia Health Center, because also in Katouna there was no possibility of aid, but no ambulance carrying him. A common component of all these tragic events is the absolute absence, firstly, of the possibility of immediate medical treatment and, secondly, of the existence of a cross-border infrastructure with an appropriately equipped ambulance. None of these elementary things have been, resulting in lives being lost. The fact that other lives have not been lost is a matter of luck. But, Minister, it is not a matter of luck that the health center, which exists in this town, in the multiday holidays, is closed, that every day it works for eight hours and then "the saver saves himself", that from Friday afternoon it closes until Monday morning, with the inhabitants of the region, mainly the elderly and those who are young children, to live on the weekends of terror. A poisoned waspstick to pinch someone, a snake to bite him in the fields he grows, he won't make it. Not all of this happened. They are the results of specific political choices. The borderline of the Katouna Health Center, which has become a prescribing centre, is a result of the chronic political subscribing and under-financing of public health units. The governments not only of the New Democracy, but also of SYRIZA and PASOK, have enormous responsibilities. They have implemented and continue to implement a policy that cannot, but does not, meet the people's needs as a priority. This was not the case in normal conditions, much more today in the conditions of the coronary pandemic. Of course, we must say that they deserve congratulations to the staff of the Katouna Health Centre, who exaggerates themselves, to keep it open and even to give this little help to the people. The thousands of inhabitants of the wider area of Katouna, the area of the Municipal Unit Medenos, as well as the other villages of the Municipality of Xeromeros, the local districts of Trifos, Kounopina, Aetou, Kompotios, Fortress, are sanitaryly uncovered and they are really angry. It is dangerous that your Government fully accepts this degraded Katouna Health Center and you are literally leading it to closure. Minister, today the Communist Party of Greece asks you a question. The answer, however, you must give it to these tortured people in this region, without misleading constructions, without "will" that cost nothing, without general references to your works. Tell them now what measures and initiatives you will take immediately, without delay, so that permanent full-time and full-time staff can be recruited immediately in all the necessary skills, so that the Katouna Health Centre can finally operate on a 24-hour basis, offering decent and reliable health services to the local residents. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u192	Thank you very much, Mr Papastasis. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Papastasis, primary health care in our country is covered by a multitude of structures. Health centers, regional doctors, multi-powered regional doctors and local doctors make up a puzzle of structures developed throughout the territory, providing primary care services. The operation of these structures is not always 24 hours. In this case it is owned by Katouna Health Center, which operates from Monday to Friday at 7.00 hours -15.00 hours. Recall that under the decision of the Commander of the 6th Health Region, the previous government, the health centre had been suspended due to emergencies and in order to strengthen the on-the-spot check of the Vonicas Health Centre and of the Halkiopoulos Health Centre. It is important to refer to the geographical location of the Katouna Health Centre. Geographically it is within a distance of forty-two kilometers from the General Hospital of Agrinio, thirty-three kilometers from the Vonicas Health Center operating for twenty-four-four hours and nineeen kilometres from the Amphichia Health Center, which also operates for twenty-four hours, where there is also an EKAB sector at the Amphichia Health Center. The inhabitants of Katouna, therefore, can access primary and secondary health care services twenty-four hours a day, three hundred sixty-five days a year at distances covered in no more than thirty minutes. Of course it would be ideal for Katouna Health Center and all centres such as Vonica and Amphilochia to operate. Unfortunately, this is not the case. But that is no reason to create impressions with references to death. And I do not want to refer to this particular incident. The Katouna Health Center, as I said, operates from 7.00 to 15.00, and is currently subject to the planned staffing of doctors in charge of rural services, doctors in service in general medicine, with five regional doctors, where they are five rural doctors. The area is covered at the level of secondary care, as I said, by the General Hospital of Agrinio, which is forty-two kilometers away, and which provides 24/7 and primary health care from Vonicas Health Center and Amphichia Health Center. With regard to the maintenance of the health centre and regional hospitals with medical and other staff, we have four doctors serving in the health centre and in the regional hospitals and eight staff members of staff. In order to strengthen the functioning of the Centre for the Health of Occupational Persons, additional staff shall be recruited. In the 6th Health Department, there is unfortunately no interest in any doctor of general medical expertise, in order to allow for his immediate recruitment and therefore to strengthen the daily operation of the centre and possibly the daily functioning of the center. And since the Vonitsa and Halkiopoulos Health Centres are sufficiently staffed and inform without the aid of more than the doctors of the Katounas Health Center, due to the pandemic and the operation of the vaccination centres, it was necessary that the doctors of the Katouna Health Center should strengthen the official function of the Centre for Health of Astagkos, the Health Centre for Idiotoli, the Mesology Hospital and the Agrinio Hospital. And as you can see - and I conclude, Mr President - the start of the Katounas Health Centre's work today would create serious problems, but it is something that we are considering to see how the vaccination programme in the region will be completed. And to point out that there are thirteen vaccination points and twenty-nine vaccination lines covering the whole population in the Regional Unit. I shall return to my dentistry, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Minister. Here you go, Mr. Papastasis, three minutes for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the expression of the political view, the Government's position on this problem, which has been referred to, is entitled 'cylindism'. You mentioned, in fact, the distance to life from death for the inhabitants of this region. They are people of great age, with difficulty of moving, who really need to measure their lives, when the problem is created, with the kilometres. The fatal - the literal - practices you are responsible for, you are responsible for the Katouna Health Centre, unfortunately, not just in this area. To a lesser or more extent, all health centres in the Prefecture of Eotolokarnania are applicable. And, unfortunately, this cynicism and the maze with which you have previously measured - it is not personal reproach, I understand that it is the expression of the government's policy - so it applies to all the Prefecture of Aetolakarania. In no health center in the Prefecture of Iotalokarnania there are no necessary specialities in medical, nursing, paramedical and auxiliary personnel. There are no drivers in the ambulances or there are no ambulances and there are drivers for their delivery. There is no proper equipment that would enable health centers to operate around the clock, because 24 hours all day long they need incidents when they show up. They don't know working hours and don't. This situation has existed for many years. In our view, the bilingualism of the government and the opportunity to tackle the problem must now be stopped. In 2018, your MP, Mr. Karagunis, reported the enormous shortcomings and problems of the Katouna Health Centre, which, as he said, the people of the region could not take the necessary care and the others and have to move about about twenty-five kilometres to the nearest well-trained health centre in Amphilochia or forty-five kilometres, at the Hospital of Agrinio, what you said today is legitimate. What changed from then on to today? And while the situation is getting worse, your government boasts of progress. The honourable Member is silent on the problems that exist today. Then he saw them. This is bilingualism, which is bilingualism of your government. And since I mentioned Agrinio Hospital and the dramatic elements that have seen the light of publicity about the mortality rate at the ICUs, 100%, whoever was in there was dying. Shall we get into the psychology of the people who introduced and knew this situation? Let's not come in. It's really creepy. And here the government is trying to renounce its responsibilities in all ways. What did your Members of the New Democracy, Mr Salmas and Mr Karaguni, say? They stated that essentially the situation at Agrinio Hospital was the sole responsibility of the hospital commander. In other words, the Members of Parliament, who are New Democracy MPs and also express the government's position, want us to forget that the Agrinio Hospital has been subordinated for years, with the result that it has reached its limits for the last year and a half of the year. When COVID was also a reference hospital, the government - let me speak - was indifferent to the demands of operators, unions, workers themselves at the hospital to take timely measures. Thirdly, were there intubated patients outside the ICU waiting days for their introduction? We don't know about them. They may have lived, according to the government's logic, out of the IM. In Aetolokarnania, these are also known by stones. As much as the government tries to hide, it bears sole responsibility for the state of the public health system in the region. So let your Members stop communicating tricks for partial accountability of responsibilities in bureaucratic problems or for people in charge of posts. You will allow me, Mr President. Your tolerance for a minimum...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u196	And that's what you're closing down with, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u197	Minister, there was today an announcement by the Federation of Hospital Doctors of Greece - you probably know it - by a complaint revealing that the New Democracy MP, Mr. Salmas - is also a doctor - called on his mobile doctor pathologist of the Hospital of Agrinio and threatened him by saying: "I have patients' affairs in my hands. Don't touch me again. You may find yourself involved." Minister, if this is a fact, then in the people's language this is called intimidation, it's called extortion. Simple people call it mob practice. The doctor, the pathologist who serves at the Pathological Clinic of the Agrinio Hospital revealed that the government's policy and its results were completely negative in relation to the help that should be given to the hospital and that these responsibilities are actually recorded and detailed. He publicly refused to accept the targeting of health by MP Salma, who said that the behavior and care of doctors was not for the good of the world. I say again that if these facts are true, then, Minister, we will really expect to see your reactions. I'm coming back to the subject of Katouna. The people of this region are well aware that the only measures the government has taken for them are to strengthen health entrepreneurs. There are such prosperous and prosperous ones in Ietalo-Carnania - they are paralyzed, I would say - and it makes it easier for them to disguise the workers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Papastasis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u199	The question I put to you in the prototype - and I shall end, Mr President - is whether you will really take measures for the safety and health of the inhabitants of the region of Katouna and the region more widely in Itolo-Karnania. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u200	Here, Mr Contozamani, you have the floor for three minutes too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Papanastassis, because you mentioned the people of the region of Katouna, you can be sure that this people recognizes the government, the political leadership of the Ministry of Health, in the 6th Health Region that in very difficult conditions for our country, in pandemic conditions, we have ensured that we strengthen the Katouna Health Centre in order to meet the health requirements of its daily operation. Let me remind you, Mr Papanastassis, that the new additional building of the Katouna Health Centre has been completely renovated for the time being, and on our own days we continue to equip with the appropriate medical equipment at the Katouna Health Centre and, of course, plan - now that the pandemic is ending and as I have mentioned in my answers to other questions - the framework of the new health map that we are shaping, to see how best we can make use of all our infrastructure and primary health care structures and, of course, whether there is the possibility of keeping this centre informed on a 24-hour basis and, furthermore, to attract staff not only to this health centre but to all our structures by means of a web of incentives and a new institutional framework, which concerns the barren areas. I would also like to make a special reference to the staff of the Katouna Health Centre and to the staff responsible for its scientific function, for the efforts they have made and are making to provide high-level health services in the region of Katouna and in the wider area of Itolokarnania. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] I shall close, Mr President, with a word you have said, Mr Colleague, about the Agrinio Hospital. The government during the pandemic strengthened, strengthens and will continue to do so in human resources, material resources and money, the National Health System and all structures. There was a great battle in order to have the fewest possible losses. In this context, we have already announced that with the step by the Quality Assurance Agency - which has already extinguished in many areas, more than ten areas in Greece, in order to reflect the current situation and to propose improvements - we will see the state of the hospital's operation as well. At the moment, because there is a need to restart the smooth operation of the Agrinio Hospital, every citizen of the region should feel safe and confident that high-level health services are provided in this structure and in all structures of the National Health System. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Minister. Finally we have reached the man who will keep the three-minute! I'm very sure of that! So we move on to the sixth under number 811/28-5-2021 a topical question for the second cycle of SYRIZA's MP - the Progressive Alliance of Alexandros (Alekos) Triantafylides to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "The government has also left Thessaloniki sanitary. Neither central operational plan nor new recruitment of medical and nursing personnel’. Mr. Triantafylides, good evening and good week. You have two minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, when on 7 December 2020 I put to your attention the necessary issues relating essentially to the armouring, strengthening and strengthening of the National Health System - which is a very essential aspect of ensuring stable and permanent working relations with regard to the fixed working time contracts that were renewed three, four, five times by the previous government and by your own government in all specialities - you told me - Mr Contozamani, I read from the Minutes - "I am with you, I am entirely matched with your request." That is what you told me on 7 December 2020. The result has not been seen, but the target has come closer in the sense that, first, two very important events have taken place. You, Mr. Kontozamani, brought the Ministry of Health twenty days later, on Christmas Eve, under article 67 of Law 4764, which enabled you to direct appointment to two hundred seventy doctors. You permanently referred to them in Article 67: ‘The doctors who served in 2020 as an ancillary medical staff may, at their request, be appointed in organic posts’. No notice or other procedure! You will ask me: 'We have done well.' You have absolutely done well! The question, however, is within the same constitutional framework - in 103/8 - with the same constitutional legitimacy, which you have appointed the two hundred seventeen doctors, you should see to it that the demands of the sixteen thousand subsidiary and contractors are made, as the WTO currently defines in the National Health System - the WTO notes it - we have forty thousand empty organic posts. We are talking about sixteen thousand people of all specialties, who have actually been baked in the amon to deal with inside and outside the ICU, have given them the battle, we owe them in fact to bend the knee respectably, to kiss their hands. Mr. Contozamani, look at me: we are talking and you are talking about increased moulation. The cleaner who cleaned the toilets, the injured man who took the sick person into his arms to take him to the ICU, the hematologist who made the relevant medical advice with what exact molecules can you confirm them and reward them? But then, from this fact - and someone would tell you and from the Stepping of the House, our spokesman - told you the same legality as you permanently permanentd the two hundred seventy doctors, with the same legality - constitutional and legislative - do it for the sixteen thousand subsidiary and contract staff! The European Court of Justice's catalytic ruling, Section 7, of 11 February - which I am tabling in the Minutes and I very much urge the Members to receive it, so that there is a clear definition of and I only read it: 'So the conversion of the contract of indefinite duration under Article 8(3) of Law 2112/1920 is actually the only measure to effectively deal with the abuse of a fixed term of contract provided for by Greek law. Article 103(8) of the Constitution following this new judgment of the Court of Justice of the 7th Chamber may no longer be used to exclude such conversion.’ [[At this point, the Member, Mr Alexandros Triantafyllidis, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] First of all, you did so, bypassed what you referred to in your reply on 7 December. You said to me: "Mr Triadafylides, how can this be done with some magic wand?" With the same stick that you permanently succumb to the two hundred and seventy, with the same stick to permanentize the sixteen thousand, since you are needed. You told me, I reread from the Minutes: "Condozamanis: The needs are enormous, no-one goes too far, in the National Health System we need them all." "Codozamanis: The necessity and safeguarding of these positions are indeed vital to these health structures, because no one is more than enough. All contract workers will remain in the ESS because they all need it." You told me that on 30 May. She was the third, followed by the fourth, the fifth, and today is the sixth, because I carry the agony of all those people who really want to offer, who really gave their soul and their lives playing crowns - letters. And I told you - look at me, Mr. Kontozamani, it concerns you as an institution, as the head of the health field - the following: They were people sleeping on the chair, because they were afraid that if they returned home, they would stick their husband, their wife, their children. We're talking about these people! And now I come to why you're doing this and I can't understand it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u204	And hang up with this, please, Mr. Triantafylides.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Mr President. So we say: SYRIZA, Alexis Tsipras in the presentation of the National Health System: "SHS permanentisation of all health personnel who gave the battle of the pandemic on the front line." Commitment of the Chief of Officer's Response! I'm filing it in the Minutes. KKE: In an interview with the Koutsoubas, Mr Koutsoubas said: 'A specific amendment to automatic conversion of the designated term into an indefinite period'. MARA25: Mr Varoufakis said: "MERA25 supports contractors who cover fixed positions and their legal request that they cease to be hostages, passing on to contracts of indefinite duration." The Change Movement and Mr Kegeroglu said here: "Behold, the solutions for the immediate integration of the four thousand contractors." And Mr Kegeroglu from KINAL invokes the judgment of the European Court of Justice of 11 February. Is that all these colleagues are? I will invoke more and I want you to look at me, Minister, when I speak to you. Nikitas Kaklamanis, the propathidis, the former Minister of Health stated - and I read "mot à mot": "But this "thank you", says Nikitas Kaklamanis - "... must be accompanied by the implementation of the promise by the government about the permanentization of the four thousand assistant doctors and nurses working today." Did Kaklamani just say so? Maximos Charakopoulos, Member of the New Democracy: "The OAED contractors to health must be made for an indefinite period.". Did only the Maximus Harakopoulos say so? Mr. Kelles in a meeting with you and with the coordination of the children from Larissa he had the same request. Did Kelles just say that? Letter from Giorgos Kotrias, Member of the New Democracy to Vassilis Kikilias: "Convert their contracts in indefinite time." Did only those four say so? Fifth is Mr Stergios Giannakis, Member of the New Democracy - Your Member is! - who says: "Contracts should be converted into an indefinite period." Mr President, the Greek solution to this procedure also said 'yes'. And I say this because you have never heard a SYRIZA Member invoking positive statements by Members of the New Democracy! I do it because I don't care about the "brows". I have ensured the love of these children, of the four thousand, of the sixteen thousand, just to strengthen and shield the National Health System. This love I invite you to share with us the whole House. Of all these who have stayed? Mitsotakis, Kilias and Contozamanis! If you mean it, leave aside the "games", as "we will give increased moleculosis within the year...". What increased molecules? Increased moleculosis does not ensure that all the personnel to be permanentd.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u206	Mr. Triantafylides, you have a dentistry! It's understood!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u207	I expect to see what you're going to say - be careful what you're going to say! - to answer that question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u208	You will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes. However, I do not think it is enough to answer all this!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Triantafylides, what you say is irrelevant to your question. Your question is another!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u210	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u211	What you're saying is irrelevant to your question! Your question refers to Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u212	I'll come to second place...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u213	Oh, second place! Now you've made a manifesto! Why didn't you put them in your question and answer you?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u214	It's all inside, it's all in it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u215	And let me tell you something else. You referred to statements by Members of the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u216	In statements - letters to Mr. Kikilia!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u217	Mr. Triantafylides, you weren't interrupted by the Minister. Please. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u218	Why are you not referring to statements by the Prime Minister himself on this matter and to the fact that the announcement of the four thousand nursing staff with increased modulation has recently been announced, which was a government commitment to keep these people in the National Health System and to meet the great needs that exist? You have also said this before, and I have answered you, and you are indeed using my words, which, of course, apply in any case. However, I would remind you that ancillary staff were a process designed and implemented by your own government of SYRIZA. You did something good, too. It is indeed a useful tool. Why didn't you just get all this staff done from the beginning, and you didn't cover up the gaps? And you see that within this short period - SYRIZA in five and a half years of power did two thousand six hundred recruits of permanent medical staff - two and a half thousand permanent medical staff have been covered in two years of governance by the New Democracy. And you saw, of course, that, where there are need, as you mentioned, to cover the gaps in intensive care units, we make cover for these gaps and there is a design, such as the four thousand - and you have added an increased moleculosis to 2K - in order to meet these needs. We recognize that there are many needs for the National Health System. At the beginning of the pandemic, we had designed two thousand subsidized recruits. We have exceeded ten thousand recruitments in various sectors, because it is not just doctors and nurses, it is paramedical, it is the other staff, it is the administrative, it is all the structures of the National Health System that it needs from these positions. In your dentistry, I will listen to you about Thessaloniki and come back. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u219	Thank you, too, Minister. Mr. Triantafylides, you have three minutes. Please keep the time. I left you very much in your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I have asked you not to continue opposition to the opposition. You're government. SYRIZA moved in the years of commemorative cannibalism, when there was the commitment that five leave and one hired. You say you hired both two and five and ten and twenty thousand, how can you have hired them and the number of permanent employees in the ESS be a thousand six hundred less? One question. Question two, you're talking about proposals. Our Saturday came from the Steering Committee of the special programme of four thousand health workers the proposal to add - an amendment together with the explanatory statement from their lawyers. And this was sent to all parties, Mr. Contozamani. They fight not only for themselves but for the total of sixteen thousand subsidiary and contractors. As you have brought an amendment on Christmas Eve and you have simulated the two hundred seventy doctors, bring an amendment - possibly an amendment - to add their own - to the effect that we need them, they must not be missed, they are prepared to fight, they were cooked in 2017, in 2018. Just answer me something. It doesn't cross my mind. I'm not suggesting increased moleculosis. I propose the automatic conversion of fixed time into indefinite time. The increased moleculosis will only give it to those you hired now, that is, at the time of the pandemic? Is that the other children who worked and worked from 2016 or 2017 or 2018 will you exclude them from increased moleculosis? That's it! I can't even imagine that. If it is done, it will be the relentless old manhood that has ever been, to separate the contracted subsidiary to those who you, your own government, and to those who were hired - did the "crime" - in previous years from Polakis and Xanthos. It's gonna be really awesome. I'm coming to the hospitals in my city. The situation is hopeless. Tragic shortages in personnel, deficiencies in ICUs and medical equipment. "Stavros Niarchos" and the Commission "Greece 2021" and the other institutions which have built and given the "Papanikolaou" the thirty-eight IC. You didn't send them. You took staff from other clinics and transferred them. I'm going to Papanikolaou. Only one - and Mr Avdelas knows it - I stand out: For eight months now, the intensive treatment unit of adult burns housed in the clinical plastic burns and the surgical extremity of the "Papanikolaou". Eight months is closed. Over Athens there is no such unit. Set up and see it and make it and use it. It's the only clinic on burns from Athens and above. At the beginning of November, it closed and has not been opened until today. In "Saint Paul" there is a subsecution of the anaesthetic department. COVID didn't get the C-MAC machine for anaesthetics. Only donation came for three portable respirators. The vaccination center has been on Sundays since June. It's subservient. I come to the Hippocrates. There's a shortage of nursing personnel, waiting for the second CT scanner for the blue building. When will this CT scan be ready? It is also a question. And I close: Minister, take a look at this: this mask gave me a nurse - you remember - in May 2000. Do you love the NSA? Permanently sixteen thousand. It is the least that a party can do, not a government, but the whole political system. All three hundred to bow if they mean it in front of them, since all parties agree, and the half-parliamentary group of New Democracy agrees, the Vice-President, Nikitas Kaklamanis, will agree. And with an act of celebrity, the House said: "We are tempting. All sixteen thousand have - the least we can do - a permanent employment relationship in the EHS you love and we love the country and want to shield it and strengthen it even more. I expect your counterpart to act and not to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u221	Here, Mr. Kontozamani, you have the floor for three minutes to hear about Thessaloniki.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Triantafylides, it is not understandable to me how you have come to the conclusion that the government left Thessaloniki sanitary, that there was no planning, that there were no new staff recruitments and that in general, we did not have the best results in northern Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u223	What happened to November?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u224	Don't interrupt him. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u225	I would like to remind you that, since the beginning of the pandemic, all general hospitals of the 3rd and 4th Health Region in the Regional Unity of Thessaloniki have been set up for the management and hospitalisation of incidents and there has been a clear and specific operational planning since the beginning of the pandemic, with the definition of hospitals "ACHEPA", "Papanikolaou" and "Hippokraion" as reference hospitals and, of course, with the strengthening of structures in intensive care beds. Remind the procedures for the establishment and operation of a Pulmonary Clinic at the Hippocrates Hospital and the operation of this clinic covers an important sanitary gap, as in five hospitals in the city it did not operate a pulmonary department or a clinic. In addition to the apparent overall benefit for patients in the city of Thessaloniki, this clinical function was decisive in the treatment of patients with CIVID. I would remind you that in recent months during the pandemic, the total number of new intensive care units has reached a total of one hundred forty-four, and in the acute phase of pandemic we have also strengthened our strengths both from the private sector and from the Military Hospital. Because you are also referring to your question about "424", which, with its powers, contributed to the successful management of the pandemic. As far as medical, nursing and other staff are concerned, there were an eighty-eighty positions of various branches and specialties through the notices of ASP, a hundred twenty-eight places of nursing in hospitals in Thessaloniki. We have drawn the staff to the attention of the participants of the 2K notice immediately, without going to a new notice, so that we can immediately fill gaps. With regard to the four thousand nurses, which I mentioned a moment ago, are in the process of approving the notice as regular staff, much of which will be channelled to hospitals not only in Thessaloniki, but also in northern Greece. Also, three hundred and thirty-seven recruitments of other ancillary staff from 1-1-2021 to today, various specialties, to meet hospital emergency needs and sixty of a number of specialties in the structures of the primary health care of Thessaloniki. In the intensive care units in Thessaloniki, forty doctors have been appointed, and there are other eleven appointments under way. You are presenting a distorted picture of the health situation in Thessaloniki in order to degrade the abstract successful effort, not of the government, but of all health personnel in dealing with the pandemic and the effort that has been made all this time to strengthen the National Health System, which has given us the opportunity and created a deposit so that we can strengthen it even more and be able to move directly on to the necessary changes needed by the health system in order to meet the needs of all our fellow citizens. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u226	Thank you, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u227	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u228	You have no right, Mr Triantafylides, thank you very much. We move to the seventh under number 818/31-5-2021 topical question of the second question of the Members of the Elias Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Health, on "How to strengthen the functioning of the Cardiosurgeon Clinic at the University General Hospital (P.S.)" Rios for the benefit of the citizens of Elias and Western Greece?’ Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u229	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is a well-known subject, we are talking about the Cardiothoracy Clinic of the University General Hospital in Rio, which was inaugurated with bazaars and branches on February 25, in the presence of Minister Kikilia himself. Since then, all four interventions have been performed in three and a half months of the clinic's operation. The heart surgery clinic - because it is cardiac surgery, I ask about the heart surgery clinic in particular - works only on regular occasions, does not perform emergency interventions, resulting in all the incidents from Elias, Achaia, Ionian Islands, all of which are western Greece, or some cases in Yannina. The clinic was weakened, since the clinician's nursing staff were transferred in the middle of COVID, while it has not been reinforced with specialist medical and nursing personnel and I specifically speak of heart surgeons, anaesthetics and specialist nurses. Today there are two permanent heart surgeons and two auxiliary ones. And even a heart surgeon, director of the ESS, is two years and perhaps a little more seconded to a hospital in Attica with actions initiated by the previous government, while the commander of the 6th HR seems to have declared that he is well seconded to a clinic that has no doctors, does not perform any interventions, despite the fact that it was initiated, as Mr Carvelis said at the moment is not necessary for the operation of the clinic. Unthinkable statement. So we have a lack of operation of the clinic, of which it is often dependent, Mr President, literally the lives of the citizens of Elias and of Western Greece in general. So I ask the Minister, firstly, whether he intends to send new recruits to the University General Hospital's Cardioracy Clinic in Rio to deal with emergency incidents and, secondly, whether he will ensure that he returns to his place of all kinds medical and nursing hospital staff seconded to other hospitals in the hospital or to other hospitals outside Patras. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u230	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. The Deputy Minister for Health will answer Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katrin, thank you for the question, because you are giving me the opportunity to say how proud we are of the Ministry of Health that after four years we have suspended the operation of the Cardiosurgery Clinic of the University Hospital of Patras at the end of February. The clinic from the first day has full, modern medical equipment and infrastructure. It is responsible for the medical staff required. In fact, the first surgery took place the next day of the inauguration. I must remind you that this clinic started its reopening during the pandemic period. Of course, when a clinic starts to operate, it does not reach the maximum of its capacity from day to day, because some things need to be taken beforehand. However, during the three months of its operation, five severe heart surgery has been carried out with complete success and soon there will be possibility of two more surgery a week in the surgery programming. We report that this clinic operated during the pandemic period because the clinic ward from March 17th to April 13th had also been transported by the ORL. Nursing staff, of course, serving in this clinic should be appropriately trained and trained in the new procedures and practices of the clinic. In addition, the clinical team will be supplemented with an experienced cardio-anaesthesiologist to be seconded by another hospital and the weight of the clinical on-site cardio-anaesthesiologist will be borne by the already serving cardio-anaesthesiologist. As far as the emergency incidents of 1 July are concerned, they are to be covered initially with four on-calls a month and gradually twice as high. At this point I would like to remind you that in similar cases in other heart surgery clinics of other hospitals, large university hospitals such as Patras, Heraklion and Larissa at the beginning of their operation, these clinics did not serve any emergency and it took time to keep them informed. And that is what we all realise, for reasons of safety, the completeness of staff training and the adaptation of staff to the conditions of the clinic. Besides, to have a full picture of the range of services provided by the cardio-surgery clinic other than surgery, its activities include the following. It is examined daily in the clinically significant number of patients referred to for heart surgery, the preoperative protocol is thoroughly organised and entered into the clinical trial list for surgery, highly qualified imaging tests are conducted in patients who require cardiac surgery in selected cardiac patients and in emergencies. There is a live assessment of heart surgery patients, i.e. in need of surgery, who are hospitalized at the Regional General Hospital and also at the General Hospital of Patras. In conclusion, as you said yourself, the heart surgery is managed by four doctors with a view to strengthening further staff. We are working on this. The clinic has been served with fifteen nurses and a head of the clinic's ICU. In fact, part of the staff has been removed for at least one month to strengthen the staff of the COVID units. It's returned and supports the operation of the clinic. Medical staff, as I said before, certainly need reinforcement with other specialties, such as the cardioesthesiologist I mentioned. A proclamation procedure is under way to fill a position of intensive cardioanaesthesiologist and it is to be extracted, as another cardioanaesthesiologist has said. And, of course, all those possibilities are being examined in order to have the fullness of the clinic and soon to function safely with the full capacity to produce it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u232	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. Katrin, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are all aware of the tragic incidents that were in need of rapid surgery in the heart surgery, unfortunately they ended up. Indeed, you remember a typical case of a lecturer in Ancient Olympia who, unfortunately, ended up and was the occasion for the issue of the non-operation of the heart surgery clinic at Rios Hospital. Obviously, we all rejoice when they open up clinics that are useful, save lives and the aim of intervention is exactly how I think it is a common place, so it is the essential and proper functioning of a clinic that literally saves lives, will be more effective so that our fellow citizens are not forced - and they are hundreds from Elias and from Achaia and from the Ionian Islands and from western Greece to seek heart surgery in Attica’s hospitals. I agree that there has been a modern infrastructure and funds allocated for equipment. I do not know whether you can state proudly when four months of operation have taken place and Friday is scheduled to become the fifth. And I say this because the staff who exist are disassociated and disassociated when a headmaster is outside the hospital for two years and is in a hospital in Attica and, anyway, nobody understands why this man does not return to his or her organic position, especially now that the clinic is being re-established, managed and strengthened so that the residents of the region are not troubled and say that we have a heart surgery clinic in Patras but eventually we will have to go to Athens, either in the "Oonesio" or in the "Hippocrates" or in the "Evangelism". So here we need to see things on the ground and the truth in the face, Minister. At the moment, the clinic is only keeping an eye on chest surgery. Of course, it would be worth seeing in the past year how many interventions have taken place over the last year, and also how many clinical procedures have taken place. A whole region cannot, in fact, be deprived of the services of a heart surgery clinic. You said you would hire new staff and be seconded and that is certainly encouraging, but the procedures - I think - should be done quickly. I insist that if the ERC officials do believe in the role assigned to them, they should offer their services where the clinic needs to be strengthened and not to be in other positions. That is why, Minister, it would be worth seeing what the result is. Why does the doctor leave one clinic and go to another? What is the result obtained where he goes and, anyway, should not come back and support an effort that you start? I will be allowed by the President, since I am the last to finish the meeting, since you have come to Elias, Minister, from what we learned from the newspapers, because we have not been informed of your visit to the Hospital of Tower, you know very well that we in Elias feel the consequences and the incomplete functioning of the heart surgery clinic, as well as the many problems that have arisen mainly with the incomplete staff of the hospitals in our area. And because I've heard of you instantly calling for positions, for staffing with the resignation and need, critical specialties, you know very well, but you see that there's no interest in it, and these notices are barren. I would therefore like you to let us know whether you will finally adopt the proposal that has been made to change the Elijah area and other areas that have a problem with attracting critical medical expertise, providing additional incentives, because for us it is really the most crucial issue at this time. I combine it with the operation of the Cardio-surgery Clinic at the University Hospital of Ryu. Western Greece must now have a reliable system to deal with all incidents and not accumulate all incidents in Athens. So, by closing, reinforce the heart surgery clinic in Patras with staff. Return the staff where they have to offer the services. And it is a warm request - with half your eleonial origin - to give the hospitals of Elias more weight, because they really suffer from a lack of skilled personnel. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u234	Thank you very much, Mr Catherine. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes, although I think you have answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u235	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Katrin, I will repeat that the cardio-surgery clinic has started operation in the middle of a pandemic, and it is not possible from one day to the next to be fully productive. There were the pandemic movements of clinical and staff inside the hospital. We said that now that the health system is coming back to normality, the hospital comes back and the proper preparation has been made so that it can get on camera and, of course, increase the surgery and deal with the incidents. I agree with you that incidents should not be dealt with in Athens. This is also the role of the large regional university hospitals and the University Hospital of Patras plays this role in the wider region of western Greece. You referred to a doctor from the clinic, who had been seconded to Athens during the time that the clinic was closed. Shouldn't he continue his medical work if he hadn't been subject to the hospital? Now that he's in a hospital in Athens, hasn't he done more surgery? And I'm talking about every distracted doctor, not just that doctor. When a clinic is closed, of course the doctor continues somewhere else, so that he does not lose contact with the subject and improve his skills and abilities in terms of medical expertise. So the heart surgery clinic will be fully operational soon and under a regime, as I said, on duty. As far as the Pyrgos Hospital is concerned, I was clear in my statement to the hospital that it is not enough to declare positions - it is very easy and we will do so, as we will do in February, as we will do now - there is a need for a framework of decisions that will be accompanied by incentives. And it is well known that tower hospital as type II barren. But, as I said, there is a new, different framework of incentives so that doctors can go to the hospitals in the region, that there is a connection between structures with large hospital nodes, such as the University Hospital in Patras, there is a design. We have said that we need a health map, which includes all structures in each area and will interconnect primary, secondary and post-nursity health care so that there is complete service and all these structures are interconnected with a large reference hospital, such as in the area of Western Greece, the Hospital of Patras. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, all right? Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Thank you. Ladies and gentlemen, the topical and urgent debate has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-06-07-S1-commons.u237	With the consent of the House at 20.34 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Tuesday, 8 June 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the agenda distributed.
