ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval of 13-7-2021, PXG's minutes at its meeting of Tuesday 13 July 2021, with regard to the adoption of the draft law as a whole: "Definition of the amendment of its provisions from 31.05.2007 Concession Convention for the Project "Study, Construction, Financing, Operation, Maintenance and Operation of the Central Greek Motorway (E65)" validated by No. Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168), as amended: 1) by Regulation (EC) No 3597/2007 (A' 168), as amended by the Amendment Agreement of 28.11.2013 (Agreement amending the Provisions of the Concession Convention) ratified by the second of Article 2 of the Convention. 4219/2013 ‘Preparation of the Agreements amending the Concession Agreements of major road projects and regulating related issues’ (A'269), 2) by the Agreement of 19.12.2013 ‘Agreement amending the Provisions of 28.11.2013 amending the Concession Contract Provisions’ ratified by Article 44 of the Act. 4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Financial Objectives and Structural Reform Agreement’ (A'176) and (3) with the Amendment Agreement of 11.12.2018 ‘Agreements to the Concession Convention’ ratified by Article 1 of Council Regulation (EC) No 4354/2015 ‘Management of non-performing loans, wage arrangements and other urgent provisions implementing the Agreement on budgetary objectives and structural reforms’ (A' 176). Regulation (EU) No 182/2011 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 16 February 2011 laying down the rules and general principles concerning mechanisms for control by Member States of the Commission's exercise of implementing powers (OJ L 55, 28.2.2011, p. 1).]] Ladies and gentlemen, we are entering the SPECIFIC FEDERATION Discussion on the distributed conclusion of the ‘Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination on the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and subsequently Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information up to 09-07-2019, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, in the performance of his duties’, of the acceptance or not of the proposal to prosecute the former Minister, and of a decision by secret ballot on the Commission's proposal for a prosecuting act, as set out and specified in its statement, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution (in particular the paragraph). 3), 153 pp. (Parliament adopted the legislative resolution) Article 2 and Article 3 and Article 157 of the EEC Treaty. 3126/2003 'Governmental Responsibility' (particularly paragraphs). Article 6, 2 and 3), as applicable. The conclusion will be discussed in accordance with paragraph 3 of Rule 86 of the Constitution and Rule 157 of the Rules of Procedure and with the appropriate application of Rule 137(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, i.e. by means of the procedure for the generalised question, will be general and will refer to the assumption or otherwise of the proposal to prosecute. On procedural matters, in accordance with the unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents of 8 July 2021, I propose that Members should organise themselves in four circles of speakers. The debate will begin with a first circle of six speakers, representing the six parliamentary groups with speaking time for each of the fifteen minutes, without a secondary right. The first will be the Member from the New Democracy Parliamentary Group who has tabled the proposal (Article 91(3), in conjunction with Rule 137(2) of the Rules of Procedure). The second, third and fourth cycles pursuant to Rule 65(5) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure shall be composed of twelve Members, namely, by the New Democracy Parliamentary Group five, by SYRIZA three and one of the others. The Parliamentary Groups have already submitted a list of speakers and the Office has drawn up a single list, in which the Members of the Assembly will alternate with the Members of the House, in order to respect the analogy of the power of the parliamentary groups. The chairmen of the parliamentary groups, as defined in Rule 97 of the Rules of Procedure, may also participate in the debate if they so wish. The speaking time of the Prime Minister and of the Chief of Officerial Representation is up to twenty minutes and up to fifteen minutes for the Presidents of the other parliamentary groups. Parliamentary representatives will be speaking for ten minutes, without the right to a dentist and without prejudice to the limitation laid down in Rule 167(2) of the Rules of Procedure, i.e. after a speech by the President of the Parliamentary Group, they will speak half of the year. The Prime Minister, the Presidents of the Parliamentary Groups and the Ministers, in accordance with the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, are entitled to intervene whenever they so wish (Article 97(4)). Any changes in the order of speaking should take place in exceptional circumstances after the list is drawn up with a letter from the Secretary of the Parliamentary Group to which the Members belong, addressed to the Bureau and subject to the necessary mutual change. Under Rule 157(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, during the debate the House may call upon the one against whom the proposal to prosecute is turned and, if he is not yet a member of the Government, a State Secretary or a Member, to appear before it and to be heard. The second subparagraph of Article 155(6) shall apply mutatis mutandis, that is to say, in any case, that person has the right to submit to the House a memorandum, entered in the minutes. The person against whom the proposal is directed, if he wishes, proposes to speak for thirty minutes, with a relative tolerance. The information we have is that Mr Nikolaos Pappas will appear before the House in order to hear his views. Mr. Pappas can speak after the end of the first cycle at any time. Under the responsibility of the Parliamentary Groups, the maximum number of twenty-three must be respected at the same time in the Chamber, which is distributed by Parliamentary Group as follows: sixty-three from New Democracy, thirty-four from SYRIZA, nine from the Change Movement, six from the Communist Party, four from the Greek Solution, four from Mera25. As decided at the Conference of Presidents from 8 July 2021, the debate will be concluded by 19.00 at the latest, so that immediately after the start of the vote, as I will describe later. At the end of the debate and in accordance with Rule 73 and Rule 157(3) of the Rules of Procedure, the Plenary Assembly shall decide by secret ballot on the proposal from the Committee for the complained act, as determined and specified in its conclusion, in accordance with the provisions of Rule 86 of the Constitution, in particular paragraph 3, 153 of the Rules of Procedure, in particular paragraphs 2, 3, and 157 and Law 3126/2003. The debate will be closed, in accordance with a unanimous decision of the Conference of Presidents, by 19.00 at the latest, and then a secret vote will be taken. I will now add the following to inform your Members of Parliament. On the basis of our list, instead of forty two Members, they will speak thirty-one, because there are parties that have not given any speaker. Obviously they do not want to be involved in the debate. Then, with a tolerance that, as I have said, will have Mr Papapas and the four, finally, rapporteurs, who have fifteen minutes - perhaps a little, so I will show a tolerance so that they can have more time - I think there is no reason to say it now. At 6 p.m. we can be done, with time, in fact, and given that perhaps one or two political leaders will come to speak, because from the others we know they will not come. So in 19.00 I said it because it was the decision of the Conference of Presidents on the grounds of the forty-two speakers and not thirty-one. So the vote can start at 6 p.m., as we have heard. This decision is taken by an absolute majority of the total number of Members, i.e. 50 and one votes, as defined in the Constitution and the Rules of Procedure. Under Rule 155(8) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure, the vote does not involve the one against whom the proposal to prosecute if he is a Member. In order to carry out the secret ballot, you will be distributed a large dossier containing the ballot in which the complained act is to be called upon to prosecute the committee proposal, a white ballot and a smaller file in which the ballot will be placed. I would also like to inform the House here that fellow Members and members of the government who cannot physically participate in the vote either on the basis of a mission abroad or on health grounds, will vote by letters to be sent to the Bureau in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of this House as it stands. In this case, before the vote, their votes will be delivered to the Bureau in the small envelope, which must be closed. This closed file will be enclosed in a larger second file, also closed, which will also state the name of the Member or the member of the Government who will vote by written vote. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. Conference on Writing, 10-6-2021. Finally, the dossiers with the lists will be delivered by accredited colleagues from Members or members of the government who are to vote in accordance with Rule 70a of the Rules of Procedure. The vote will take place with the successive turnout of Members to three groups of a hundred per half an hour. The alphabetical turn of Members will be respected in order to vote. Each team will be here every half an hour to vote. The first group is from Abedelas Apostleos to Ioannis Callianos. I'm not saying the 19:00 that's mentioned here. We said 18:00. The second team is from Kalogannis to Moraitis and the third from Nikolakopoulos Andreas to Psychogios. The Committee of Inquiry will then proceed to the sorting and counting of votes. Is there any objection to these basic issues?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u2	So the report is unanimously adopted. Mr Athanasios (COM). — (GR) Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to begin by congratulating the President-in-Office of the Council on his excellent report.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u3	Ladies and gentlemen, SYRIZA, coming to power in 2015, intended to control the joints of power. The legislative power and the executive had won them with the elections and needed to control judiciary and the media. Mr Papagelopoulos, who is currently being controlled on the judiciary, took the lead in the trial of a number of criminal offences, and Mr Papayannakis took the lead in this respect. At political level, therefore, it is clear that SYRIZA's full responsibility for attempting to control all powers illegally. At criminal level, Mr Papapas or else, as Mr Kalogratsas mentions, 'his levent' and 'his pride' must be evaluated. In 2016, the process for television licences begins. What I will report to you - and it is important - is based on the following elements: in e-mails, e-mails, SMS messages sent by Mr Papapas himself, witnesses, money travels and various other documents. And it matters here, ladies and gentlemen, what I will mention is what we expect from Mr Pappas when the time comes - because he is the first Minister to choose not to come to the preliminary committee to have questions. It has exercised, as is the case for anyone who is controlled by criminal offences, his right to bear a record and basically exercise the right to silence. Because Mr. Kalogeris tabped us a hundred and fifty-four pages of SMS that he had exchanged with Mr. Papa. He chose to testify to us five SMSs, which we will see for themselves support Mr. Poppa's criminal responsibility. These SMSs are on two phones, Mr. Poppa and Mr. Kalogritsa. So I would expect SYRIZA Members to show his phone today and show the dialogues he has changed with Mr. Kalogrisa. For we have all rightly invoked Mr. Kalogritsa as selectively giving SMS, but I did not see anyone coming out and saying: 'After these SMSs, they are also on the phone of Mr. Papa, why does Mr. Poppas not bring them?' So let's go see what's happened in this case. Mr. Papapas on behalf of SYRIZA wanted to check the television scenery and create a channel to which Mr. Kalogritsa would be front and would be 100% controlled by Mr. Pappas to promote SYRIZA's policy. Because Mr. Kalogeritsa did not have the funds he needed, he contacted through the 'CCC', which Mr. Papapas himself arranged. In other words, the Minister who controlled the competition for television licences arranged the meetings of the 'CC' with Mr. Kalogrisa. We have Mr. Kalogritsa, Mr. Tobra, but we have Mr. Papa's SMS. Mr. Hurry's first basic contact with Mr. Kalogerica took place on Mr. Hurry's ship in Porto Heli. That's where the deal was closed. So he sends SMS Mr. Kalogeritsas to Mr. Pappa: "My Nicos, my pleasure and my Levite, since yesterday we talked about it this afternoon. Because at 7 o'clock I'm leaving for Porto Heli, but I didn't understand much, I guess nothing, I need to know something. Take care before I go let me know, 'cause if we don't talk about results, we probably won't. I am sure, in other words, that there will be no result. The days have passed, so bailing doesn't exist. You know..." - Mr. Kalogeritsa says to Mr. Pappa - "... you decide. I say again, if we don't talk about it, it'll be Porto Heli." Nikos Pappas: ‘Ok, we're talking before you leave at 6:00. I'm waiting." So, what does Mr. Tobras say to Porto Heli? That Mr Huri said: 'We don't need to talk about anything, I spoke to the person he should have, the agreement has been closed, we're moving on'. So since they proceeded with the agreement with Mr Papapas at the meeting, we have the second part, that the meeting should be held at the offices of the 'CC' with Mr Lianos. Papa Nicos: "Quick...", message to Mr. Kalogritsa, "Tony Lianos he will be watering at 9.00 am tomorrow at "CC" office. Tomorrow morning'. The Minister for Television Licences sends a message to Mr. Kalogrisa to meet Mr. Lianos, who is supposedly Mr. Papas knew neither "CC" nor anything, and to talk about television licenses five, six days before the competition. Below. Friday before the competition. Mr. Tobras says that Mr. Huri is taking him with Mr. Kalogrisa from the Maximos Mansion, telling him that Mr. Papapas was present and that they are discussing the guarantee letter of 3 million that had to arrive on Monday morning. Look out, Monday morning the letter had to arrive. At the same time, we have a whole series of e-mails, where it seems that the 'CC' wants to fund the project with 3 million euros for television licences and because they couldn't reach this money, they are looking for a way and then discovering that a project will be carried out in Arab countries, where the 'TOXER' would be a subcontractor. From all correspondence it appears that this is a virtual conversation. Project was not available, while ‘CCC’ clearly receives information on licenses, receives the licence guarantee and holds a dialogue within ‘White House’ and ‘White Porscha’. And when is this e-mail of White House and White Porscha? Saturday! Friday there has been a meeting at the Maximos Concert Hall, which is not disputed in any way, concludes that there can be no guarantee letter and the next day we have an e-mail for "White House" and friends and that we have to go in an alternative way. And if all of this does not convince you that Mr. Papapas is involved in the CCC contacts, he will have to convince you that, namely, Sunday nights now and since the money has not yet come, he sends a message to Mr. Kalogritsa to Mr. Poppas: 'Irish buzz'. Grandpa: ‘Issuing?’. Hops: "Without guaranteeing how are we going? Get Summer to pressure London to send the money first, because it's for Greek government." The Minister who controls the television licenses and the competition, in which everyone has to take part, speaks to people who want to license each other for how to reach 3 million in the morning. And you here at SYRIZA, you don't see anything, and you think it's normal! And the money, the $3 million, arrived this morning. We therefore have a whole piece that Mr Papapas, the Minister responsible for television licences to have laid the rules and to be absent, brings Mr. Kalogritsa in touch with 'CC', enters the procedures, speaks with the Houri, meets at the Maximos Mansion, arranges and guarantees to make money. And what's the important thing? On Monday morning a file is filed on "Group Folder". With these SMSs Mr. Poppas knew or did he not know that it is also the 'CC' within the project? Did he know that the files had to have no missing partners and that the statements 'from where?'? So the Minister, ladies and gentlemen, knew that what is being submitted is virtual, that there is another company in it, because he was talking to this company. And it allows the file to be filed properly and lets it be checked "from where you are", for which they are being prosecuted for breach of duty - it has arrived at the audience - those who did the checks "from where you were". Mr. Pappas knew that not even the pastures in Ithaca would be the money. The money would be 'CC'. He knew that 3 million of them were 'CC', as he knew they would come another 25. So what's going on? This is the first phase of Mr Pappas' responsibilities in contact with the 'CCC'. The EUR 20 million must now be paid. The 'CCC', because the current government and Critical Opposition then reacted on what control is for these pastures in Ithaca, retreats. Look out! The ‘CCC’ learned about the name of the company ‘TOXOTIS’ after it had signed the contract. Mr Lianos tells Huri "I'm looking for the name of the company and I don't find it". And they were given 3 million euros! The 'CC' retreats and says: 'We are no longer interested in the project and money has to be found'. Is it the Minister's job for television licenses to find money for him who is a temporary successfulist and has to find the 20 million euros? You can go up to this step here and say that it's in the duties of the Minister who has television licenses to look for money, what will happen? But Mr. Pappas has searched for money and we have two specific statements. Mr Marinakis interviews Mr. Nikos Hatzinikolaou, something that has not been questioned so far. You yourself must tell Mr Pappas: 'Tell him what happened with Mr Marinakis'. And he says Mr. Marinakis: "Mr. Pappas sent me Mr. Kalogritsa..." - even says Mr. Pappas told him that this was also known to the Prime Minister at the time, Mr. Marinakis did not know if that was the case, but Mr. Pappas told him - "and he asked him 20 million euros to participate in the scheme. Mr Marinakis refused.' If you remember, on Mrs Menegaki's show, Mr. Kontominas had left and said: "The Pope sent me his children here and asked me for the channel and I told them that the channel was not sold." But it is not only that Mr Marinakis and Mr Kontomenis say so, but that Mr Papapas - take note of him who had the television licences - sends a message to Mr Kalogris: 'I am waiting for the tel', he says. Nikos Papas to Mr. Kalogrisa, next message: "I spoke. He's calling you tel. Today. Cod asked to see you. He says what we tell him." Whatever we tell him! Not everything you tell him, whatever we tell him, the Kalogerica-Pappas team. Furlemad name. Furlemadis "A" at that time. "Cod" is someone else when we say "A"? It's the Shortmenis. Mr. Pappas, in other words, arranged the date of the Kalogritsa who had to find 20 million euros. Mr. Pappas took care of him, says to him the name of Furlemand and what does he say? He'll do what we tell him. The Minister for Television Licences! He'll do whatever we tell him to get permission. And what does Mr. Kalogratis say about all this? That he was briefing him -- that's just from Mr. Kalogerica's statement, and for the offers that others would make. When they then entered these rooms, he says: "He had told me what an offer others would make, so that they could know to what extent I would have to get to get here to definitely get permission". So they do not retreat, and they also make contact with Mr Artemios to find the money. And Mr. Kalogratis tells us he didn't testify. And that's why you see how careful this majority is. It's not based on the testimony. It is based on what they have come, because these are Mr Pappa's words. The best witness in our case is Mr. Pappas himself! We don't say what Mr. Kalogeritsa said in general and in vague terms. And that's where it refers to meetings with Mr. Artemios, the fact that they tried to find money and that they shared the rates of the channel. If there was such a document, we'd mention it. We have to say that it was said for control. One hundred and fifty-four pages SMS has Mr. Kalogris. If this is where we prosecute, there will be a court council. We'll see what he'll produce. So these people do not retreat. Incidentally, Mr Artemio's behaviour shows the behaviour of a participant in the whole action and should be checked at a later stage. It's not our business. They do not retreat and the guarantee of EUR 3 million is finally deducted. And the second project to create a newspaper begins. Mr. Kalogeritsa said he was asked to give money to means that supported SYRIZA. He reported the radio “Red” and journalists supporting SYRIZA. At that moment, then, they ask him to make a newspaper. At the same time, what's going on? Annulled the television competition, and therefore the $3 million that was cut would be returned back to Mr. Kalogrisa who had put the money. So, they knew Mr. Kalogerica was gonna get $3 million back. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So, what's Mr. Kalogeris doing? At the request of Mr Papapas, he makes the Official Journal 'DOCUMENTO'. There we have this particular feature: while he puts 2 million 900 thousand, as he says, and brings in a series of invoices proving part of the sums given to 'DOCUMENTO' and to journalists, the name 'DOCUMENTO' - he holds it by Mr Vaxevanis, who seems to be just a publisher director. According to Mr. Kalogerica, Mr. Vaxevanis is carrying out orders from Mr. Pappas and, indeed, on financing issues, he also received orders from Mr. Pappas to pay for this amount which I say to you and for which he would keep all the 3 million that were coming back. We have the same amounts at random, as you see here. On the way, Mr. Kalogeritsa comes to a break, just like he tells us. The reason for the break is - it states, among other things - that, on a mandate from Mr. Papa, Mr. Vaxevanis would target spouses of political opponents, Mr. Stournaras, at which time Mrs. Nicholopoulou and the current Prime Minister and at that time the Chief of Officer of the Lt. Marva Grabovski. That is why, ladies and gentlemen, because you are going to go up here, you know that at the time it was working as an executive arm for Mr. Kalogritsa, Mr. Vaxevanis. Now, I guess Mr. Vaxevanis gives you the tone, and you come over here and act like an executive arm for things that you checked and you've put into the file. But let's go see why you're going to say, "That's what Calogrich said. Because Calagritz says so, is that true? Why does the Pope have to do with 'DOCUMENTO'? Apart from the fact that Mr. Kalogrica's departure by e-mail takes place in January, we have three headlines after 'DOCUMENTO', when he actually left - typically a little later - where Mr. Vaxvanis is now released and executes Mr. Poppas's mandate during Mr. Kalogrica and takes out three headlines for Marva. At the same time, what's going on? Because we need to see all the routes. Let me remind you that in the previous preliminary hearing we heard Mr Mionis' sound with Mr. Pappas, who said to Mr. Pappas of Mr. Mionis: "We want information on Marvas. Give us Marva." And if all this doesn't convince you that Mr. Pappas is involved, we'll see for ourselves what he says. Because if it does not have anything to do with 'DOCUMENTO', does it not make sense for DOCUMENTO to have no say? "What about the newspaper?" Says the Pope to the Kalogerica. "Nico, it's all right. Why? Something happened that I should know about?" says comrade Christos. Grandpa: "I hear about closure. Be careful.’ What is Mr Papapas supposed to say to the owner? "They do not belong to us. Did you hear anything about a house? Household and not close, my Nikos. What do you mean by "watch out"? I love you. Comrade Christos". Poppa: "If it closes, be careful". The Minister to the so-called owner. "Nico, we'll shut it down. Who's gonna shut it down? The only ones who can be the journalists. You know what? I would also like to ask what you mean 'notice'. Pappas: 'I mean that we should not be exposed'. It tells him 'to be exposed'. In the 'DOCUMENTO' why should we 'expose', should Mr Pappas not be involved? Is that ever gonna be answered? "He finds that Mitsotakis through Theodorikos has raised a subject. I don't believe it." He's interfering with the owner and he's telling him what he thinks. "Suspicious doubts elsewhere, not me," Kalogericas tells him. "Since you don't believe it, what do you care where he's buzzing? I partyly disciplined and disciplined only our Chief and my companion Pappa. Comrade Christos". "Bravo! So we're going on." So here you do not see that Mr Pappas is linked to the 'DOCUMENTO'. "Continuing" to what? "Watch out" to what? "Don't expose" to what?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u4	Mr. Plori, slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u5	Mr President, since I am not going to talk to you anymore, you understand the delicateness...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u6	I fully understand. You unanimously accepted the suggestion. You've got 15 minutes, you're talking. Slow down.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u7	Yes, yes, I will, Mr. President. I've got one, I'd be done. You see, I've reached the part...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u8	Good. I remind you, why don't you look at the clock.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u9	So you see that Mr. Pappas normally has all control over the newspaper. In fact, ladies and gentlemen, it turns out to be impressive in business times, in other words Mr Kalogritsa, who has put 2,900,000, is leaving. Mr. Vaxevanis makes another company, and by magic he always moves to the other company. That is, like tomorrow, imagine a newspaper that's released to find another instrument with another owner and circulate. The same journalists, the same offices, the same material, the same name! And yes, we do not have a share transfer, but should this relationship not come up somehow? How, so, he came in the next place and took all this? So Mr Pappas intervened in all three stages which I have shown you and he must come and tell us himself. Ladies and gentlemen, you cannot listen to all these SMSs, listen to the voice of Mr Papapas in writing, what you carry and say that there is no problem and that it is within the functions of the Minister and contacts with 'CC' and that the 3 million will come and contacts will be made with Marinaki and Nearmenia and contacts will be made to make 'DOCUMENTO' and the 'DOCUMENTO' will be transferred. Ladies and gentlemen, all these acts constitute an infringement of duty, for which we are calling for criminal prosecution. We are not like you and we are proud, because our findings will be judged by the judiciary, because here we have done a job not as Members of the New Democracy, but by the mandate given to us by Article 86 of the Constitution. You were the school that the prosecutors said as well as Mr. Papaggiopoulou, that is: "Send it, go below". And for bribery, there was evidence to say "Send it to go above". But we want our political opponents to face up to them politically and to come here, Mr Pappas, and to answer what I say to him and not to speak in general and in vague terms about television licences. For what I'm saying, I'm talking about the lesson we've done. Tell me about the SMS, which he doesn't say anything about in his memo. So, donation, we could also claim with the evidence that was available and go downwards. But what's going on? We have been tortured in this part and have indeed seen that the specific money requested - because in order to make the bribery, it is sufficient to ask - it was for the same people to participate in the project. In other words, no money was demanded to get someone else to do the project. The ‘CCC’ would be involved in the project. So since it was her own participation, it can't be a gift product. The same applies to the cases of Mr Kontomenas and Mr Marinakis. In the case of Mr Vaxevani, where we really have a transfer of money and a transfer of an instrument is not part of Mr Pappa's responsibilities, because there was no competition. So we conclude and come here and tell you that criminal proceedings must be instituted - and Mr Pappas himself should ask for this, and I wonder how you will not vote when you see all this - for the violation of duty. The evidence of bribery, we come and say there is. But we as a majority, because we are not criminalising the political life of the country, but we are talking about the elements we have, we come and say that they exist, but they are not at this stage capable of leading to criminal prosecution. You in the SYRIZA - and I conclude, Mr President - were the ones who, with simple testimony, sent political persons who have been acquitted and you are not apologizing. You set the case of Mr Papastavrous - and he came from this in Stepma and spoke to the former Prime Minister - and you pressed for it to be condemned. And now he's acquitted of everything! This is our difference, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. We, the findings we have made, will reach the end. And as to what Alexis Tsipras decided as a political mandate to SYRIZA to control the joints of power, criminal responsibilities will also be attributed to those of the ministers responsible for the criminal offences and responsible for them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u10	The rapporteur from SYRIZA - a Progressive Alliance, Mrs Theodora, is called on in Step, with her relative tolerance, if necessary. Here, Mrs. Jackie, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u11	Ladies and gentlemen, 'And a fruitful conclusion'. So let me read it to you. I open the first page of the finding, in which there is a summary of it, which says on the substance: "The ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, Members of the Committee of Inquiry, state that they are responsible for the following offences: First, the application of the Greek people's vote to a degree of crime, second, the distortion of the truth and the falsification of the evidence to a degree of crime, and third, political incoherence to a degree of misdemeanour". This is, ladies and gentlemen, the real political content of the conclusion that the New Democracy has tabled to the Greek Parliament. What does it say about the substance? In essence, it says that you have referred a former Minister, a close associate of the previous Prime Minister, to a pre-examination committee with no evidence, only on the grounds of a darned contractor who turns from here and there by posing the false witness, as well as saving a "million", to say it simply and populously, or in this case 3 "millions". It was nothing! And what do we see here? Was it reasonable and next that this story would end up with a political pragmatism that was motivated by who? The main porters of the system, the professionals of “SIEMENS” and “NOVARTIS”, the people of the suitcase and cover. Ladies and gentlemen, our country is experiencing unprecedented moments of judicial and political distortion. A month ago, recently, he laughed at the full moon with the exculpatory counsel with which the offshore lawyer was relieved of accumulated charges of corruption. And you have the courage and the former Prime Minister who came out of the ruins of history and a moment ago, from the Step of the House, Mr. Ploris, to turn us down or move us, because we dared to blame him. And, of course, not to mention what we are now living for, the company 'Metsotakis - Grambovski S.A.', which is often making, densely, increases in the share capital of growth and the state of service. How? Selling service and substance by collecting Voltaire’s homes. Ladies and gentlemen, I am really wondering about the mollusc in which you have actually flown the political life of this place, where, in essence, you have received an economy full of funds and, by leaving, you will also get the bucket of the safe. And you, this government, these same people, had the courage to set up a committee of inquiry for Nikos Pappas and even ask for his referral to the judiciary for a crime of a defect because he simply dared and put it in the system that you have been setting up for so many years on the basis of which you are ruling. The truth, of course, is that even your conscience, or to say it better what is left of it, has revolted and withdrawn the felony charge, leaving only one charge to the extent of a misdemeanour to have something to say as well. So, in short, what did you do? You set up an indictment that you neither tolerated and kept something to say to the dozens of scandals burdening your line and space over time, and especially the current scandal, the 'Metsotakis - Grabovski, a company of public interest' scandal. Ladies and gentlemen, the pre-examination committee, which we are debating today, proved to be a paradox of historic joke, with which the New Democracy attempted inappropriately to compensate, firstly, for the tragic management of the coronary pandemic which is mitigating these hours we are calling for today - the experts are talking about twenty thousand cases in a few days' time, in early August - because you have failed to create a block of immunity with vaccines. And now what did you find as a solution? The mandatory vaccination with a vaccine that is in status temporary leave of the entire general population, because you are now starting with health workers, tomorrow you will go to civil servants, to taxis, lawyers, and the whole population. And for what other reason? To cover the unprecedented scandals of "NOVARTIS" and "SIEMENS", which have no precedent in world economic history, and which have been recorded in the hard drive of society as huge economic and political scandals of your protracting, not being destroyed and will never be forgotten and of course not compensated for by ridiculous initiatives such as that of pre-inquiry, which ended even before beginning, due to a lack of even the most basic evidence. I would remind you, Mr Plouri, that you were calling here a charge witness and that at the end of the defense one: Tobras, Nicholas, Lianos, Verkios, Tsadaris. All boomerangs, all against you. Bollock! It took some time to prove the fiasco of the indictment against Nikos Pappas. And since slander is during our ancient Greek tradition of dishonesty decaying, it should already be that those who devoured Nikos Pappas at a human level, that is, extraordinarily, outside politics, seriously consider the possibility of collective public apology. More specifically, the total absence of any evidence of extra-third-party money laundering is evidence that the slander is burdened with the prosecutors and the diligence distinguishes political initiatives. Resurrect the indictment of super-third parties, not because you repented and responded with human leaps to the false question you themselves raised for the guilt of Nikos Pappas, but because you simply feared your further casserole, your further implosion. That's why you withdrew the indictment. By completing your unthinkable slandering behaviour you have kept a minimum remnant of charge, that is, for the same reason, to escape the absolute slander and absolute shame and shame. You initially gave Kalogerica the opportunity to turn the House into a civil dispute resolution court, a parliamentary institution of increased prestige, such as the pre-review committee, and you have been working for two months on the winter Greek society, which has endured ten years of bankruptcy and two years of incarceration, with foolish gossip and meek slander. In this world you are mocking him, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, with scandals for which there are not even signs of guilt. It was evident from the outset and proved out of the procedure that Nikos Papapas had no relationship with the sum of 3 million, which he proved to be enthusiastic by Kalogris, which the Bank of Greece confirmed in the most formal way. In particular, with the special control report of the Bank of Greece, the following words emerge: "After the return of this guarantee letter and the subsequent release of the amount, this was transferred to the sole shareholder of Ioannis - Vladimir Kalogrica. John - Vladimir Kalogeritsa transferred this amount to the "TOXOTIS S.A.", which then gradually used it to meet needs arising from its productive circuit. Moreover, the above finding is supported by the fact that on 19 January 2017, i.e. the same day of the repayment of the amount to ‘Joannis - Vladimir Kalogrica’, this company made a reduction in its share capital of EUR 3 million with a cash return to its sole shareholder Ioannis - Vladimir Kalogrica for the cancellation of 3 million common nominal shares, with a nominal value of EUR 3 million each. From the above, it is undeniably clear that the sum of EUR 3 million at issue is absolutely not related to the amount that businessman Christos Kalogratis initially claimed - and that is why we are here today - that he paid for the publication of the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO'. And Christos Kalogericas himself is being tested as a witness in the pre-review committee in the most emphatic way he refused any form of money and confirmed that he never co-existd in any way because the money simply kept it for himself. And the rest of the category that the prosecutors kept in order to reassure your public image, i.e. the breach of duty as a category, is an infringement of which the contents are listed in general and in vaguely in your findings, precisely because there is no basis for haunting it. In particular, it proved that the conditions for the tender were laid down by Law No.4339/2015, which was adopted on 29-10-2015 and specified by No. A public tender notice issued on 17-5-2016, i.e. in advance of the meeting of the representatives of the Houri Group with businessman Christos Kalogrisa, which, as shown by the submissions to the Committee of Witnesses Kalogrisa, Tobra and Lianou, took place at the end of August 2016. In fact, the terms of the tender were those of the kind that Kalogricas seemed to have met at the outset that he did not fulfil the conditions for his participation in it, which proves that Nikos Papapas did not breach his duties, since in this case he would have shaped the terms of the tender in such a way that the above-mentioned operator would have met his conditions. Furthermore, it has been proved that Mr Papapas has never made any modifications to the tender in question so that Christos Kalogricas fulfils the conditions of his participation in the tender. Finally, the fact that, in the end, the operator in question did not obtain the licence in question but, on 26-9-2016, it was declared to be inferior to the tendering procedure demonstrates that the conditions of the tendering procedure, which the former Minister himself himself had defined not only but also maintained throughout his course, were incomprehensible, so that the good, honest and clean exercise of the service duties on his part cannot be cast into doubt. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, then, abstractly and generally throw mud on your political opponent by accusing him of conduct which is subject to simple political control and not in any legal crisis, and most of all in criminal crisis. Criminalisation of political choices is a cultural event and proof of the collapse of institutions. Under the pretext of penal control we remove from the democratically legitimised politician the right to take political decisions in accordance with the Constitution, the legal order and the laws. This is proof of a profound political crisis. This is a pretext, in order to weaken politics, namely public service, by threatening public intervention for purely political decisions. Whenever this happened in the political life of our country, firstly, the collapse of the self-appointed prosecutors was certified and then their overwhelming political defeat followed. The closest historical example I can remember at the moment is the 'broken '89', which was sealed by the catastrophic, deafening collapse of the homonymous prosecutors. So the most important historical and cultural conclusion that can be drawn is that political differences criminalise authoritarian regimes just before their collapse. We therefore have a historical deja vu in relation to the previous one and it will also be a deja vu for political development. False accusations, slanders and gross political practices do not guarantee the long-term day-to-day regimes, but on the contrary cause their collapse with strong social disapproval and political extremism. The political and cultural situation that I have referred to is unfortunately not an unfortunate period of this government, it is not a misfortune that has been done with lightness and urgency, but it is a representative expression of the authoritarian democracy that is now ruling the country, which will soon collapse. Behind all this, it is obvious that the government's self-interest is getting married to the vengeance of the "fashioned" Mindistiarchs, who for the first time in modern history felt public control over their absolute and undemocratic sovereignty. For the first time, after twenty-five years, they had to deal with each Greek citizen and had to respond directly to their public obligations towards the State. That's why Nikos Pappas and the SYRIZA government were targeted and are still aiming at an unscrupulous attack, with slander, with slanderings, with sloppy lies and efficacious accusations. The one who filled the public funds in periods of emergency financial crisis with EUR 250 million as a whole in response to the public tender procedure for the licensing of television channels instead of for the public praise today faces good accusations and a funny indictment of breach of duty. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I would like to close my speech with a small illustration to you. You still have some time to throw this finding at the political ball of history. You do not need to reach this low level by following your President and the few people who are pushing you into this political catastrophe. Your followers, your voters, the honorable worker of a conservative average citizen is much better than what you are presenting today as representatives of the Greek Parliament. And don't tolerate that. Stand up to the circumstances and become those political persons that your party deserves. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to close my introduction with a phrase that I just want you to remember from me. At Voltaire's house you shouldn't even talk about Nikos Pappa!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u12	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour to announce to the House that the Minister of Justice, the Vice-President of the Government, the Minister of Finance, Development and Investment, Citizen Protection, National Defence, Education and Religious Affairs, Labour and Social Affairs, Health, Home Affairs, Rural Development and Food, State, Deputy Minister of Finance, Foreign and Home Affairs, and the Deputy Minister of Culture and Sport have tabled a draft law on 13-7-2021: ‘Inorganic Law of the Court of Auditors and other related regulations’. It shall be referred to the competent Standing Committee. Thank you to Mrs Jackson and to keep time. Mr Vassilis Kegeroglu has the floor from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. I don't know, Mrs. Jackrey, what they should do and who they shouldn't be talking about at Voltaire's house. But I know very well that the people who joined the co-operators of the 'birth '89', this SYRIZA, cannot speak of Andreas Papandreou. They can't talk about setting up that period. It is really the lessons learned in the course of this place that, if we do not read them objectively and impartially, rather than examples to avoid, are unfortunately motivated to repeat them and, of course, if there is no strong political will at last to strengthen the institutions of transparency, to strengthen the institutions of balance between all kinds of powers that tend to impose on each other their will. The question of free, objective and impartial information is crucial and a component of the democratic culture. It belongs to the core of citizens' rights. The media with huge technological progress now have a catalytic role in the formation of public opinion and thus justify their traditional designation as 'fourth power', but their independence in relation to executive power - and not just - remains a demand. In free and dictatorial regimes independence does not exist as a concept, control of instruments is complete. In democratic states, however, the independence of the media is often in the dark grey zone, with the executive attempting to control information. Our country has experienced both experiences: both the experience of dictatorship and the work of bias and the lack of pluralism to play and play again. Yesterday with SYRIZA's plan to control the television field, the well-known law, the setting up of the competition, the meditation and manipulation of procedures. Today, the continuation with the New Democracy Government, which, instead of on the occasion of the pandemic, ensures that citizens are informed in a timely manner with trust, ensures the sustainability of the instruments and the maintenance of jobs on the basis of objective financing criteria and conditions of transparency, sought to depend on them. The Change Movement has tabled concrete proposals for the objective and pluralist information for citizens to support, independence and emancipation of media. The government insisted on its purpose and sought, instead of independence and emancipation, the means of dependency and subjection. It is true that many have achieved this and today a system with many means of participating in it, which has gained the confidence of the government, but unfortunately has lost much of the confidence of the citizens. The inability to convince citizens of the absolute need for vaccination is not only due to the government's - behind the government - and its administrative failure, to the contradictory and wrong messages sent by many politicians who represent scientists or scientists who represent politicians, but also to the overall loss of confidence that has been caused. It is now clear that SYRIZA and New Democracy have the same perception of the role of media and their relationship with executive power, they have the same purpose in manipulating the information, but they seek it with different methodology and instruments. It is what the people say 'the two sides of the same currency'. I will not further analyse the drowning of pluralism and the implosion of pluralism in the information. I just want to remind you of the EPP report which has been discussed in the Committee on Institutions and Transparency, where the situation is reflected. The Government has deliberately chosen the strong visibility of the New Democracy - SYRIZA, which now reaches 93%, because it is obvious that the political failure of the Anti-Population Officer is a good thing. The third party is prevented in many ways from projecting and communicating with the citizens, especially during the pandemic period. For the smaller parties, no reason. It is characteristic that the report by Journalists Without Borders published this year in the European Parliament lists our country, from the point of view of freedom of the press, five more places than last year, in the seventeenth place around the world, a very humiliating position for Greece. It was really painful and the situation that we experienced in committee, when the President of the National Broadcasting Council, who came in a sincere but truly worrying way, said he did not have the means, technical and staff, to exercise the PSE's powers of control and control. Today's sitting is related to the above, but it is intended to accept or not the proposal to prosecute former Minister Nikolaos Papapas and to take a decision on the Commission's proposal. I would remind you that the setting-up and operation of the Special Committee was a necessary procedural step in the search and further referral of the case to the competent courts, and we therefore consider it unacceptable to conclude the procedure. The majority in her attitude raises many questions. It didn't help reveal all aspects of the truth. The New Democracy must - and it has not given - explain why it has led to such a decision, with which, of course, SYRIZA has rushed to agree. Was there any purpose? Underground routes? What exactly happened? Ladies and gentlemen, the committee's work until the closure led to a full political confirmation of the views that the PASOK had expressed in the critical months of 2016, on the purposes and methods of the SYRIZA Government - ANEL to check the information. The complaints we made publicly, for the practical abuse of power, set up, meddling and abuse of the competition, by manipulating its procedures, to create "SYRIZA Channel" in the name of trusted Christos Kalogrisa and "front", as he self-described. The approach at that time has been clear from the outset, with the project projection for only four television licences. This provision was not random, since it was subsequently demonstrated that it could be eight. It was a strategic option, on the one hand, to be better controlled, as they believed, the television field and, on the other, to result from the competition a large number of owners who, until then, operated television channels, who would be unlicensed and would be easy to receive proposals from the holder of the 'SYRIZA Channel' licence for cooperation. One would put the license in any way I got, and the other would. It was the second shot after the Huri left. In all this, the role of the former Minister, according to the testimony and evidence provided, was central and decisive. The testimonies and evidence, documents, SMS messages, e-mails and others show that Mr. Papapas was the head of mind and the central coordinator, in order for SYRIZA to acquire control over an average, original television station and then newspaper. The institutional role of the Minister of State has forced the transparency of the tender, the purity of competition and the law of the results to be safeguarded. Unfortunately, he didn't do it and not just. According to the testimonies and evidence, while he was legally designated to be the guarantor and depositary of the competitive process, at the same time he was the man who manipulated the contest and guided and directed one of the bidders. He instructed Christos Kalogericas to contact the Houri family to finance the creation of the channel, to ensure the guarantee letter, a large number of interventions, which were in fact guaranteed by a luxurious path of money by their companies of interest to the company "TOXOTIS". The contract on the basis of which the money was transferred was viewed and described as virtual by Mr Kalogritsa and other witnesses, and in any case, it was not implemented with regard to its alleged object and is a matter of dispute between both sides. The Minister of State, according to the information and the statements, directed Mr. Kalogrisa to the tender, even indicated the amount of the offer he would put, informing him of others' bids. In the first phase the project achieved its objective, and it was indeed Mr Kalogrisas, one of the four licensed, the permission for the "SYRIZA Channel". After the Huri family withdrew from the funding scheme and failed the original plan, the B loan project was launched with Marinaki or in cooperation with Nearmenia and others, who had a station but were not licensed. When this was not successful and after the decision of the Council of State on unconstitutionality, the guarantee was repaid and the 3 million at issue, according to the statements and evidence, after receiving them in some way a company of interests of the main witness, directed the creation of the newspaper "DOCUMENTO", with owner and publisher then Ioannis Vladimir Kalogiritsa, who was proposed to come and did not want SYRIZA to bring him, and director of today's editor, Vaxvani. The perseverance of Mr Pappas to continue with the process and, after the failure of the initial plan, is indicative of the feasibility and intention and, on the other hand, of the firm pursuit of himself and the government to control, influence and ultimately manipulate the landscape of information, rather than exalt it, ensuring pluralism, objectivity and pluralism. There are, therefore, very serious indications to the extent to which it relates to the offence of a forced and continuing duty violation. For the full conclusion of the case and for the performance of any responsibilities or non-response to continue the procedures provided for in the Constitution and the Law. It is imperative that the process be completed. On the second offense, Christos Kalogericas, despite his testimonial testimony and statements, did not provide the evidence he promised both solid and undoubted evidence of the transfer of funds or other material benefits to the Minister or a third person acting on his behalf. It is obvious after this conversion of the main witness that or never had the information that he had promised to testify or himself decided not to proceed with their statement or to submit them later. In the second case, there is no way that a witness's agreement with the SYRIZA group has been reached, with which Mr Kalogritsa himself has said that he has always maintained close relations. The sense of the truth that is created by this development, of course, the violent ending, the unexplained interruption of the work of the committee in many cases cancel the institutional mandate of the committee and Parliament itself and the mandate of the House to settle the matter. As a movement of change, in addition to continuing the procedure for the offence of a forced and consequent breach of duty, we also propose the finding, the information and all the information of the committee to be read to the competent prosecutors for the proper connection with existing criminal proceedings and, secondly, the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority for Criminal Activities, for its own powers. At this point I would like to point out that, if there is no strong political will for the necessary institutional measures to permanently strengthen the institutions of transparency and balance of power of every kind, these phenomena will continue. PASOK and the Change Movement are fully in favour of pluralism, pluralism in the media, as well as transparency in public life, especially after the many examples that our country has to evaluate. We took the lead in the creation of the Independent Authority of the PSE in 1989, in its constitutionalisation in 2001, and in its reopening in 2017. We have established transparency, the financial prosecutors, the Anti-Frauding Authority Black Money and many other reforms. New Democracy and SYRIZA, as governments, instead of following the road that we opened and building on the rich reform work, as imposed by the Treaties, you have chosen by different methods and ways each control of their institutions and functions, as well as limiting the right of citizens to free and impartial information. Your general divident confrontation not only cannot hide your identity, but it reveals your competition for who's worse. We will insist on another path, pluralism, pluralism and transparency everywhere and ultimately democracy without asterisks and be sure - and it comes - that together with the citizens we will win the fight for a modern Greece, for a society in a path forward. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u14	Me too, Mr. Kegeroglu. We will proceed as follows. He will now speak as a representative of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr. Delis. Immediately after having asked for the floor, as a parliamentary representative, he is the only one declared by the Greek Solution - Mr. Villardos. I don't know if he makes a full speech or says anything else. Immediately after Mr. Villardo, according to his wish, Mr. Pappas will take the floor. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u15	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, when the fourth revision of the current 1975 Constitution was passed by this House in November 2019, our party, the JRC, proposed a radical change in Article 86 of this Constitution in order to remove all obstacles in order to prosecute the ministers, such as all citizens and not to prosecute them by the will of the parliamentary, government majority. Finally, however, by a joint decision of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement, a fragmentary and clearly limited constitutional regulation was chosen, which, although it has abolished - and correctly abolished - the special limitation of the ministerial offences that have been in force for years, has nonetheless maintained the basic core of Article 86, namely, to have, in short, the government majority, this decisive competence not only for the political, but even for the criminal part of a case, a state of ministerial responsibility. To have the parliamentary majority and judicial powers, in other words. This joint choice of the urban parties of the New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement is not random. It offers two incomprehensible advantages to urban power parties. One is the continuation of a more refined but certainly special criminal treatment of any ministerial offences, and the other is of course the possibility that this arrangement gives the government-led majority to create fancy scenes with most of the disorientative political spectacles, involving ministers with various decisions. How many of these we haven't seen in recent years! How many and how many were the pre-reviewing committees or committees that were set up, offered a lot of show, and at the end, they ended up covering up what they were supposed to be exploring. And the reason is one and simple: As long as the deepest causes of the interlocutory of the various urban parties are not touched with the various economic and business interests, all these committees of fate will end up there, covering and culminating in responsibilities. That is why we wondered the day that this committee of inquiry decided three to four months ago, last March, on how urgent it was at this juncture that the committee set up for the people and its problems was. If, however, it was not urgent and necessary for the people to operate such a committee, it was for the government itself, it was for the civil system itself, since such committees are considered absolutely necessary to hide the terrible reality and maintain a disorientative bipolar confrontation. Thus, not even the New Democracy allowed the opportunity of disorientation to go lost. It is only here that the choice of the government majority of the New Democracy to set up a Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out a preliminary examination of the investigation of crimes that may have been committed by the former Minister of State and then of Digital Policy Mr Nikolaos Papapas in the performance of his duties, i.e. to set up a special pre-examination panel on criminal matters for the SYRIZA Pope case. What needs to be distracted from the government and how it is dealing with the whole of this time in an unacceptable way is a pandemic showing its teeth again threateningly. Because it is unacceptable for the New Democracy Government and the Prime Minister to try again, by means of a compulsory vaccination this time. It is unacceptable for the people to move the main responsibility for the development of the pandemic and for the delays in the rates of vaccination, but also to create conditions of social automation in order to hide their own criminal responsibilities. The real causes, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, those that undermine the necessary and rapid vaccination of the people, must be sought in your own government's shortcomings and recurrings around the necessary protection measures, in your contradictory communications on vaccination, delays and competitions, of course, of monopolies and states, in your senses of recompense, which your Government has produced and cultivated in the past period, in the end, in the fact that the treatment of pandemic is of individual and not social state responsibility. All this is what leaves vital space on the virus, and all that eventually fuels both fear and irrationality. But let's go back to today's subject. In fact, all these two months that this special pre-review committee of Parliament has worked, is what proved to be the case? It turned out that its recommendation and function served the pursuits, not only of the New Democracy, but also of SYRIZA. It is not just that each of you put forward fragmentary elements, those which served the pursuits of each side, either of the New Democracy or of SYRIZA, to avoid going into the substance of the problem of course, but it is mainly that you have used the pre-review procedure to maintain your disorientative, bipolar confrontation, to cover your responsibilities for a miserable, truly disgusting - reality that still prevailed and still prevails in the media today. That is exactly why you have also made progress in the joint rapid completion of the work of the committee, and with a conclusion that is completely inconsistent with the great noise that was accompanied by the committee. This explains why, from the outset, you clearly rejected the point of view, the proposal made by the JRC, which said that an examination committee could be set up on the same subject, in order to investigate all aspects of the case thoroughly, and the responsibilities arising from political persons and former ministers. The present - and this is the end of your committee - reveals that all you have ever sought was a communiqué diversion from the serious problems facing the people and nothing more substantial. And if something was confirmed on the subject we are discussing is the assessments of the Communist Party of Greece. Why did SYRIZA do so then? But what all the governments and the New Democracy and former PASOK have done and what all the governments have done. SYRIZA, with political and other interventions, attempted to control the information, exploiting both state ERT and private channels belonging to business groups. SYRIZA then attempted a redistribution of the pie between old and new business interests, which at the time had shown a particularly intense interest in infiltrating the information sector and replacing those business interests that were affected by the capitalist economic crisis. He attempted a closet in this liquid landscape then to create an even more favourable environment in the media for the policy of the then-government government of SYRIZA. And Nikos Pappas, as a competent minister at that time, had taken an important role in this whole operation, as he showed particular interest in the successful outcome of the effort to cooperate between the Kalogrica family and the Huri family to obtain a television licence. He also had contact with other interested, old and new entrepreneurs. It was a business that ultimately served SYRIZA's political goals and the manipulation of the people and certainly had nothing to do with either upgrading the information or reliance on the control of economic interests. After all, if it is something that unites you all, that is the most essential thing, to accept and to say that the information, the channels, the frequencies will be of the great business interests. But that's exactly what you know. This is the real root of evil. And not only will all this belong to the big businessmen, you agree, but the governments, like New Democracy now, come to the pandemic to give them the entire annual dose that they owe to the state. How much is that dose? 3.5m euros, please. And then you have the courage to tell the people every time he asks for something for his children or for his health, about how bad our country's finances are. In short, this mid-term authoritarianism that accompanies the repression, this whole mononomialism of the dominant political ideology, this whole midtermic brainwashing and provocative manipulation the people pays all this from above and from their pocket. Not to talk about the systematic exclusion of parties such as the JRC, which are permanently and firmly not represented in the channels, according to the official figures of the National Broadcasting Council and even regardless of who is in the government. For all of this today you are all co-responsible together, and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. So how do you then talk about the substance of the information issue? In conclusion, from the work of this committee, the pre-examination process, the direct involvement and the political responsibilities of the then responsible Minister of SYRIZA Nikos Pappas were shown. However, there were no adequate and adequate evidence of criminal offences being committed. And that is what leads the JRC to choose 'the present' in today's vote. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u16	Mr Villard has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u17	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will begin by the fact that in the first two years of the New Democracy Government, with the country walking from bad to worse, two Committees of Inquiry have been set up with the subject of Ministers of SYRIZA, the first for Mr Papagelopoulos instead of "NOVARTIS" and more generally for the issue of the atrocious scandal of medicines, where a lot of money has been lost by the Greeks, and the second for a secondary issue, at least according to his conclusion. On the contrary, the only committee of inquiry, which we have proposed, has not been carried out to investigate the tradition of Macedonia, a betrayal against many, since it is a loss of national sovereignty over a period of time, apart from the great financial damage caused to Macedonian entrepreneurs. In our view it was in exchange for the extension of the EUR 95 billion which ended in 2018 and which it was impossible for Greece to repay, while we wonder why the New Democracy Government accepted it, since it claims it did not agree. According to her, she did not react to treason, allegedly because the state has continued, despite the fact that Skopje has been in breach of the agreed arrangements too many times. If there is such hypocrisy on her part, and now she does not even have the courage to bring to Parliament the three memoranda of cooperation with Skopje, apparently fearing the reactions of her Macedonian MPs. In any case, however, the Members of Parliament are voting for everything, as we have seen two years now, on memoranda, but only for their parliamentary privileges, not for Greece, let alone for the Greeks, are completely indifferent. It's a sad decay. I'm afraid so. In addition, the Government refuses, in essence, to answer SYRIZA's question about the money that New Democracy owes, with some 350 million, which is increased by almost 30 million, every year and that the Minister for Development has said that it is unable to pay. But why is he unable to pay for it? Couldn't he even testify to a plan to repay them over a period of time, through grants received from the public as a party, over 5 million per year, as well as withholding a percentage of parliamentary, European, ministerial and prime pay? Isn't that what other citizens demand? Do the parties have legal immunity? Can they owe what they want and pay whenever they want? The tolerance of the banks, how is it justified? The Committee of Inquiry was set up in the context of a preliminary examination. It concerns the indictment of the Attorney-General of Athens in 2020, the company "TOXOTIS S.A.", the interests of Mr. Christos Kalogrisa's family. The indictment was against the legitimate representatives of two companies of the Arab businessmen Huri family, the ‘CCC’ based in Maroussi and the ‘AL GHANDI’ based in Dubai. The Special Parliamentary Committee was set up with a view to carrying out a preliminary examination of the investigation of offences, which may have been carried out by the former Minister, Nikolaos Papapas, in the performance of his duties, because in the case-file there were elements relating to persons and offences, Article 86(1) of the Constitution, which regulates the conditions governing the search for criminal ministerial responsibility. That case-file was subsequently forwarded by the Athletic Prosecutor of Athens to Parliament, in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86(1) and (2) of the Constitution. It was therefore decided to set up this special parliamentary committee, for a preliminary examination, in accordance with the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament and the Code of Criminal Procedure. Procedurally, this dispute has two arms, civil and criminal. As to the development of the civil and criminal aspects of the dispute, we have the following: First, the civil part of Switzerland's litigation has expired with an arbitration ruling by a Swiss arbitration court in favour of the Arabs, which it recognised and declared as enforcer in Greece as Greek court. Secondly, the criminal part relates to the present case-file and was raised by the contested complaint, submitted by the Kalogritsa family against the Arab Huri, for the above reasons. Would it be true if the Swiss body's decision were in its favour? We do not know that, but we consider it very difficult. Incidentally, the impression that we personally received from Mr Christos Kalogrisas' hearing was that he could not under any circumstances be taken away from anyone, since it is an extremely experienced businessman, as he has already confirmed many times, with a further major political experience. Therefore, the 'front man', that is, the front, is controversial. As far as political pressure is concerned, at least in line with the former management of the Attica Bank, which was asked as a witness, this has never happened, of course, in relation to this bank. Without extending to details now, since they have already been mentioned by the previous speakers, our impression, as a non-specialist, but a non-legislative and non-legislative, was that it was a dispute between two businessmen, who had no reason to employ Parliament, on the basis of the sum of EUR 3 million. In view of the fact that all the very serious accusations have been dropped from New Democracy alone, one could assume that there was an agreement between the two parties, the Troika and the interior, which we hope will not happen, since it would be linked to exchanges in the future. We will close with our conclusion that we note: The facts alleged as facts of the case-file and also of the committee of inquiry that followed, of course, are very interesting facts about our country's political history. However, in a favoured and justifiable state - we emphasise a favoured and just state - no citizen can be above the law or enjoy a special immunity framework, whatever office he holds, no matter how high. Special guarantees, due to the obvious specificity of a person's position, are not compatible with a genuine legal system, as they should be. Unfortunately, it's not the Greek. The special arrangements provided for in Article 86 of the Constitution, concerning the criminal liability of members of the Government and the State Secretarys, are anachronistic and extremely dangerous for our social life. It is one of many reasons that has been driven by our multiplier homeland into bankruptcy. In the policy of submissiveness of inclination and international dueness - beggaring, that is - and also the incubation to inherit our children much less than we inherited from our parents. Shouldn't we all be ashamed of ourselves? Shouldn't we be dealing with this instead of political mischiefs? Rule 86 goes to the corresponding constitutional provisions of the 19th century and this is an excellent case where political and judicial power are involved and do not follow separate streets, as is the principle of separation of powers, which should be respected and protected by all of us in this House, especially us in this House. With the involvement of Parliament, the question of the criminal liability of a minister, fatal, takes on political characteristics, and may be the subject of political weightings, arrangements or severe confrontations and conflicts, often escaping from the critical issue at issue, often becoming the subject of communication, while the criminal field of the case is politicized, thus creating distrust among the citizens against the political system. The Greek Solution is openly in favour of abolishing Article 86 of the Constitution. We are openly in favour of abolishing Article 86 of the Constitution. It is a proposal contained in our 490-page programme, which has recently been released, so that criminal cases can be judged for everyone, citizens, MPs and ministers by the natural independent judge. In conclusion, we have often pointed out the communication abuse of these parliamentary procedures for micro-party policy, which do not provide a substantial contribution to the settlement of cases, but, on the contrary, achieve to draw the attention of the Greek citizens to the substance of the case. At the same time, they allow protagonists to engage in toys of impression, in theatrical performances, that is, to influence voters, rather than engage in the real problems of our country, which are constantly deteriorating, from education (the worst) to the economy and nationalities. Above all, as a result of the sudden change of attitude of the New Democracy towards the most favourable, the Greek Solution has left the voting process in committee, denounced in the clearest and most clearest way every attempt to exploit a profound criminal case. We think it's a deep criminal case. For the same reasons, we shall withdraw from today's procedure and vote. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. As I said before, Mr. Nikolaos Pappas will rise in Step. Mr Pappa - I mentioned it before, but you were not in the Chamber - we will set 30 minutes. I have, however, received the consent of all colleagues, if need be, to tolerance. He has then asked for the floor, which is entitled under the Rules of Procedure, for ten minutes. We will continue with Mr Keletsis as the first speaker and then Mr Ragus will speak as a parliamentary representative. This line I told you will only be overturned if Mr Tsipras comes and wants to speak before Mr Ragosi. And because we are moving forward well - and I say it now for Mr Ragosi, in order not to be held unjust - and because another political leader, from what we have been informed, will not come, ten minutes will be here, Mr Ragosi, regardless of the formality. Mr. Poppa, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u19	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today a parliamentary circle is closed, not a circle opened by the resolution of Law No.4339, which is the law, which currently applies to private television, but which closes a circle from the beginning of violation of the Constitution, in relation to television licences and the television scene. It is the absolute vindication of our efforts after thirty years of lawlessness. It is the right of a policy which - I would like to remind you - was shielded by the relevant decisions of the National Broadcasting Council and by the number of licences and, of course, by the decisions of the Council of State on the amount of the price. It is a two-way rule, firstly, because it is now a law that you have chosen to do, with the exception of the derogations that you have chosen to do as a government, in serving the interests of the ownership of television stations, by reducing to zero the price for licences and, of course, by reducing the minimum level of employment. Oh of wonder, you have changed the work, the insurance, the system of introduction to education, always in the direction of increasing inequality! All you haven't done is split society officially into castes. And yet, this law and its core don't touch him. We have not seen your President, whoever really shot this law in the face of it and said that permits must be unlimited, coming to repeat this claim in this parliamentary term, that you are a majority. So Mr Mitsotakis could not apply and guarantee him, such as the Prespecies Agreement, but change him. You don't. You do not, because you know that he is now shielded and formally and legally. Secondly, it is justifiable because your finding admits that there is not even sufficient evidence of the felony for which you dared to blame me. This is the first time in parliamentary times when the prosecutors themselves have been proclaiming that they have not even found enough evidence of the felony on which they built the indictment. So the indictment was demolished. The indictment was broken by you yourself. You've calmed down and revoked the charge of a felony. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate that I have done my duty towards the party, which I have the honour of representing the Greek people as well, who is the final judge of all of us. I am proud that we have dared, but also managed to regulate the television scene, with our proper mistakes and with our mistakes, that the public received a price for the licenses that were not paid, that we protected jobs and created new ones, both in the pan-Hellenic channels and as a whole in the audiovisual sector. And if he has broken someone or someone his duty is whoever or whoever had a term in this portfolio and did not regulate, he has not licensed, did not claim to pay taxes, did not protect jobs. Do you really realize, gentlemen, how much money has been lost by the public since 1989, where this illegality and violation of the Constitution began? This is more than EUR 1 billion. It is now apparent from the owners themselves that they should pay and pay a price of that amount. How much money could the Greek public receive the seasons of the cows when they received the money? But where did it go? It was towards the irresponsible media lending, which, when we took over the country's governance, had debts of one billion. Look, at 1 billion had reached the debts of private television stations. It turns out, therefore, that the public could have collected money for three decades, there, responsibility should be sought! There, we should all look for responsibilities together. Because we've proved it's happening. Instead, there are obvious political purposes. Likewise, responsibilities and duty violations should be sought by those who closed down ERT and left themselves, private television stations and market owners to claim digital frequencies. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, now that this cycle has been completed, we can surely say that you knew very well that it is a huge chance to lead you to fiasco. It was mathematically sure you felt it. That is why you have, from the outset, included the charge of breaching duty, which has proved to be your legal and political airbag, after the fierce conflict with the truth. But here we come to the obvious. Because what you are actually doing today is trying to give us political responsibilities. In fact, this is where the ancient saying "and give it to me" or to the Cretan "square the mountain and give it a mouse". Did I say that right?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u20	I'm fine.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u21	It is truly disastrous for the parliamentary procedures and the level of political controversy you choose after the indictment has been withdrawn in the proposal for tax control of Kostas Vaxevani's publishing companies. Watch, now, what the picture is. You have set up a pre-examination committee, you have contributed to the launching of tons of mud, and against me and against our extradition, the indictment and its core collapses, and you end up claiming tax control on Kostas Vaxvanis' publishing companies. Take note, not of the companies mentioned in the case, because the companies mentioned in the case are the property companies of Mr Kalogrisa, not Mr Vaxebane's company which published after the paper 'DOCUMENTO'. I think that, in fact, it does not contribute to the seriousness of this debate. And you must pay attention to the following: The targeting of a particular journalist and publisher, beyond the ridicule of the institutions, is increasing and vertically contemptuously, because you know that legislation forbids all of us from holding, holding public office, holding foreign companies' shares. I hope, indeed, that the explanations which Mr Mitsotakis is actually called upon to give are sufficient. Not giving any explanation, however, is rightly giving rise to questions, how much rather a publisher, a post-mortem journalist, is targeting himself - I would like to remind him - you refused to call him as a witness. Note the picture: Refuse to call him as a witness, he is at the core of the indictment, the perforated indictment, which you drew against me, and afterward order guilty to their companies. How, then, can the Greek people not be suspicious of this sequence of events? Of course, we should admit that witness exclusion practice is not unprecedented. The same thing you did in the case of "NOVARTIS", in the case of this global scandal, which is everywhere scandalous and only in Greece, according to yours, is a construction. And, of course, there the victim of this tactic was Mimis Papagelopoulos. It is a case that, as I said, throughout the world is scandalous, NoVARTIS itself has confessed to the need for officials and yet you are insisting on the theory of construction. In the case of this committee, of course, you have gone further and, apart from excluding witnesses, you have passed it and "writed" it in the Minutes. Of course - and here I am going to say it directly, and I must admit it - during the process the majority of the Members of the New Democrat Republic moved within the limits of some, unfortunately, deafening exceptions. And in an explosion of sincerity a Member of Parliament in committee said, accusing the main accused witness, that he did not produce sufficient and sufficient evidence. "You didn't tell us anything" they told him in intense style. So you entered the vehicle of confiscation, as I said before, and you predicted having the airbag of the duty violation. You're confusing with the truth. It would be a wish for the political life of the country, ladies and gentlemen, especially of the New Democracy, to learn a lesson from the obsessers of the "executive" state and of Maximos, but also from those in the press believe that they have the potential to slander in an extreme way and interfere in the political game in terms of clearing up accounts. And if, as I told you in my speech during the debate on the establishment of the Committee of Inquiry, your proposal was a mixture of dormant to the interests and enthusiasm to the Greek people, your finding is a mixture of truth and remains of party feasibility. The undeniable truth has made you withdraw the indictment's core and the party's feasibility, its remnants, makes you with a heavy heart and without the prosecutor's confidence to insist on the charge of the crime. Ladies and gentlemen, it is crucial at such times that Members, Members of Parliament, decide in historical terms, perceive themselves as actors in modern political history. And the history of the television landscape in Greece is sinful. I want to remind you once again of the basic, key, historical turns of developments in this landscape. It started in 1989. Licences were granted on a preferential basis to already issuers. The ‘MEGA CHANNEL’ has been established. Lambrakis, Vardinoyannis, Bobolas, Kyrchos, Tegopoulos, Aristides Alfouzos in the first phase. The following was followed by "ANT1". Sunday, Kallagris, Buddour, Purnaras. In 1995 there was the first attempt to settle the television landscape with the Evangelos Venizelos. This law provided for a specific number of licences by a Minister's decision. Be careful, hostage battles took place in this Chamber about who will decide the number of permits. We have properly and politically and scientifically documented the position that we have taken. And, of course, this law provided for a competitive procedure by the National Broadcasting Council. In 1997, he launched an attempt to implement the law with Minister Reppa. This effort has been delayed. In 2002 the competition, which had been opened, was declared barren. Five years later! Look out, five years later! The channels continue to operate without permission. We have the 2004 elections and in 2007 the Rousopoulos Act. Mr. Rousopoulos is also present in the Chamber and can testify that 4339 has too many similarities to the law that he had proposed to the House. I will only refer to one, beyond the competitive process and the number of licences. The Rusopoulos Act introduced the minimum number of workers for the first time. He's very welcome. That's how we thought and thought well. It is also presumed by your own state afterward, because two years you have kept it much higher than the Rusopulus Act, which provided for two hundred employees per channel, we made it four hundred. And that is where we have heard about Soviet regulation, that we are imposing on private companies how many workers have to. And then the extensions begin. And here, indeed, it would also be interesting for the New Democracy to hear an assessment of a historical nature for that period. Rusopoulos Law is passed in 2007 and it becomes de facto the great legal, constitutionality through the successive extensions to its implementation. What phones did they get up at the time? Who have forced the Rusopou law not to be implemented? Did any of you get Mr. Rusopulus out because of his intention to license? Shouldn't that be said at one time? Should the Greek people not know why we arrived in 2015 to stop the extensions of the Rusopoulos Act that had been passed in 2007? The Greek people understand. Because in 2015 the political change took place and that is where the extensions, the insulting extensions he said, "we are extending the status of legal function". So it stopped this situation with, of course, insulting, insulting legislative initiatives such as the one of the Government of Papademos, which said - listen - 'the operation of legitimate stations is continuing indefinitely'. You understand that. In other words, the government comes and says, "I will be violating the Constitution." At that time the decisions adopted by the Council of State and it says that TV stations are illegally operating without permission are contrary to the Constitution. In the older shoes of technocrats and bankers, therefore, the violation of the Constitution at that time. Legislative arrangement that said they'd be violating it. There Greek democracy had arrived, there the Greek political system had arrived, with no adequacy, without any political displacement, without any possibility of explaining to individuals that it is not possible for their special partial interest to fall so obscurely in the public interest. Insulting moments for Greek democracy! What did we receive? We received an ERT closed, which had been closed to only one participant in the tender for the digital provider. We have received decisions from the Council of State, as I said before, that it is illegal and unconstitutional to operate television channels without a licence. We received fees for the use of frequencies, which were not collected and which were deferred with the so-called 'king-up amendments'. On 31 December each year an amendment was made and it said that the collection of these was postponed. We also received advertising taxes which had not been collected and, of course, TV channels without a licence, but with debts of around EUR 1 billion. And we started, of course, working directly, because we had also received a National Broadcasting Council with no legal composition. How is that supposed to be? From the fact that the Council of State cancelled any fine that the PSE was trying, in its composition at the time, to impose. What did the Council of State decide? That there is no legal composition. Imagine trying to get us through this composition and with this National Broadcasting Council to tender for television licences, that is to say, to resolve the constitutional gordium link, to resolve this constitutional deadlock. I think that every Member of Parliament, every member of the National Representation, would not last ten minutes to pass outside the Council of State. We started work right away. ERT opened in June 2015. In October 2015, L.4339 was voted, which again anticipates a competitive process. A prerequisite, of course, for the implementation of the law is the establishment of the National Radiovision Council. And there we have parallel refusals from the New Democracy and expressly argued that there is no way for the New Democracy to consent to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council. The first competition takes place, the decision of the Council of State, which demands that the competition be repeated by the National Broadcasting Council, and is finally formed after six Conferences of Presidents National Broadcasting Council and undertakes to carry out the procedure for the licensing of channels. One very critical detail here is that the National Broadcasting Council with its unanimous decision - it had not left the world as well, and the late Rodolf Moronis then - decides that the starting price for the seven television licences that are auctioned is 35 million. All 35 million are those which result from the simple division of 245 that we had secured under number 7. The National Broadcasting Council, in other words, considered that this is the minimum price to be paid by television channels. In the face of this decision, the Association of Television Stations, if I'm not mistaken, and the owners of television stations alone, appealed to the Council of State. And the appeal was rejected by the Council of State on the grounds that this process, this three-story competition in August 2016, is the only effort to assess the public good called "television license", which participants themselves made on their own choice and uploaded it to that level. And their appeal was rejected, precisely because they themselves had proved that the public good of television licences is so much appreciated. So the number of licences has also been entitled, not by the Council of State, but by you. The National Broadcasting Council has declared seven. Have you thought the channels should be seventeen? I haven't heard from you at all. But you called it from this Step in 2015 and 2016, when you launched cords against us. So I'd say it's a day like this. Like the minimum number of employees, the price for licences has of course been validated. But your political destiny is such that it has made you nullify it. And here in order for there to be no shadow, I tell you that we too are in favour of strengthening the press. In fact, I would venture to say a little more than the other formal companies, because the press plays a special role in the functioning of our democracy, but in terms of transparency and equality and not with outsourcing, not by delegating to private companies and opaque transactions. So without second thought, ladies and gentlemen, the public in our policy collected money, protected jobs and created new ones. The infamous competition, for the circumvention of which you dare to blame me in this gross indictment, has been checked in all its phases with over eighty applications for annulment and interim measures before the Council of State. They've all been rejected! And you stayed with the raw material of the appeal lodged against me by a candidate who was excluded because the very conditions of the competition were too strict. I would remind you that in the indictment that the specific participant in the contest, Mr. Kalogritsa, asked me to check on six offences. From this, you have chosen the two and stayed at the end of the pre-inquiry with one, the breach of duty, for which we will speak and in detail. Ladies and gentlemen, the witnesses you have called for have been converted by their statements from charges to defence witnesses. Christos Kalogeris testified that no one else except for the front. He testified that he made 15 million euros of his own money. He put EUR 8 million into the company's funds because this was what the tender provided for, namely that there must be a share capital of EUR 8 million and more than EUR 6 million - I do not remember how much it is - to get his son tax information, who was the owner of the company that took part in the tender, because without tax information there was no possibility of going through the threshold of this contest. He also admitted that with the Lebanese, the 'CC', with the Huri family has a civil dispute, which they jointly sought to resolve. Kyriakos Tobras testified that he was the mediator between the two sides, both before and after the competition. He testified that he secured the money he was asking for and looking for, and also filed the then temporary successful tenderer to tell him that Kontomenas, Vardinoyannis, the Marinakis, were begging him. And he told us he felt like a billionaire. He produced, of course, a handwritten agreement, which was signed - take note - two years after the competition between the two sides. It was an agreement, which showed that there was still a debate two years after the competition, to resolve the issue of this private dispute. The charge of third-party bribery has therefore been definitively dismantled by this statement. You describe it accurately in your finding. The Municipality of Verkios testified that he did not know himself about any political involvement in the related appointments of Kontomenia - Kalogrica, that this date was closed after the last called and that the Kontomenis told him that Kalogrica did not want to be seen in their eyes in Maximos. Mr. Tsadaris, a member of the Bank of Attica, has shown that there was no privileged treatment of Mr. Kalogrisa. He testified that the 3m euros came legally to Greece from abroad, were legally transferred to the accounts of the company, which participated in the tender and that the relevant guarantee letter had been issued legally. That's what the witnesses you've chosen, because a lot of them, we suggested, you've chosen not to call them. It's obvious that you were worried that their statements would be exposed to you. They'd make the fiasco in the eyes of the people. Now let's go to the two offenses. From the outset you knew that none of the two parties to the agreement considered the money that existed in their transaction as a gift. The Lebanese company had already appealed to the international and Greek courts, while the Kalogritsa side had already been indicted by the ‘TOXOTIS’, it considered it well held, because the Lebanese owed it to it. The same thing has been said by your main witness in the committee. The whole case concerned a civil dispute, which had not only taken the course of justice, but had also been judged by it. You knew and consciously concealed the judicial decisions from your proposal to set up the committee. You knew, and we told you all along. Already, since July 2020, when this case started, SYRIZA in an announcement says that this is a civil dispute, which you tried a year to turn into a political and criminal issue. So you know it and you confess it to your finding. Listen carefully, especially the Members of the majority. You say exactly in your conclusion that the relationship between the Kalogerica and the 'CC' and if, in the end, this amount must be reimbursed, even if the contract were entirely virtual, it is not part of the Commission's control and concerns the civil claim to 'CCC' to 'TOXOTIS'. What did you not know when this story started and then the pre-review committee came to this conclusion? Listen, please, clearly: 'The difference between them is a civil dispute and it is not the subject of which the committee should be involved'. You're the ones who say it. No headlines, free announcements, free tons of mud! However, as those who have been following this case are aware, the god to do so - your ultimate state had consciously chosen the slippery path of slander and mud, obeying once again, as you have become accustomed to doing, unfortunately, in arrogant interests and political purposes. And, of course, there was a time when he put a tombstone in that part of the indictment. It was the time that the Bank of Greece report arrived in committee. The report was overwhelming about the story that went to stand. It confirms that the EUR 3 million is part of the transaction of two private individuals and does not record any political involvement at the time of the money coming, or in their management or after the repayment of the guarantee letters. The reason why the money came is the courts say so. How they came and where they went after the competition was cancelled says the Bank of Greece with the signature of Yiannis Stournaras. The 3m euros were then returned to the Kalogrisa company that participated in the competition. From there they shared with the construction companies in the family, which in turn used this money to cover their obligations. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Madam President. That's what the Bank of Greece says. That was the tombstone in the spiral, which I have received and the order of ours. This report has put an end to any scenario of this kind of involvement, which I must say, of course, very few have clearly dared to formulate and few have dared to imply. These are the inconsistent elements that forced you to recall the core of the indictment. You admit that for the felony for which you risked blaming me, there's not even enough evidence. For proof, of course, no reason! But, before I come to the charge of a breach of duty, I would like to ask you a question. If a political leader gets a gift from a company, namely its own company and infrastructure for some time and, indeed, a polling company, what should he be accused of? And I say this because the Kalogerica report that he sent Mr. Theodorikos to Mr. Mitsotakis with the dowry of the "GPO" that Mr. Mitsotakis had together before he was elected to the leadership of the New Democracy, raises reasonable questions. One thing I had asked when this story began, for New Democracy to submit all the invoices and transactions it has with this company, to see what conclusions they would draw, because there was no talk in the pre-review committee of another gift. None! But there was a picture of this exchange, I'd say. We're going to the duty violation offense offense. Five years after the license competition, with your finding, you are tearing down the vulgar lies that you have brought against me, but also at the expense of the SYRIZA Government. You admit you were just throwing mud for supposed transactions, secret agreements, fixed procedures. You knew and knew the facts of that period. You also tried to prevent the development of the tender, which would bring revenue to the public funds. You're the ones who tried not to be a competition. You refused to contribute to the establishment of the National Broadcasting Council. You know, very well, both the security differences and the call for tenders. You know that Mr. Kalogritsas was excluded precisely because the conditions of the competition were too strict, not on the basis of a law of the New Democracy or on the basis of a notice issued by the New Democracy, but on the basis of our own conditions. And yet you're trying to blame me for the design, the definition of the terms and the legality of a contest that Mr. Kalogeritsa would be allowed to take, while I knew he didn't meet the conditions for participation in the contest, which we ourselves set, a contest of which we set the terms, and then I tried to violate them, so that Kalogeritsa would get permission, but I didn't violate them and Kalogeritsa didn't get permission. I think one is aware of the absurdity. He doesn't have to be a lawyer. But here you are also in the fundamental contradiction because your main witness is wronged by us, and according to your claims he is highly favoured. The truth is, unfortunately, for you in the middle: neither did we have any disadvantaged nor wronged ones. There has been no cleaner and crystal clearer competition that has passed the suffering of control at every stage and by the Constitutional Court. As he says, ladies and gentlemen, the New Democracy's finding of criminality is only the official's controlled act if it is a positive expression of state will and a state power within the public affairs cycle. You say the self-evident - of course we agree - that the violation of duty is being carried out through the adoption of an administrative act, that is to say, I have adopted an administrative decision, that I have put my signature on a decision that creates specific conditions or benefits for particular persons. However, all administrative acts, which were adopted at the time of the judgment and relating to the competition, the participants and the procedure as a whole, went beyond the suffering of dozens of candidates. So many actions should not really have been brought before in any other kind of competition and all have been rejected by the Council of State one by one, as it really should not have been in another case. And you know why the appeals were rejected? Because the Council of State considered that the administrative acts adopted were legal. So what breach of duty are you talking about? And if you're accusing me of breaching my duty, I guess you'll imply that those who checked the decisions and the administrative acts and approved them and didn't reject them have broken their duty. I would like to present to you - and I will also need the help of the people who have made the House operational in difficult circumstances - all the appeals submitted by the candidates of the competition. A lot of interesting facts are recorded here, not only in terms of our government's decisions, but also in respect of gaps that the candidates of the other participants themselves presented. Then, you see, they were all against everyone. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Nikolaos Papapas, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you to the staff of this House. Have a good reading, I wish you a good study. We are talking about over eighty refugees, which the Committee of Indicators of the Council of State has decided on, and I think you will take this very seriously into account. And on your findings, too... [[Noise in the Chamber]] We don't have Pakistani phones. In your conclusion, therefore, you underline that we have a breach of duty when a State minister with intent violates the duties of his service in order to give himself or another illegal advantage or harm the State. And here is the absolute irrationality. By Law No.4339, the State collected, it had a clear benefit contrary to what happened thirty years ago, in contrast to your choice to grant free of charge with the non-procedural tendering procedure and the continuous extensions of a public asset, which, as demonstrated by Law.4339, was of very high value. In your case, it is true that the designations of "transparency" and "complexity" are sufficient or that a clear and clear "transparency" is more appropriate. Everyone has fulfilled their duty over the last thirty years and has the Constitution been violated on its own? What exactly happened? As far as I am concerned, the violation of duty as it is attributed to me is also disguised by another point. They consider that the involvement of the ‘CC’ and the other candidates in the tendering procedure was their own participation. You say that the agreement between ‘CCC’ and Kalogerica concerned the participation of ‘CCC’ in the campaign of television licences to control part of the programme. Your assumptions are absolutely deaf as the claim that has been moved to the media for a year, which has targeted me personally and our protracted e-mail, which speaks of "White House" and "White Porcha". You fought on night to prove that "White House" and "White Porcha" are not the Huri brothers, who were also aware and able to move their money according to their will and place them where they wish and consider your supreme debt to prove that these phrases, bypassing the introductory e-mail in question, concern some government officials. It is clear that, after the pre-review committee's data, neither are they able to withstand the criticism. You refer to the communications that have been with the competition candidates. I'm sorry to tell you, but you're breaking open doors. I told you in my speech when the Committee of Inquiry was set up that I was speaking to everyone. Repeatedly they submitted demands, often unreasonable, on the part of the public. I think we defended the public interest. If you have another opinion, we are here to listen to it, but then you must also justify your own inappropriateness. It is obvious that we have tried and managed to have a high participation in the competition, and that is a breach of duty for you. We have achieved a very high price that had also caused vulgar titles in the newspapers in those days I remember and you are talking about a breach of duty. When Mr. Mitsotakis meets with TV stations owners it's not a duty violation, it's just Wednesday! And when it follows Mr. Pecha's meetings with the television stations' owners, zeroing the permit price is a duty. And when after the meetings there is an amendment that you take half of it back to bring down the minimum number of workers and that is a duty. And our state was a violation of our duties. It is or is not a breach of duty the countless direct assignments that you do without need and reason from the notorious Mrs Nicholas to the OSH who ordered 250,000 euro gloves from a float in Serres by direct assignment. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Note: From a furniture shop in Serres to a direct assignment of 250,000 euros to get gloves, as if he could not find gloves from a frying shop in Serres. It had to be a float. It is obvious, ladies and gentlemen, that you and others have another sense of duty. You dare not touch the core of our law. To sum up, I would like to say this: if anyone simply reads the proposal of the Members of the New Democracy, it appears that both criminal offences are trying to establish themselves in the same facts. In the proposal of the New Democracy and the two offences are based on the same so-called actions and omissions that I have in the course of the competitive procedure. If one does not read the minutes of the meetings, one will understand that the facts on which the basis of the charges was attempted proved to be completely untrue and contrary to reality. And one basic question arises: how is it possible for the same real or supposed incidents to be considered insufficient to refer me to the felony but sufficient to refer me to the violation of duty? What magical way is that exactly? But whatever attempt I think it is made by any reasonable person who follows this procedure will understand that this is a clear logic and legal contradiction. The only explanation that exists is the remnants of the party feasibility you are choosing today to observe and follow. Ladies and gentlemen, from the course of this case there are major questions that arise not in terms of my face, but in terms of the political life of the country. How, really, do you realize the role of the parties? How do you understand the role of your own party? Do you think serving special and some interests is what will perpetuate your personal and collective political survival? Why did you choose to become transparent preachers of those who took advantage of the inertia of the political system and harmed the country by looting both their businesses and public frequencies, not paying taxes, while using a public good without honor? So let us ask ourselves, from here on, whether democracy will set the rules? Will the press control the power, or will it cycl elected governments to enforce the agenda for serving certain interests? Will these special interests succeed in beating the public interest? So vote with these things in your mind, not only your contradictory and perforated Coming. The role of the media is irreplaceable for democracy and their freedom can be guaranteed within our democratic city, which provides all the guarantees of pluralism and pluralism against all forms of censorship, while at the same time setting the framework for their operation. No one in democracy can be above rules, no one can function uncontrollably, neither the governments nor the media. Otherwise, we lead to extremes: on the one hand censorship through extortion or extraction, and on the other hand, media pluralism and pluralism are a precondition for the proper functioning of the society, because only the well-informed citizen can think freely, decide on the basis of his individual will, away from and beyond propaganda and manipulation sirens. In the media, the heart of democracy is beating, but recently it has arrhythmias. Fortunately, in recent years, there have also been social media which make facilitation of events - look at this - almost impossible, correct the arrhythmias resulting from the monopolies of the conventional media. Note that anyone who slands the social media and wants to control them does not have the wisdom to listen to the "secret help of the nearby events" as Kavafis would say. In the face of these common assumptions, therefore, a self-evident task, irrespective of the political area in which everyone belongs, is to ensure the free functioning of the media together in an institutionalised framework of principles and laws ensuring the public interest. This is the task of those who have, in time, always, public office. That is what we served, consistently. And that is not a political position. It is something that is undeniably presumed. And you admit it, too, side by side and greedy. Has the position of the public and the workers improved by our policy? Clearly and beyond question. One wonders: was such a mud worth it, so perversion, slander, vomit headlines, personal and collective trial worth it? Yes, he deserved it, ladies and gentlemen, of the New Democracy. Do you know why? Because otherwise the speech would still be a minister who perpetuated lawlessness in the media, and our government would still be a government that did not dare put order in the television scene. And - believe it - this is the criticism of the history of the future that our conscience cannot withstand, it 'exceeded and has not touched', 'You don't get bored, so he was'. That's what our conscience couldn't stand. Our conscience would not endure to justify the lusts of the desires of the extremists, who wish, work and work to prove the period 2015-2019, a "left parenthesis". But the left-wing government, for you, has come not to manage the problem, but to solve it. So this party has come to things and played a leading role in political life to change the conditions for the benefit of the people, and that will do as a backbone of tomorrow's left-wing and progressive governance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u22	The former President of Parliament, Mr Butsi, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u23	Ladies and gentlemen, today's debate, as it is going on, is extremely useful for Parliament, for the political life of the country, and it can also be politically, institutional cleansing, if there is what we are calling on this House, for the rejection of the proposal in its essence, but also for the political distance from criminalisation of the country's lives, to be useful to see in this process and for whom they are calling for. Ladies and gentlemen, the maximum scandal of post-multi-population since there was liberation in the hertzian and electronic landscape is obviously or for twenty-five years immunities of the media, the electronic media, which aimed, as the aim of serving politicians, the service of persons, the service of stereotypes and stereotypes, I would say, conservative to Greek life, so that the two parties of post-government bicommunism could extend their own political sovereignty. That's the maximum scandal. And the debate that is taking place today is about the future. Because what messages will we send, will Parliament send to Greek society first, and what messages will it send to the great economic interests that have been and are in the core of this situation in the sense of ownership and in the sense of incompatibility? I'm telling you straight away. There is a question of dictating politics and hostility to politics. There is a very big concentration and you know that very well. Even in the few permits granted, there is an attempt to collect and share ownership between these licences, and there is also a duplication of people who obviously have nothing to do with the press and the profession. These have something to do with the future, not just today, and it matters what messages we send out. It is clear that there is an attempt to criminalize instead of political control, because the finding that he is being accused of violating his duty - that is why Nikos Pappas is being invoked, which has previously been very well documented and calmly placed in the whole process - what he says? An attempt, he says, to influence the process, without even a result. Whee-min! Make political control, parliamentary control. These are things that can be discussed, arguments come, documentaries come. What does this have to do with an interrogation committee? What does it have to do with criminalising political life and all that we have experienced and your programming statements, which was an element? Where and where? How can it be possible to relinquish and force political forces to influence the media and, in particular, electronic media? It is clear that for decades, for twenty-five years the instruments have been given immunity and profitability and speculation and comfortable lending, at the heart of the country's political life have served directly - and therefore have been directly affected, in all ways - the policy of your parties. I am not just talking about New Democracy. I refer also to the PASOK - a movement of change, on the basis of what Mr Kegeroglu said, which has invoked all political forces for the fact that PASOK had done everything clearly in the previous phase. Ladies and gentlemen, do we not remember that, in the crisis by large electronic means, parties were born, leaders were born, prime ministers? Nor do we remember the incredible anti-institutional role they played in the 2015 referendum that week? I don't have time to tell you details of that week, I think we've all lived. I was in direct contact with both as Minister of the Interior at that time and immediately said that you were looking at, that is our opinion and we will not show the two gatherings that were taking place, the two suggestions that were made for the referendum. Look at the dynamic that week. They're bills, Mr. Ploiris, these, big bills. And we come to today, which we all know, in the pandemic for a year and a half. They are clearly extinguishing government policy and everything that it does and silences itself, because that is the most crucial one. There is a great effort to buy this silence. Even the ERT - neither of us wants it, I am sure - does not have a show of political dialogue on what the whole world, the whole of Europe, and we in here, crucial issues, on the subject of pandemics, before and after, different positions. Political dialogue has been abolished. Isn't that a buy-out? What is it? Is the world interested? Inside the pandemic due to restrictive measures millions of people were stuck before and after 18.00 to see about the issue of their own and family survival. It is a political price for the effort that you have made, and now you are continuing, to have where it goes through - I am not levelling, but where it goes through - this takeover policy. At the same time, targeting rivals, targeting the former Prime Minister for the rent of one of his homes, who enters the news as a big subject, and at the same time saving everything else. Targeting and political opponents. So we are not talking about a neutral situation. We are talking about a situation which began in 1988-90 in political interest. And you now abdicate SYRIZA, his government, the Minister responsible at the time, that he was trying to influence any positive results on some of the permits, in relation to the treatment of the government at the time. I repeat. Make parliamentary control. What are we talking about here today for special courts? Where to? 2015: our discussions - I tell you as former President of Parliament - with the New Democracy Party and with the other parties, while the process was lasting and extended to elect the new leader of the New Democracy - remember, there was an extension of the procedure - we were discussing precisely to have the National Broadcasting Council, because there was only Mrs Alexios who had given us an excellent report and a few members, Mrs Papadopoulou, etc., in time the first month we had taken over the government. I had to bring it to the Conference of Presidents. The consultations had gone on and I can say that we were too close to getting results. At the end of 2015, there would have been a National Broadcasting Council and everything would be going to the Constitution, according to the law, etc. in this critical area. The first act by the new leader of the New Democracy and current Prime Minister was to block - I say it directly to you - politically and institutionally I know of any debate to be held by a National Broadcasting Council. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am not invoking and I would never have done so, and I would have done so in your fellow Members who then placed themselves in these consultations. But it's well known. And what was the effort? The attempt was to have an immunity on the issue of licences. They were talking about infinite permits - then there were also Mr Leventis and a number of others who saw this notion and the New Democracy - giving infinite permits and using the PSE blocking as a basic argument to drop this article, because the Pope Act never fell. In other words, you blocked the constitutional process and even during the marginal, but a majority of the Council of State, and you blocked it, and that blocking you brought it into this Chamber - three meetings had taken place - remembering that - as a basic argument that the government should not go ahead with legislation. Are we talking about political populism? Are we talking about the anti-institutional mentality? They're forcing who? It has just become the pandemic, the first companies, before we arrived at the 'FRAPORT' and the other ones, which were premiums directly, to do what I said before - do not talk about it now - were the electronic media with the specific list of Petsa, etc. Who didn't realize it was a straight, informal, unspeakable transaction? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I'm gonna need some time, Madam President. So you moved on this road. To tell me how many breaches of duty for how many governments and how many ministers - it is Thodros Rousopoulos in front of me - of the previous twenty-five years and how many procedures with your own logic should have started rather than political control, which have evolved for twenty years, when there are six decisions of the Council of State which invoked the executive authority that 'take direct competition, it is illegal the way that the media operates'! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] How many Prime Ministers, how many ministers, some of whom were mentioned earlier by Nikos Papapas, have been trying and falling before a lobby in Brussels, lobby by lawyers and politicians, so that instead of the shareholder, which then the Greek government, and with the support of the Left, raised as a key issue, because I mentioned earlier on the subject of concentration, the regulation of channels in the commercial sector, along with fetishes and cars, and not in the area of culture that were clauses for constitutional immunity from each individual state, and how was the battle lost by the Greek state, lost? And you're leaving today? Do you know all this? These are registered without appealing. You have not denied everything that I mentioned now. There are also well-known journalists present who know too much. That's the truth. That's the story. And you're talking about not respecting the Council of State? For the limit, do I repeat, a decision that took part in the relevant article of the law? Who are they saying to respect the Council of State? How the book - it's not one of what Nikos Papapas brought here - with the decisions of the S.H.I.E.L.D. where did you and your governments write them in the oldest shoes, until we got to the unexecution of giving extensions to the biennials? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] At the same time, ladies and gentlemen, you had voted with us here, and we had made the committee of the House which saw precisely the issue of the interlocutory and triangle of the media, bank lending and the debts of the parties! I leave this next door because you have a self-interest. I get it. And there is a conclusion on this matter. Main theme of democracy. At the same time, you would be totally different to that story. And the National Broadcasting Council - Nikos mentioned earlier and Rhodolfos Moronis who knew the issues - and through his decision he said that there would be so many licenses they would pay so much. And in this sense, it is clear that there is both quantitative and qualitative confirmation of the process, which had been ahead of us. Unfortunately, the same National Broadcasting Council, however, one and a half years ago, is now posing the island, is not interfering anywhere in this unspeakable 'party' of a new interface made by electronic means. As you have also reached this last week, because you are catching the whole communication sector, you think politics is communication. It's not and it'll prove again. However, it creates large institutional 'causings'. You have reached for polling companies too - and I say it from here in the Chamber to hear about those who do not know it - and you rejected our proposal to control even one company of strangers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u24	But there's another context.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u25	Just a minute, Mr. Marcopoulou, please. You weren't.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u26	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u27	You rejected the statutory inspection of a polling company, which had obviously achieved results, even for the PASOK leadership and so forth, rather in the office. And what did you reveal to us there? That the law-based polling company, “Yiannis is buying and drinking,” but is legislated, for thirteen years, has not checked anyone and imposed no fine! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, I have not said that to break up or to raise the tone. I said it directly about what I told you all along. To reject today the proposal for a conclusion will be a start for our democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u28	Thank you, Mr President. Now Mr Keletsis has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u29	"My Nicos, my Levour and my pride." Unfortunately, ladies and gentlemen, I do not have the opportunity to speak in the same way as Mr Kalogritsa, the 'national dalavertzer', as Mrs Jackson said, was addressing the SMS of Mr Papa. I see Mr. Pappas leaves the Chamber. I would say that once again Mr Pappas did not respond to the criticisms given to him by the committee. It's the second time he's done it. When the committee was called upon to testify, it appealed to the legal capacity, which it had, of course, to testify by means of a memorandum. And today, I think, for the substance - for the tachograph, which we are saying - nothing has been said. 'My Niko', therefore, 'My wish and my Lebanese, because on the seventh day I leave for Porto Heli, but I did not understand much - I think nothing - I need to know something'. Pappas: 'Let's talk. "SMS the previous one you received came out wrong. He's on his way to completion. Since yesterday you said this afternoon we'd talk about it. Because at seven I'm leaving to know something. Take care before I go let me know, 'cause if we don't talk, then we probably won't. I am sure, in other words, that there will be no result. The days have passed, so bail will not exist. You know, you decide. I say again: If we don't talk about it, it'll be Porto Heli." Grandpa: ‘Ok. We're talking before you leave at six.' Hot: "I'm waiting. Do I have to go through you at six o'clock, mate? To you or here?’ Poppas: "Wait a bit".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u30	What's the offence?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u31	Mr. Comrade, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u32	I'll tell you. Sit in the room for you to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u33	Mr. Comrade, continue, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u34	"Everything you say and when you say, as long as I leave you at seven." So this was the first SMS that Mr. Kalogritsa submitted, which was exchanged before Calogritsa met Summer of 'CC' in Porto Heli. What happened to Porto Heli? According to witness Kyriako Tobra, on August 16, 2016, Kalogericas met for the first time there with Summer Hurry. There, then, the witness testifies that while he went to recommend them and talk about the TV channel agreement, he stayed open with the mouth. Listen: There, then, he stayed open with his mouth. "When Summer Hurry didn't sit down and talk to us about the work, only he told us that everything is closed, it's done, we have a deal." I say: 'What agreement do you have?'. The gorgeous guy was laughing. I say to him, "What's your deal? Did you agree before we came here?' He says to me: “Let go. Others have spoken." He continues: "I was taken together for the eyes of the world, obviously. They both knew the job was closed." Kalogeritsas himself for this meeting submits: "In the summer of 2016 he called me my dear friend, Nikos Papapas, and says to me: "Captainni, will you continue to give us your name and what we ask of you if we put someone else in the canal company?". Grandpa says that. "There is exactly where he said to me: "There are some foreigners who are interested in participating in the channel too, who will put money, so it serves us. The channel will be ours." Since August, I have not yet met any of them, he called me: "I want to inform you to meet these people." Indeed, he called me, informed me and went to an appointment in Porto Heli where I met with some of them." In my question to the committee "when the Pope called you to tell you to meet, where did you see him?" the answer was: "With Papa we met everywhere." ‘Issuing?’. "With Papa, we were friends and I met him at his house, at my house, at my office, in Maximos. Mr. Poppa, I met him everywhere, in the taverns, everywhere, in my country house, in his country house. We met everywhere." "Were you, then, arranged to be on the other side of Porto Heli?" "Here, for the first time I met an entrepreneur and because Mr. Pappas had specific instructions, so what I should say was very little, I said these little, we gave our hands, we had a few drinks and some delicacies and we got up and left." And he continues: "In Arabic, Nikos Pappas sent me with specific orders. I went to Arabic." Question: 'What were the orders?' "What the Arab also told me there." Two witnesses, then, are tabling us - this is one incident - that, through the mediation of former Minister Nikolaos Papapas, the responsible Minister for the competition, who set up the competition for television licences, the agreement was concluded between Huri and Calogratsa. How is it possible for a Minister to arrange, in the light of an invitation to tender he has prepared, the cooperation of schemes to participate in the tender? So what was Mr. Pappa's role? Will anyone ever give an answer? Silence. We have not heard anything today either in the memorandum tabled by the committee. So here - why did my colleague ask SYRIZA - where is the offence? So here's the duty violation. And that's not all. Other information was submitted to committee by Mr Tobra that there was a meeting in Maximos, again with the Pope, where they were trying and looking for a solution of the Pope, Huri, Kalogris, on how the letter of guarantee will be lodged and how the 3 million will come. What is the Minister responsible for seeing them all? All right, he saw them all. We understand that to some extent. But he saw them, to see how the contest went, if there's any interest, etc. Has the Minister responsible had any work to arrange the way in which the schemes will be involved, how will they pay the guarantees, and how will the money come from abroad to Greece? And these were filed. Is she false? This question has never been answered either by Mr. Pappas or by anyone on the SYRIZA side. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that, as demonstrated by the Papagopoulos case and demonstrated by this case, SYRIZA in the government has been seeking to control, as is the case...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u35	Mr. Comrade, you need to close down slowly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u36	I will end in a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u37	One minute is too much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u38	That SYRIZA sought to check, as he has confessed, the joints of power, that is, the institutions, justice and the media. Fortunately for Greek society, the state, our political system, the institutions did not succeed. The claim that Mr. Pappas was supposed to be persecuted because he tried to put order in the media area is just a myth on which he and SYRIZA are investing. The goal was clear: it was the demolition of the media, the control of the information, the setting up of our own channels. Ladies and gentlemen, from the testimony of the witnesses and the other evidence submitted to the committee, there has been inconsistent evidence regarding the breach of duty on the part of the former Minister. There was even evidence of the execution of bribery, but because we felt responsible that it was not so strong that it would lead a former minister to the stand for a malicious act, so we were confined to our proposal to request the prosecution only of the breach of duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u39	Mr. Comrade, you need to close up, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u40	I shall conclude, Madam President. This is the only fact that proves that the majority and the committee are not occupied by some mania of persecution of their opponents, which we have seen in the case of persecution by SYRIZA against the former Prime Minister of the New Democracy, Antonis Samaras and his government officials who have been targeted. We have worked, as a committee, with a sense of responsibility, justice, impartially, without persecuting mums or obsessed with bicommunalism. For its part, the committee has brought to fruition and impartially the work that you have given it by prior decision in plenary session. We are now asking you, in accordance with the majority decision, to vote in favour of the conclusion which we are proposing and in this way to protect and safeguard democracy, the political world, our political system. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u41	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I would remind you that your speaking time is five minutes. There will be a relative tolerance, but please do not abuse. The SYRIZA Parliamentary spokesman, Mr Ragus, has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u42	Now we have reached the point, ladies and gentlemen, it seems to me - without brakes to move down the road, to refer to the media, i.e. to private companies, and to refer to them as if they were institutions, calling the institutions. The media are private companies, they are not institutions. And so your rapporteur, the President of the pre-inquiry, started a moment ago with this report coming down from the Step. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe this: it is indeed a very important meeting today, but it is no longer important for Nikos Pappa. Because for Nikos Pappas the importance here of this plenary session has in fact been eliminated on the basis of your final position. You have finished the importance of this meeting for Nikos Pappa with the findings you have presented, and I will then explain what I mean. But it is indeed a very crucial meeting in total for the country's political world, in my opinion, for the party system, for Parliament. In fact, the decision that you will make today as a majority will be a decision on whether to open Haul's bourgeoisie, whether to open the home door for the country's political system, whether to drive the country's party system without brakes on the cliff. Why? You also suggested with the assistance of the Change Movement that you decided to set up this pre-examination committee with a major key request, up to that time, that there should be pre-examination because there is in the middle the felony of corruption. What did you come to say at the end after the meetings of the preliminary examination committee? That this felony doesn't exist for Nikos Pappa. And how did you say that through the finding you testified? By saying that from all the evidence - I read the finding submitted by the New Democracy - it appears that the EUR 3 million requested and finally granted concerned the participation of the company itself 'CCC' in the tendering exercise of television licences. The same reasoning shows that both money or channel shares requested by other operators concerned the same participation directly or through loan to the project, i.e. the same. What do you say, in fact, yourself with your findings? That all this conversation he's having and doing and that each Kalogerica will possibly continue to make is a conversation - part of his business plan, his business game. And where did you end up? You concluded that this felony is not standing. Why, because you're so excited? Why, aren't you like us? Why, aren't you like the others? Why are you those who respect the law, the Constitution and the political opponents? Halima's fairy tales. Why didn't you dare, after the Bank of Greece's finding, you dare come here and say, "I'm sending the Pope for a bribery felony." Because, as we said to you - and I was the first to put it in the first plenary - 'Open the accounts of Caloris' and the Bank of Greece opened them up and found out that the money, as we said at the time - I will not say words that he insulated them - was 'alternated' by Caloris! But what did the gorgeous boy say? "I didn't get it, it was part of the plan, part of the bribery, and since they didn't go for permission I gave it to "DOCUMENTO". And what proved to be the conclusion of the Bank of Greece? That he "finded" them and even used them to pay for specific, undeniable tax and other obligations of the company "TOXOTIS". That is why the debate has collapsed on the crime and crime of corruption by you, not because you are what you unfortunately want to appear. I say 'unfortunately' because I wish you were. And at this point I would like to go down our thinking a little, please, ladies and gentlemen. What does it mean that the debate on a coup d'état collapsed? What does it mean? That Nikos Pappas only has one offense to burden him with which you will refer him, if you refer him in the evening? Of course not. It means something much more serious, it means something much more important. Why was the bribery charge? It was all the nucleus, the whole body of the public placement Calogritsa and his statements on this case. So, in fact, in the collapse of the debate on the crime of bribery he himself collapsed as credibility, because that was his main claim. So it didn't just collapse a crime, the branch collapsed on which you sat since you set up this pre-request committee. And that's what you had to admit. You said: 'We have no evidence, we have no evidence'. The Bank of Greece came to us, crushed them, and all that could be flammable was circulated and you ended up saying: "So the offense is not standing." However, once the offense, in fact repeating, collapsed the whole thing, in fact, of what you were relying on, which was nothing but one of the following, Mr Kalogritsa, and what he sometimes claimed. I mean, in short, you yourself are saying that the Calagrissa lied, he's a liar. You who are using Kalogerica - I will say after the breach of duty - accept that he lied, because if he had told the truth, that truth should have been confirmed by the Bank of Greece. However, the Bank of Greece has denounced Kalogrisa. So, what did the gorgeous guy do? He lied. And that's what you say, he's a liar. What is left of it, ladies and gentlemen? The offense remains, the offense of breach of duty. Nikos Papas told you, and Nikos Voutsis told you: There is - why have you become a SMS party now - a SMS that you can invoke and combine it with any administrative act, administrative decision, signature, change of legislation, change of framework of competition and say: ‘Come here to see, you see this SMS? There it is. What was the case before the Minister's decision? The alpha. What happened under the law? Alpha. After SMS, did alpha become alpha plus or alpha other than? The law became alpha plus alpha other than?’ Do you have that possibility? You do not have it, because there was no administrative act, a legislative initiative which you can combine with these SMSs in order to be able to support, as I understand it, the whole legal world of the country, the offence of breach of duty. Because the offence of violating duty, as you know better than me, you are legal, cannot be strictly combined, typically with specific, clear administrative or legal acts. It is not a breach of duty for a public official to do the general blah - or the interpretation that a reporter can give about what is a breach of duty. Failure to fulfil obligations means: 'I have this decision and I am changing it, because there is this feasibility or why this SMS has been mediated'. Was there any such change? Nowhere, nothing. But that is not the most serious thing, and I would not go up to this step above all to stand up to this argument. Why? Because in reality, by opening this debate, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, you are literally doing something much worse than what you are trying against Nikos Pappas. You are actually setting out the whole political world, so also yourself, and your ministers today in this unacceptable and unprecedented time-consuming country's political approach to what Article 86 of the Constitution means, the responsibility of the ministers, a special court, a pre-review committee. To come here today I really wished and wondered, to see a little, regardless of the outcome of each court, whether it was set up or not, for all the cases that were referred to by politicians since 1974 and then, if there was one in the history that was understood, it has daring a parliamentary majority since 1974 and then only referred a Minister for the violation of duty. Here's the list, I'll testify to him.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u43	Mr. Papaconstantinou was convicted of violating duty.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u44	Leave it because it was convicted, Mr. Plearis. Right now you're not a court and you're not condemning right now, you're a parliament and you're referring back.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u45	He's misunderstood.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u46	And you refer for a job violation for the first time in history a former minister when...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u47	And he was convicted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u48	Listen. When in the case of Mr. Papagelopoulos, I repeat, all this is independent of what is and what is not the case and what is the verdict of justice...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u49	Ladies and gentlemen, please be quiet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u50	Why are you upset, why are you upset? You'll get them, and if that's not the case, you'll deny them. Why are you upset? Why are you confronted with your choices? Listen to me, Mr. Plori, my claim. My claim is not that no one was convicted of breach of duty, that it was not referred back. The majority did not dare to refer to a duty violation alone.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u51	Convicted Mr....
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u52	Papaggelopoulos, indictment of eight offenses...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u53	And violation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u54	And a violation, but for eight, Mr. Plearis. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] So it disturbs you, gentlemen of the New Democracy. I see now why this argument is bothering you, because you may have assumed what follows from this argument. Listen to it, please. Vulgarakis, for a crime involving the place you had. Papaconstantinou - because you mentioned it - infidelity about the service to a degree of misdemeanor, document frustration and breach of duty to a degree of misdemeanor. Dukes - Bassiakos - Near, moral automobile and co-insurance in the offence of infidelity, Mr. Plori, on the service against the public. Scandal Koskotas, in 1989, moral automobile in infidelity and passive bribery, infidelity about the service, breach of duty because one of the indictees of the Bank of Crete did not take action at that time and infidelity about the service and bribery. That's the story. Do you know what this story looks like? That you're the first to open the door to the madhouse.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u55	Mr. Comrade, please complete.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u56	I will not be late, Madam President, for one or two more minutes. Do you know how many of your ministers have committed how many duty violations? Do you want to start mentioning them to add them to what Nikos Pappas and Nikos Voutsis said? What if it is not a breach of duty when a contract is concluded to provide the personal data of the Greek citizens with CISCO, without the contract ever coming to the Greek Parliament? What is it if it is not a breach of duty to conclude a contract by Mr. Pierakakis or Mrs. Kerameos to do the same job with CISCO and give the personal data. Keyboard, cases infinite. And the worst you're doing: How many businessmen in the country, Mr. Ploir, do they have SMSs from Ministers, Prime Minister, MPs and officials of the New Democracy in their hands? How many of them are you currently making a position to you and thus to the party system blackmailing it on the basis of SMS, such as every Kalogerica, whom you are honoring the political life of the place, without, I repeat, substantiating either the offence of bribery or the act of changing legislation.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u57	You're done, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u58	I'm closing up, Madam President-in-Office.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u59	You've had ten minutes and you're almost fourteen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u60	So I'll finish with this. He's not Mr. Russopoulos in the Chamber, but it's okay. There are - and Nikos Voutsis has told you - political disagreements, and on politics we can eternally disagree. But it is also political confrontation and criminalisation of the country's political life. And because - I will say this very explicitly and very emphatically - we are not all the same in politics. It's true. We're not all sluts in politics. We did not enter politics to send our political opponents to the special courts, we entered to defeat them. We have come in for our views to prevail on them.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u61	...Pastaurus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u62	Ladies and gentlemen, please! Mr Colleague, you must finish, please very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u63	And when, Mr. Marcopoulou...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u64	Mr. Comrade, you need to close up, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u65	I'm going to tell you a personal story, because someone can tell, as you said last time that Raguss says it, because he's at SYRIZA and defends the Pope.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u66	Mr. Colleague, you have to finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u67	I shall conclude, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u68	But you have to finish it. You've had ten minutes and you've been in 15. There are rules here in the House. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u69	Just a minute, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u70	For ten minutes, you've been saying a minute and you've been 15. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u71	Good, not a minute, and I'm done. So I was telling you that we have not entered the political life of the place to be chasing our political opponents and, above all, to sit at the Special Court's stand and one of the top moments, which, at least, I was able to live and to prove what one might say that I am saying all this because I am with Nikos Pappa in the same party today, it was when the case of the Baptist was here, ladies and gentlemen, and your colleagues, Mr Rusopoulos, and we did not lead him to the Special Court, and I was one of them - even though I was a Secretary of the PASOK at that time - who I did not vote for his referral, because that was what my conscience imposed. Because it's another thing about political disagreement and political conflict and the decision to make a man and send him to the Special Court. When you do that, you represent...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u72	Mr. Colleague, allow me, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u73	Madam President, you want me to tell you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u74	Well, that's disrespectful, I'm so sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u75	As a parliamentary representative, I have not exceeded...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u76	You've got ten minutes and you know it all along. Ten minutes, you all know it. Parliamentary representatives, five colleagues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u77	Yeah, but you know...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u78	You've already reached sixteen, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u79	Let me clarify...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u80	You're not clarifying anything to me, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u81	...that the predecessor in the Chair who climbed...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u82	And what does that mean, Mr. Comrade? I've explained that there will be no tolerance more than normal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u83	He had announced that there would be a possibility for all the speakers...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u84	I've already given you six minutes' time. It's almost double the time, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u85	I'd be done already.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u86	But you keep telling me one minute and one minute it's five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u87	Now I mean it and if you remove the vacations and we're there.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u88	Mr Colleagues, I think this is ironic in the Bureau what you are doing at the moment. I would ask you very much to close with only one word.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u89	I won't close with one word, one phrase...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u90	With one word you'll only close with one word. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u91	He was constantly interrupted, Madam President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u92	I close with the following phrase. Unfortunately, the poor Right of Mr. Mitsotakis is here again today. I hope and hope that, in fact, the consciousness of the New Democracy and the Change Movement will be here today. We'll see about it tonight. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u93	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Ladies and gentlemen, I repeat, the time of the parliamentary representatives is ten minutes and five colleagues and there will be a relative tolerance. Please don't embarrass me. Mr. Katsis has the floor for five minutes from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u94	Thank you, Madam President. And not only SMS in ministerial and mobile phones and in Pakistani phones, Mr. Ragosi, if he speaks. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I am going straight to the point of order, on the agenda, on this conclusion of the pre-inquiry for Nikos Pappas, which you are bringing to plenary today, only so that you do not have to complete the greatest political perception within this House that has ever taken place in political history, that is to say, completely withdraw the indictment you have made on both the charge of the violation of duty and the charge of bribery. With the votes of the New Democracy MPs, Nikos Papapas is not even charged with bribery in the competition for television licences. The self-evident thing we were talking about from the start, as the public received money from this process, did not lose money. Do you know what that means, ladies and gentlemen? All the publications, the mud in the TV panels, the biased reports and the announcements of the New Democracy Press Office for the gorgeousness went to the owl, in the bucket of unusables. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You set them up, you take them back, after you were head-to-head with the truth, which is a shameful element of pre-interrogative. This can be a rightful moral and politics, both for SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance collectively and for Nikos Pappa individually. However, as a saying says, before the truth wears its pants, the lie has turned around the world. What do I mean by that? The news, the mud thrown in tune by the proneo-democratic propaganda by SYRIZA and Nikos Pappas for Kalogritsa, the competition for channel permits and suspicions of money laundering, played everywhere, two years now. It has come to every ear, every citizen in this country, dealing or not with politics. The news, however, that in the end the prosecutors in this case found no evidence and took the charges back was not played anywhere. He was buried in coordination and studied. And I ask: The moral harm and the slander of who will restore it and in what way? Shouldn't you, even once, ask for an apology openly and boldly? And the only practical apology as elementary self-respect, but also respect for the democratic community, would be the complete withdrawal of the indictment. You have taken the bribery charge back for the benefit of a third party in your finding and only recommend the reference to a breach of duty, which is a crime and not a felony and is punished by a penalty. You explain your proposal on the grounds that the former Minister violated his duties. I read: "...in order to join both the SYRIZA party, the same party, and Mr Kalogrica illegally gaining a television licence and harming all the others who participated in the competition, as well as the state." In fact, let's go see the duty violation. I speed up facts, not speculation. First, Mr. Kalogeritsa didn't get a channel because he was cut off by the terms of the competition that we put in. So your accusation that he went to give Calograzza a channel and that he'd give the channel is totally ridiculous. It is therefore a case of intent and not a matter of fact. Secondly, Mr. Kalogris was no one's front. Fronts don't put money. They're signing up for others. He admitted in the pre-examination document that he put 14.5 million. There goes that argument too. Thirdly, Mr. Kalogritsa was appointed a temporary successful television licence tenderer, but in the finals he was cut, due to the provisions of the law. If we wanted to give him a channel, Nikos Pappas would break a duty and immediately announce the final successful ones at a single stage rather than a temporary one. He didn't. There goes that argument too. Most importantly, it's all done with the supreme court booze. Nikos brought a mountain here with decisions of the Council of State. They have all appealed against everyone and they have all fallen into the Council of State, because the competition has been made on equal terms. The tens of objections said: 'Continue the competition'. Here, let me note that it is disgraceful and unfair that Leuteris Kretsos is still being sued, but also the officials of the Secretariat-General for Information and Communication, because they have done their duty legally. The maintenance of the "Greek" maintains this suffering. Although, despite the unscrupulous events, refer Nikos Pappa to a duty violation, it is evidently certain that he will be acquitted with him and everyone else. Conclusion: Nikos Pappas is not referred to as a violation of duty, but precisely because he did his duty, a task that no one's predecessor dared to do at the expense of political costs. He did his duty when the Greek people suffered from the bankruptcy cuts that you led the country and saw the few and strong not to pay their debts. And I ask: If Nikos Pappas has violated his duties, the respective ministers of the previous governments have done what? [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I would like your tolerance for a minute. What offence should his predecessors be persecuted for, not collecting such sums and illegally? His successors, Mr Petsas and Mr Lebanese, who gave the 3.5 million dose and clearly gave tens of millions on the channels, what offence should they be prosecuted for? Should they be persecuted for a high sense of duty, the duty to serve the interlocutory, which you owe her and owe you? But the world is not dull, as you think, and it sees and judges. I close with this: We understand - we are not naive - that the complexion with the arm of Mr Mitsotakis' New Democracy wants to send a message: No one puts it with us. And whoever thinks about it, see what happens to him, whether it's his fault or not. So I call on you all to trust your judgment and not to put your name on the rape of reasoning for a charge that is not standing and will certainly be suppressed in court. Mr Mitsotakis who governs the country with whip and carrot in all directions, even in his own direction, the party, as he has said, must be defeated along with his own regimen practices. When a Prime Minister is inaugurated with evidence that he submits a false statement "from where you come" and, instead of responding with evidence, he has his party press office unleashing threats against the newspaper that revealed it, saying he will be in trouble in today's pre-inquiry, he must be defeated. And it will be defeated. The 3 million ended up in Mr. Kalogrisa's pockets, according to the Bank of Greece and your conclusion. They did not end up with any Pope, no 'DOCUMENTO'. Now, now, answer something so serious that in any European country it would be due to the fall of a government. We will be here defending justice and democracy. And as our President, Alexis Tsipras, from Thessaloniki, said, we treat you with faces clearly as the most proven honest government that passed through this country. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u95	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Markopoulos has the floor from New Democracy for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, some people said when they were in PASOK that they would have bad luck for those who work in a non-transparent way to privatize television licences. Other proposals for exams such as the 'SIEMENS', the Vatopod, the bonds, are forgotten for the stock market. And I mention it because at the moment some people are saying that in those years there was no climate of persecution. On the other hand, we listened nicely to Mr. Pappas as a commentator. He was an excellent commentator of the various views heard. But we haven't got any answers. Unfortunately, he didn't honor us to ask him. You need political courage to come and ask your colleagues when your party had set up several such committees. He did not come to ask him, for example, if he had the political courage to present himself to our committee, how many sms he sent and accepted, and what was his relationship with Mr. Kalogritsa. Was he sleeping or not at his house? Was it a spec of Mr. Kaloger's? To tell us if he knew about the virtualities of the contracts and to tell us if he met, how and what, Mr. Kalogerica and Mr. Huri at the Maximos Concert Hall. To tell us why he confined television licenses to just four. Look, if today's historic left leader Elias Eliou, who had said the famous "we will upset you in legitimacy", I think he would be ashamed today. And he would be ashamed, because his political children are now celebrating, master of Alexis Tsipras, for the illegality. "Why is the world happy and smiling, Father?" I mean your world on the left. Are you celebrating, rejoicing, because there has been sufficient evidence that the violation of duty has been committed? Bravo! That's a great reaction. You're talking about victory and justice when your Minister responsible for the television competition coordinated the contacts of Christus Kalogerica, as we saw through the evidence? Is it to enchant all of them who wanted to build a "SYRIZA Channel" for virtual transactions? Is it possible to celebrate - the white and uninfected on the Left - for all this 'CC GROUP' and 'TOXO'? And finally, what was the role of expediting, for this competition, the Minister responsible for a competition for television licences? Was he going to make backs and contacts and press down? Was he gonna ask Marinakis for things? Was he looking for business with businessmen? Was he going to organize newspapers aimed at political opponents and their wives? Nice left to fix! Good legality you have respected! That's why I'm telling you the bones of Elias are trembling. I hear you lately also celebrate our choice as a majority, not to promote the referral to the Special Court of Nikos Pappas for the offence of corruption. This is a tactic,'swallowed by his hair'. I also said this from the Step of the House during the plenary debate whether or not this case will be referred back to pre-inquiry. We didn't want a rematch. Do you know why we didn't want her? Because we're not the same as you. We did not go with zeros and funny evidence to blame two former Prime Ministers and eight top politicians. We did not set up a NOVARTIS scandal, which, with a world patent from a medical scandal, you made it political, to have personal political benefits, you, who did not ask for compensation from NOVARTIS. So you're talking to us and pulling our fingers on something you didn't do. Yes, we have the political glimpse where there has been simple and not sufficient evidence to prosecute criminally for bribery not to move like you. So we are not - Alexis Tsipras was right - made of the same material. We're from very different material than you. Will you apologize to Papastavros or will you, as you have shown for many days, political cowardice? Will you ask for an apology to the ten political top persons you accused without evidence? So I turn around and tell you about this whole situation: we are not the same. We're not like you. We're obviously not like you. Mr. Tsipras said in February 2018: does not there exist political responsibility? Political responsibility for this disgrace with television licences is not there? You went to set up - and the Council of your State has turned it - with only four television licences a new television set, which runs in democracy. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Madam President, I will need one, two minutes and I will finish. And what really happened? A best friend, one of your flesh to create "SYRIZA Channel". In closing, I would like to say something about Christos Kalogerica, which has not been heard so far. Look, Calogritsa chose to say a few, keep a lot inside. It proved flesh from your flesh. You're the same. You found him, but you're the same. Some commented on the fact that they personally learned and pushed him to say more. Do you know why I pushed him to say more? Because I knew. I was seeing that he was speaking selectively. And the fact that with his vaccination he won fourteen days - fourteen days! - Looks like a lot's changed. We don't know what communications happened. Obviously, they didn't happen from us. We wanted everything in the light. In these days before Easter, invoked by Mr. Kalogrits' vaccination and disease, a lot has been played because, badly lies, left water cannot be done! Relationships are too many! Mr. Kaloggitsa, I don't know if he'll get what he knows. You know, he had a nice move. He had taken a hundred and fifty pages, counting them. It was, it says, the messages he had with Mr. Poppa. I don't know if these -- because they're even at a great age -- they'll get it in his head, if they'll probably get it tomorrow even in his grave. I wouldn't want the man, obviously, to get hurt. Let it be. We therefore support the reference made by the Pappas Nikos to elements intactly, we support the referral to Karabinatis - Karabinatis! - breach of duty, which was intended to ride the media and at the end - most important! - to travel and manipulate the Hellenic Republic. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Now Mr Ilhan Ahmet has the floor from the Change Movement for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Madam President. Ladies and gentlemen, we now come to the end of a process which certainly brought together the interest of all Greek citizens, at the end of which, of course, a little hasty after the work of the committee has been interrupted abruptly and surprisingly with the arrow - an arable closure of the witness list, with what this entails, of course, for the complete revelation of the truth. We in the Change Movement are not celebrating today because everything that we have shown has been confirmed and we have already supported since the critical months of 2016. And how could one celebrate when, behind the charming phrase'renewal of the broadcasting landscape', which was then used so much by the former Minister, Mr Papa, there was only the intention of gaining control of an information instrument from the SYRIZA - ANEL Government against an obvious violation of its ministerial duties? How to celebrate when the elected government has attempted to influence media pluralism and thus the functioning of the organised state? How to celebrate when the then Minister of State, who was responsible for safeguarding the transparency of the competitive process and the purity of competition, attempted to distort and manipulate the whole process? I shall therefore say that, unfortunately, today, there are very serious indications from the outset to the end for the former Minister of State in the whole process resulting from documents, messages, SMS, e-mails and testimonials. It is clear that the aim was not, in the end, to reorganise the broadcasting landscape. And that's in any case sad. We as a Change Movement already since the plenary session on the establishment of the committee have clarified our intentions for a full and in-depth investigation of the case, without reservations, settling out and compromises. We are asking for everything to come to light in order to emit a strong message against any past or continuing other way of trying to control media. And let the court decide, after all, whether he's innocent or if he has actually committed some crimes of a delinquent nature. At this point, however, Madam President, I would like to respond to an unacceptable position from yesterday's Step by Mr Velopoulos for me personally and for a colleague from SYRIZA, Mr Hussein Zabeck. Mr. Velopoulou, you said a great lie yesterday and I invite you to apologize now. You said that I, along with my colleague, were shouting in favour of a foreign country at the Xanthi PD gathering. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not receive patriotism lessons from anyone, particularly from Mr Velopoulos. That's enough mud in the minority. That is enough mud to the elected representatives of the Greek people. The patriotocaust of time has been the passport of division to exterminate political opponents. The minority in Thrace is the victim of political fraud, division. The right to self-determination of Greek citizens is guaranteed in our country and is not called into question, nor is the definition of a minority as referred to in the Losan Treaty. He was not questioned and is not questioned. Democracy is neither afraid of minorities nor of the different. We are proud and proud to represent and represent this part of our society in Parliament. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Mr Bartzokas from New Democracy has the floor for five minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Madam President. About three months ago and during the debate on the setting up of this committee for a preliminary examination to investigate criminal offences by the former Minister of State Mr. Nikos Pappas, the Civic Opposition tried to discredit the institutional process in advance using a very tough reason. She talked about mud, about "Mitsotakis status", about political revenge as if she saw herself in the mirror. He said that, with the proposal to set up this committee, the government is trying to escape and change an agenda. He said that Parliament was dragged into a farce, forgetting that this process was driven by the case - fiasco of television licences, for which the country was discussed negatively in an international environment, indeed. It has thus reappointed Greek justice once again, because it has deliberately refrained from saying that the proposal was not made vacant. The case-file in the case of television licences and the handling of Mr. Papapas was sent to Parliament by the prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the House was required to examine whether any offences and any criminal liability were well founded. The committee, which I had the honour of being a secretary, worked unnecessarily all these months. Despite efforts systematically resorting to members of the Civic Opposition, in order to sabotage its objectivity and obligation to reach the truth, it has recently completed its work responsibly and institutionally. The majority proposal is clear and substantiated. From the evidence gathered and the testimony of the witnesses, the bucket was slowly unfolded and the king's nakedness and the political wrangling of the former Minister and top executive of today's Officerial Response was revealed. Mr. Pappas, according to the conclusion, as a media minister and the competition for television licences in 2016, following back-track methods, has infringed his ministerial duties in order to qualify for illegal benefits. First of all, as shown by the evidence, he asked Mr. Kalogrisa to participate in the television competition as a virtual owner in order to obtain a licence in order to create a television channel fully controlled by SYRIZA. Furthermore, it comes from testimony and messages exchanges that he mediated and contacted the foreign company 'CCC', so that Mr Kaloggritsa received the necessary amount of the guarantee letter of EUR 3 million in order to be able to participate in a tender. Thus, it diverted the institutional validity of the tender, because, despite the fact that it was fully aware of the virtuality of the contracts, it covered this virtuality, as it covered the existence of an obsolete partner in the participation of Kalogrica and in the television licenses of the foreign company ‘CC’, which were legally prohibited to participate in contravention of the terms and conditions of competition that he had chosen as Minister to clarify the television scene. However, during the control of the "outside" it allowed a virtual estimate of the real estate pastures and continued to coordinate the dark "take" of all the involved. It systematically altered the competition of the television competition by giving information to Mr Kalogritsa on the amounts to be paid by the other participants. Furthermore, the evidence and other evidence submitted to the committee shows that the Minister sought, among other things, the spiral of the purely family circle of prominent political persons in an attempt to bring them to an end, including the wife of the current Prime Minister. The evidence that has arisen is therefore a lot and the evidence that the violation of duty has been committed is sufficient and serious. There is an exchange of messages between Mr Papapas himself and Mr Kalogritsa, in which the role of the first and the moderation of the whole process is reflected. There are testimonies beyond Mr. Kalogratsa, such as Mr. Tobra for priorly closed agreements on the ground. There are emails that expressly refer to the then government called "White House", i.e. Maximos. There are testimonies for meetings in Maximos with Mr Papapas and for a struggling effort to issue a guarantee letter and transfer the amount of EUR 3 million directly and in every way. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] There is also evidence and evidence of virtuality of contracts between Kalogrisa and the foreign company ‘CCC’ intended to participate in the competition of television licences. Finally, there are reports from other persons, such as Mr Marinakis and Mr Kontomenas, that they were asked by Mr Papapas himself to finance Mr. Kalogrisa's participation in the competition for television licences and remains of evidence. So who could close eyes to all this and not go to the case? There was, of course, no denial on all of this. It is noteworthy that the main protagonist, Mr. Pappas, has chosen to shine through his absence throughout the entire time that the pre-inquiry procedures were conducted. Throughout the Committee's work, he did not appear to be able to answer the irreversible questions which were raised, but rather he chose, as he did, to put his positions through a memorial. It's turning through the engagement. All of this, which I mentioned briefly, is some of the things that fully compose the underground way that the former Minister has acted in order to put the shop together, an ex-institutional mechanism which would alter the pluralism, impartiality and objectivity of the information. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] But the truth was revealed. The evidence of criminal responsibilities by the Minister is now a strong presumption and the reason we have to do so is our obligation to go to Greek justice. It is a national obligation to consider the truth national, to fight for it and to defend it at every price. Today's sitting gives us the opportunity to prove that we are not only interested in uncovering the lie, but instead we are interested in raising the truth and raising its defence to the highest standards.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u101	Please, please, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u102	I shall conclude, Mr President. And the truth is that the manner in which Mr Pappas has been substantiated in the committee means both that there is a criminal prosecution against him for the offence of the violation of duty by a slash and on a continuous basis and that there is a need to forward the findings to the prosecutor and the authorities responsible for investigating the case 'DOCUMENTO'. In conclusion, I only say that we have a duty to do our duty and to vote in favour of Mr Pappas's reference to Greek justice. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, too. Good afternoon, too. Those who saw Apostle Avdela and you said "oh, he tolerates etc., we'll take any eight minutes, nine minutes", get it out of your mind. I'm in a very difficult position. You'll get five minutes, six minutes heavy, heavy. I'm in all the good mood. First respect the colleagues who are waiting to talk to me. Parliamentary spokesman of the Change Movement, Mr Constantine Scandalides, has the floor for ten minutes. I told you that because good accounts make good friends! And we're good friends!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u104	I, Mr President, am always very wise.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u105	You're always wise. And Mrs. Evgiris always is! Here, Mr. Scandalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u106	Ladies and gentlemen, this is the last time I have been in such a process. I will not go far, but before I get to the bottom of it, I would like to make a few comments which I consider to be very important for the course of politics and the national Parliament. The right of citizens to know the truth, to the transparent state of politics, to good administration of power, to a consistent defence of public interest is inalienable and must be inviolable. Secondly, the role of the media in modern democracy has highlighted the famous 'Bermuda Triangle' of politics, the triangle economic power - political power - power to information which, with today's compromise of interests and for many years now shows as a major problem of our time the problem of the modern Parliamentary Republic. Thirdly, since my long experience, moral advantage or immoral disadvantage are neither a privilege nor a condemnation of any party. No one can invoke it for herself as a moral advantage or for her opponent as a corresponding condemnation. The route of post-multiplation as a whole dematerialized all concepts of collective responsibility, especially since the national pie grew, the resources grew in our country and the media became literally the shapers and manipulators of the public opinion and the public system. This has become a catastrophic thing, and it would be good not to invoke any of it against the other. Fourthly, the attitude of the parties towards the phenomenon has been different in the same period. I would remind you that the authority of the PASOK in 1989 in a semester had been corrupted and devastated by the media chord. SYRIZA's authority proved to be able to manipulate the competition for licenses. The authority of the New Democracy today attempts to organize a communication "imperium" through specific economic centres and not just towards the means themselves. Fifthly, the parties' attitude to corruption and transparency and dealing with them was also different. All the way from 1989 to now, we supported the policy of 'all in light'. We've removed our own executives in charge until they've been vindicated or sentenced. The main thing is that we have established a framework of transparency - even if not complete, I recognise it - for the real problem to be tackled so that the phenomenon cannot be reproduced. Finally, and today we have tabled concrete proposals for citizens' objective and pluralist information, for the support, independence and emancipation of the instruments, and in the revision procedures of the Constitution we have proposed more radical solutions than the other parties. A series of institutional initiatives for the Independent Authority of the PSE, the Constitutional Arrangement of 2001, the Financial Prosecutor, the Anti-Fraud Authority and so many other reforms have shown on the one hand our self-criticism about the abuses of our own power - to say so very clearly - and on the other hand our will and our identity to shield democracy with transparency institutions. That is why we are proud of the fact that we are talking about these issues, despite the accusations we have had about the past. I come to this particular matter. I want to make it quite clear that not only for reasons of principle and justice, but also for reasons of personal idiosyncrasy, the right of every citizen or politician to defend his innocence is inalienable and sacred. No condemnation is permitted in advance, especially when we have witnessed the break-up of persons who the vulgar media titles have dropped to Kaidas and when their justice was innocent, no one has been informed of their restoration. This dark side of the political system that had to heal it, we didn't see it. I listened very carefully to Nikos Papapas, and I would like to ask him straight away: would he make the same speech in the construction against ten political persons directed by the SYRIZA Government for "NOVARTIS", who has been passionately defending their innocence and the lack of any degrading element? Instead, he passionately defended their guilt. It's hypocrisy in all her majesty. I ask this: is there a Greek citizen who is conscious of the lack and of the slightest feasibility in directing and carrying out the task of the competition? I would refer you to the atmosphere at that time. That's the point of retrospectively revealing the evidence that came to publicity. The fact that there was manipulation and coordination by the person responsible for guaranteeing the procedure seemed to be almost self-proof. The House had to look for responsibilities and truth. It was right to shed light on the case. I would like to ask why, while the committee was investigating the case in the middle of conflicting positions, complaints of evidence, of existence and of unanswered questions, it suddenly ceased its work without explanation, without any real reason being able to intervene? The Committee has now adopted a conclusion without sufficient justification. What happened? What was agreed? What did he mediate? This concerns the Government of the New Democracy, which had to explain why it has interrupted the work of the committee. He had a great deal of duty and, unfortunately, he's not here to hear it. After the conclusion was issued, the New Democracy and SYRIZA appear justified and celebrated, one for the petition, the other for acquittal. I ask: Do you consider the violation of a duty a small person and a right to effective acquittal if it proves to be an acquittal after the finding, you say, acquits the case? The criminal offences, particularly when it comes to the substance of democracy, the independence of the media, pluralism and transparency, are not put into balance for politicians and politicians. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Two minutes, Mr. President. Ladies and gentlemen, only in answer to these questions would justice have to investigate not only the categories of the finding, but also those of co-determination in the functioning of the parliamentary committee. That is why our resignation has submitted its proposal, in accordance with Article 86(3) of the Constitution and Article 5(4) of Law 3126 and on the basis of what has been said and analysed. We therefore have the opinion and propose, firstly, that the former Minister of State should prosecute the ex-Secretary of State for the offence of forced and continuing duty, that the competent judicial authorities continue to investigate in law any other criminal offences by political or non-persons, that the findings of the committee be announced, as well as all the information and information gathered in the course of its work in the Prosecutor's Office and the Head of the Prosecutor's Office of Athens and that the findings of the Committee be announced, as well as all information and information collected in the Anti-Counterfeiting Authority by Criminal Activities. I shall also make a point, ladies and gentlemen, which I think is necessary. I joined the House for the first time in June 1989. My virgin speech was the next day of the murder of Paul Bakoyannis and my first political confrontation, dramatic and difficult, was with Leonidas Kyrkos. That was my first experience, then. I have lived for thirty years since then, and I have had a firm position. It did not dare the political system to tackle institutionally the pathogenicity that it itself caused the management of power, to go beyond itself and to guarantee democracy. It has always been subjected to party feasibility and government arbitrary. In the spirit of these interests, the government should raise the issue of democracy again, so that the Greek Parliament can discuss it again and make final decisions on institutions that do not replicate the problem, not that one government would come to blame the other for real or fantastic mismanagement. Democracy is the time to solve its structural problems. If something teaches us today's debate, like so many others I am tired of following them, is to discuss once again what needs to be done so that there are no such phenomena again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u107	Thank you very much, Mr Scandalidis. Mr Dimitris Janakopoulos has the floor now from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the last thing I would like to do today would be to compare myself to Mr Scandalides who was speaking a moment ago. But I have to give an answer, because ethics is not politics. Since 1989, when private television stations first operated temporary licences until 2016, when the competition was conducted, Mr. Scandalidis, PASOK in one way or another was found in government power for 15, 16 years. And at no time did he dare to bring law or implement a competition for television licences. So I think it is a bit too much to ask for today and the change from SYRIZA. At the same time - the former President of Parliament told you - you participated in the government of Papademos, which changed the pattern of previous governments with the "prolongations of the royal pie", which Nikos the Pope said. At 31 December each year, we also had a new extension of the provisional licence for television stations. And what did you do as shareholders in the Papademos government? You gave the television stations an indefinite license despite the six decisions of the Council of State which characterised this practice as completely illegal and unconstitutional. So I would say that it goes a little too far to ask for the change. Ladies and gentlemen, I think we are all in this Chamber convinced and convinced that this process was, is, is and will continue to be a travesty, a prank, which actually degrades the Parliamentary Republic itself and is the lure of a New Democracy secretariat and of Mr Mitsotakis himself and inner-party friends - in in introductory forms - and of course in the mid-term of the country. Mostly, however, it humiliates the New Democracy Parliamentary Group itself, which a few months ago in this Chamber voted in favour of an indictment which was allegedly bribery by the then Minister of the Nikos Pappas. And you're coming here today and on your own, you're dropping this indictment. So you know what you're doing with this assumption? Do you turn your key witness yourself, Mr. Kalogritsa, into a fully unreliable witness, because when you say that Mr. Kalogritsa's testimony cannot support even evidence of guilt for the offence of bribery, how can you say exactly the opposite to the issue of the breach of duty? I'll see you later. And I ask you: will you even request an apology from Nikos Pappas for mud, for slander, for lies, for guided publications that for five years have been talking about the supposed bribery that you come now and withdraw from your indictment? An apology. You don't have the courage to ask for an apology. So, what's left in this gross indictment? A fig leaf, a breach of duty. I don't have the time - I'm already talking four and a half minutes - to speak legally. I'll just say one sentence. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, I am speaking to those of you who are legal, but also to those who are not to clarify - it is necessary to have a specific service with which they are threatened in concreto, namely, to harm public interests or to legal goods or to benefit from the service provider or a third party. Is there even half a reference to such an act in your indictment? Oh, no. Rumors, supposed testimonies. From there on, there is no specific service act. The same to prevent you from being humiliated, therefore, simply turning the indictment into an indictment for a mere violation of duty, you will mobilise an entire judicial procedure - interrogators, judiciary councils, etc. - to lead us sometime to an exculpatory adjunct and end this whole pragmy in the way it suits us, that is, the discharge of Nikos Pappas. And allow me, it takes a little nerve to talk about the riding of democracy you, who have degenerated every democratic institution, have degenerated Parliament itself, have turned the mediation system into a lyvanizing mechanism of Mr Mitsotakis. All day, on all channels, on all radio stations, on all online media what we are watching - speak to society a little - has not happened for forty-five years. You who are targeting journalists because they have the courage to follow their obligation to carry out their duties and move on to reports revealing illegal acts of Mr Mitsotakis himself, you who, instead of using the 40, 50 million that you have given to the media for a year and a year to campaign for the vaccination, are actually using them, are you using them to inspire the absolute immunization regime in all the media, do you dare to talk about riding democracy? The damage you have done to democracy in the two years of your governance is such that it will take too long to correct. So I would say that you should be a little more careful of your words, because today you may be with the power of the parliamentary majority, but tomorrow you will not be there. And you know, society should be for those who go into the Ministries and the Maximos Mansion. Boa. I would therefore ask you to keep the letters a little low, because things will become extremely difficult in the next few years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u109	Thank you. Mr Angelos Tsigris has the floor from the New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, political interventions in the competition for television licences and the attempt to manipulate and control the media had been denounced institutionally and since the beginning of the New Democracy, and even since it was the Anti-Civilisation. And if you remember well, then we already said that if there are any unjust acts that have been committed, they will be checked. We are therefore discussing today a decision on the proposal by a majority of the Special Parliamentary Committee to carry out the violation of a power of mass and continuous service by the former Minister of State and Digital Policy at the time of the performance of his duties. And I really do wonder, ladies and gentlemen: will we let there be shadows in political life? Will we choose transparency or covertness? Would we prefer clearance or impunity? Are we gonna decide on justice or are we gonna put the case under the carpet? These questions are to be answered today by our vote. But let's see how we got this far by taking things from the beginning. This case began as a dispute between two companies, a foreign company called 'CC' and the company 'TOXOTIS S.A.' in the interests of Mr. Kalogritsa. Repeated disputes, court disputes brought Mr. Kalogritsa, a representative of TOXOTIS, to file an appeal against the 'CC'. I read exactly from Mr. Kalogrisa's lawsuit: "At that time I had no binding bank accounts, so I had no money for channels. When I told Mr. Pappa, he replied to me, "There is no need for money from you. We'll figure it out. Your name is the only one we want'.' At another point, Mr. Kalogritsas says that the former Minister informed him that the 25 million euros were found for his participation in the tender for television licences. All Mr. Kalogeritsa was waiting to do was to find the 3 million euros for the letter of guarantee. As was next and only the nominal reference to the name of the former Minister quickly enacted the procedures of the law on the responsibility of the ministers, so that this case-file would come to the House without delay. That's how this case-file arrived. Ladies and gentlemen, from all the evidence studied in the previous months by the members who constituted the Special Pre-review Committee of the House, there are sufficient indications that the offence of the breach of duty has been committed in a serial and consistent manner, in particular that the party to which the former Minister belongs, but also Mr Kalogritsa, has been given an illegal advantage in what way? By obtaining a television licence, in an attempt, which harms all other participants, of course, but also the state. Ladies and gentlemen, I wish Mr Pappas was declared innocent by the Supreme Special Court. As a new Member of Parliament and as a Greek citizen above all, I refuse to believe that there are juror politicians in this Chamber. However, I believe that the case must be investigated and investigated in depth by the competent court - I would like to believe that the former Minister himself wants - so that the shadows that tarnish and stigmatize our political life are not left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Finally, ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by ending today with our vote to invite you to defend Parliament's dignity and transparency. I would ask you, however, at the same time today with our vote, to stand up to the circumstances and expectations of the Greek society that we have the honour of representing and I urge you today with our vote to allow justice to investigate this case, as it would be for every Greek citizen who does not have the office of the Minister. Ladies and gentlemen, with this attitude we will have judged the present case not strictly nor with due diligence. We'll have her just judged fair. Thank you very much for your attention.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u111	We continue with Mrs Christina Alexopoulou from New Democracy, which is called at Step. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u112	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr. Pappa, “My Niko” or “My Venetian” and “my dear”, as your friends so far called you,... [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] ...you were elected MP and you and the other colleagues, who have some reactions now, and you took over the crucial tasks of the Minister of Information to one single purpose: to serve as you swore to the Greek people, in whose name all powers exist and exercise. But you in the first few months of your term thought that the Greek state opened you "magaz" and commissioned you to "dill" and outsourcing, so to borrow some of the market expressions you proved to be using. In this way, it seemed very natural to you as a representative of the authority conducting a public tender to contact one of the candidates, in order to facilitate the submission of a tender on its behalf. You considered lawful, a politician with the supposed moral advantage of the Left, to communicate with Lebanese but also with local entrepreneurs to grant him the necessary funds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u113	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u114	Mr. Giannoulis, please! If you don't like it, get out. A lady doesn't interrupt her. Carry on, Mrs Alexopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u115	As much as you do not want, you will hear them, ladies and gentlemen. You considered it right to use your position to open and close channels and newspapers at your own will. From the outset we understood your practices and openly opposed your morbid attitude to controlling citizens' information. Five years after completing the work of the Committee of Inquiry, it is now obvious to all Greeks that we were absolutely right, that, with fraudulent and appropriateness, you act in order to benefit yourself through your favourite contractor at the time, gaining access to television licence, in order to form and manipulate public opinion. This view of things is certainly not natural, but it was absolutely expected of you. It's in the standards of centralised regimes with the ideas you agree with, you've grown up and you've been breast-feeding. You're here to check the joints of power, and your Chief has assigned you all the proper tasks. To you, Mr. Pappa, come the lot of information. Uncoveredly, you traded with contractors, foreign capitalists and militant journalists to achieve your purpose, which was not to secure democracy, but to ride it. When it was time for control, of course, the "levent" ran away. I do not deny that it is the right of everyone in the House to refuse to face up to the accusations of this House. However, you cannot deny that it is unprecedented in parliamentary times that the refusal of a controlled Member to submit to the suffering of his colleagues' questions and his choice to resort only to an apologetic record. However, even so, you consistently followed the path of guilty silence. I read the record carefully. But I didn't find a word about the great sms you exchanged, I repeat, you, the representative of the contracting authority with the candidate Kalogritsa and I don't think today we heard anything about the sms. I didn't find a word about the circulation of money you orchestrated. A journalist gets a newspaper costing 2,900,000 euros in return for money. Then the contractor who spent them is compensated for the money of the Lebanese, with whom you brought him in contact. Of course, in order not to blame the man, this journalist did not give any money, but he rewarded your charity, satisfying one of your deserving desires, the attempt to lure Mrs Grabowski. So began the headlines, with categories completely unfounded up to vomit against a young woman who just happened to be the wife of your political opponent. It was not then a woman of Prime Minister, it was just a successful female businessman. And according to the novels that insult our intelligence, the great 3m euros, which after failing the project 'SYRIZAchannel', were used for the newspaper instead of - Grabovski, he says, were given by Lebanese entrepreneurs to Mr Kalogris as an advance to carry out work abroad as their subcontractors. As it turns out, this was not the case, it is not even described in the so-called subcontracting agreement. In other words, for ordinary people to understand, we had a subcontractor without contraction. Not to mention that Mr. Kalogris had never undertaken work abroad. But you've been preparing him some homework. Unfortunately, the reality, as we all know it in Achaia, Elias, the Peloponnese whole, western Greece, is that you sacrificed the Patras-Pyrgos motorway and with him you sacrificed many of our fellow citizens. This is because you chose to promote in every way your canalarch candidate, cutting a mature project into eight departments, just in order to take care of it. Ladies and gentlemen, the majority of the committee of inquiry is fully and fully documented. Mr. Papapas has unequivocally infringed the duties assigned to him by the Greek people. There are indications that he has done so to his own financial benefit. However, in demonstrating the sobriety and impartiality with which it has carried out its work, the committee considered that it was not sufficient to refer to the offence of bribery. The former Minister amazed everyone, saying publicly that this fact, namely, that it was not imputed to him money, is his right to do so. It seems that he did not have the moral stature to understand the responsibilities he took. It turns out that as a auditor he had related contacts with the audited, as a depositary of the freelance press, he was trying to open channels and newspapers by intervening in the movement of funds. And once all this is proved to be complete, he celebrates and you celebrate. Finally, in July 2019 the Government of New Democracy took over power with a key objective and purpose to change the country despite difficulties. In 2015 you came to rule the country with lies and determined to serve yourself and your personal interests. The document is not one, the documentary is many and they are not contradicted. The reason for this must now be given to the justice to which we must all have absolute confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u116	Thank you, Mrs Alexopoulou. Konstantinos Zachariadis has the floor, by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Now I want right-wing temper.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u117	Members of the Com mittee, I now understand why the government's headquarters today and during the process of setting up this committee were empty, not because they did not want to intervene in the House, but why they had nothing to say, nothing. That's all, Mr. Pleari? Where did the headlines go, his articles, the tweets? Is that the "I'll take you to the end" of Mr. Samaras? Where are the terrible revelations? And today I get the press, I see the headlines, nowhere. I'm opening the channels, nowhere. So low? What's up, Mr. Pleari? They've made you rustle three months now and now they're emptying you? You screamed as a opposition, screamed when you set up the committee within the committee, you started whispering and now you're taking it low. Why? Because you want to avenge those who operate in the public interest. Because you execute orders of a business elite that he had learned never to pay. This isn't the first time. A few months ago, in September 2020, you were humiliated again, in the absence of eighty Members from the vote on the lifting of immunity of Paul Polakis, and then the Vice-President of the New Democracy, Parliamentary Representatives, MPs of Athens, apologies for media entrepreneurs. This was not the manipulation of media by politicians, which is why you unfairly blame us. That was much worse. The manipulation of politicians by media entrepreneurs and publishers. Elected MPs, Ministers of the Hellenic Republic to the service of publishers and entrepreneurs. And really, I'm not a legal person, but how can you substantiate a breach of duty? Did the man who broke his duty get permission? Are you condemning the act? Are you condemning the thought? Are you in the Papa's mind? Is that your imagination? Is that your fantasy? Are you judging the odds yourself? If the breach of duty is the regulation of the television scene, the rules and the price for the public, then what is deregulation? What is the absence of rules? What's the list, Pecha? That's a breach of duty. A democracy hostage in the media of business interests cultivating immunity and the law of the financially powerful. Does it not bother you, colleagues, that Mr. Javarra's complaint text disappeared from the media? How did that happen? Was Mr. Javarra's text indifferent? Didn't he go gel? None of this. There's just a rule. Anyone who disagrees, wherever it comes, is strangled. That's Mr. Mitsotakis' statusal mentality. Are those who rape the separation of powers and try to exercise strangled control everywhere are the so-called ‘lawful and permanent owners of the country’? Everyone knows. There was, and there's a way to get the favor of some mediums. It's simple, easy and successful. It has been operating in Greece effectively for the past thirty years. No rule, no price, no safety net for workers, no provision for content. Full submission. This cannot forgive us, that we have put an anarchist landscape in order, that we have put our hand in the pocket, that we are not the same as all those who ruled Greece over the past twenty-five years until then, that although we have been pressed, we have not bowed down, that we have won against the system of the then media, that we are no one holding us, that we have put EUR 250 million into the public fund, although in the last two years the collection has stopped and the Pecha list has started. So there is in New Democracy a specific group in the associated media that considers that the four and a half years of SYRIZA's governance was an anomaly in the system of the country's governance and not the will of the Greek people. They therefore ask for a repetition at all levels, in political, social, economic and now criminal matters. So they target the Pope, with leaks, rumors, make news, but actually they want to hit collectiveism, SYRIZA, Tsipras himself, the moral advantage of the Left. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Wait a minute, Mr. President. And now that you're running again with the direct assignments, Mr. Ploryris, with the partitioning of public administration, with the pillaging of public wealth, with the platter everywhere, with the gold and indifferent Golden Boys of the New Democracy, more and more of it from your side confesses: "Yes, Tsipras was different. Yeah, SYRIZA was different. Yes, they made mistakes, but they never put their hand on honey." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Talk to any people on the market! Talk to anyone in Brussels. They know very well that tons of mud against Nikos Pappa have no legal basis. They are trying to create a climate of disorientation, trying to create a climate of setback with government failure in the economy and pandemic. So withdraw the indictment. You've already recalled his core. Stop dispersing the country's political life. Stop rolling the political system in the gutter. You should understand that your political deadlocks, your management incompetence, your failure cannot be hidden. It all looks as much as time passes and it'll look more. Citizens know, see and watch and will give solutions when the time comes. Nikos Pappas didn't break a duty. It wasn't a scandal for the media to be licensed. If something is scandalous and answers need to be given, it is the debts of the New Democracy, which the Prime Minister refuses to come to the debate in the House and the guilty silence of Mr Mitsotakis's whereabouts. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u118	Be well. We're entering the third circle of speakers. The curtain will be opened by Mr. Savvas Snowides from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u119	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today I am trying to understand whether we are talking about a particular issue or whether we are talking about the Pappa law - the dear Minister is here - was good or bad. That's not what we're talking about. We are discussing very specific things, a very specific thing, if it really is in the context of this law that we are talking about interventions that are not in line with normal practice. That is what we are talking about and I will confine myself to. It is, therefore, something provided for by the Constitution, the law on the responsibility of Ministers. It is also Parliament's Rules of Procedure. It is up to the House to consider matters. Once this committee of inquiry came in, there were voices that someone is being persecuted, that they want to send him for a felony. It seems here, however, from the thorough examination of the witnesses, but also from all the treaties and documents, that there is a breach of duty, and I shall refer to this in a short time. The infringement of a duty is presumed, in the view of the legal documentation put to the vote and from there on, there are only slightly obsolete indications which cannot be sent to a defendant. In this sense, it seems that the New Democracy party and we have no empathy, nor are we seeking political and party reinsism. This is the major message, and we must understand that in this Chamber we must investigate, in accordance with the laws and the Constitution, but there is no pursuit and there must be no case for there to be empathy or competition or criminalisation of political life. This is therefore evidenced by the concrete conclusion put forward in plenary, so that we can take the relevant decisions. Of course, we can see such decisions, because both mayors and regionals are elected by universal suffrage, but every ten days they may sit at the stand of the defendant for violating duty. This is a more general wording of the law. That is why we have to do something about the status of the whole of the hereditaries. Here, then, is a glorious field for both this side and this side. So let's see how we criminalize the political life of the place in general. The point is that, reading at some point - and I will stay at this and because I am an engineer in the profession - I have never seen contracts so roughly written between 'CC' and 'CCC'. That's a gonatogram. This clearly shows that it is a fictitious contract. It's obvious. Of course, you did well to have 'CCC' - because there are black money procedures - and it appealed to Switzerland to see that it is a civil dispute. What else could a company of this size do and run for 3 million for black money? So he rightly won and won. We don't stop at that. And I would like to make an observation to the committee where Mr Kalogritsa was. You tell the unreliable or anything else. I don't count there. However, when he showed with the dropper a few messages and went back to Mrs Jack and Mr Polakis with such a file and said to him: 'Don't go on, because this is where I have you', to whom he referred? Who did he want to claim...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u120	He was talking to you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u121	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u122	He didn't turn to me. I would therefore say, when it was mentioned in a large file, and indeed, I asked the President if there was a case of confiscation in hand. It was therefore an opportunity to prove what he says, without saying that what he says is the right one, but they must be examined. Well, did he, and who sent a message to? So what did he say? That, be careful, I have more. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Would you give me one more minute? I always take your sympathy, Mr President. It proves, however, that there is no political empathy here. When we sent Samaras, the former Prime Minister, Pikrammenos, Stournaras and other politicians, and I am sure that today, with the thought that there is, the mood and maturity on your side, you would not do this again, because it is a great political mistake and the political life of Greece needs peace, we need seriousness, we need to see, we need to vigorously bend over the problems of society itself. In this sense, I believe that matters will be dealt with by justice. And because I have listened very carefully to all the rapporteurs, I will stay on what Mr Voutsis, the dear President, proposed, that this side of the House should not vote on. To change it and to say this: since, according to what Mr Pappas has said today and in the previous days, he firmly believes, like everyone, in innocence, what Mr Pappas holds today to stand up and say "I want justice, the natural judge, to prove to me, firstly, that I am completely innocent and, secondly, to document or leave after the suspicion of possible political persecution". That's what we all did. That is what I did in this Chamber, as a former mayor, even though we were entitled to move along all the issues. This requires every Greek, every Greek, every Greek, to have the courage, once Parliament decides to refer the petition, to be patiently allowed to examine us by the natural judge. We have nothing to fear at all, and that is very delightful for all of us. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u123	Thank you very much, Mr Snowides. Mr Christos Giannoulis has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Mrs Alexopoulou certainly won't interrupt him. You've never interrupted anyone. Mr. Markopoulos, I'm afraid so please be quiet on the right!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u124	Thank you very much, Mr President, for the introduction, because I will have to invoke one of Mr Snowides' last phrases of invoicing and the need for seriousness. I am sorry to say this, but, Mr Plori, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, I hope you will understand that today you are writing new scenarios, new tracks for the Delfinari. For the seriousness, if it corresponds to what some of the Members of the Com mittee have described, it has been lost for too long. Today, you know, we are not voting or we are not here to exchange views for a new inspection and you should choose between you two if you half are in favour and you think that today Nikos Pappas is referred to for bribery and the other half to understand why exactly we are going to vote in a little while. I will insist that today we vote on the basis of our conscience and on the basis of the consciousness created by values, values that are completely in contradiction with the execution of the blind line of the state that is in Maximos, and which dictates you to simply cost and vote for a vengeance. It's very simple. I have to tell you that today, while you have in front of you at the ballot, it is not Nicos Papas who is judged, but whoever votes and has to remember just things, to remember simple truths. You are voting for a covert personal and political persecution, a revenge. You are voting for it to be an infringement of the duty to defend public money, of the public interest. You have shown this two years now that your relationship with public control and public finances is not the best and is considered a breach of duty for those who defend it. It's unprecedented. There is no such precedent. A Prime Minister, a Minister, a government, a single government decision to bring the public funds almost equal to the money you have given the Greek people. The expression may sound vulgar, but the figures are about the same, one 250 million in the Treasury, you are constantly in debt to the banks at the expense of the citizens. I honestly don't know if there's anything else in this world like that. And because it is fashionable in the communication that you share your soul and body and your performance on European and global lists, I would like to remind you of a list that you are truly first: You are the most indebted party in the European Union. You are the party that has the greatest debts in relation to all the other parties in the European Union. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] I haven't heard anything about this first. But I hear other episodes 'Delfinari'. SYRIZA controls the media. I don't know if we should laugh or cry. You are the victims of public spheres, public dialogue and we are the regulators of the information. Do you hear what you're saying? Do you really hear what you're saying? Is there a man today who will consider himself a serious MEP's position that SYRIZA controls publicity and you are in obscurity? In any case, I do not know how you understand the truth, but, as I said earlier, all you ask is the exemplary and preventive punishment for all those who defend the rules in public dialogue. That's what you're afraid of, the rules. I hear that you are whispering things for 'SYRIZA Channel'. Of course, seeing Mr Russopoulos comes to my mind the political encouragement of Kostas Karamanlis, the former Prime Minister, for modesty. I understand that today's New Democracy has nothing to do with that time and you're proving it on the basis of your practice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u125	He's always been modest.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u126	The new Republic spoke, not of Mr Rousopoulos.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u127	Mayor, I'm sorry, but you probably remember the ghost of Antonis Samaras as a party and not Costas Karamanlis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u128	Please, Mr. Giannoulis, don't answer. Keep going.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u129	So you have the courage to talk about 'SYRIZA Channel'. Do you want to talk about 'anti-SYRIZA Channel', 'anti-SYRIZA Channel'? Do you want to talk about how it is done since 2012, when you were faced with your worst election performance, in 19%, do you want to remember all the media that Greek citizens have been watching exactly what attitude they have toward SYRIZA? However, "SYRIZA Channel" you don't say it. "Anti-SYRIZA" hysteria you say. Today, what we are experiencing is "anti-SYRIZA" aroused. You have created the "anti-SYRIZA Menos" and don't forget. Also, "anti-SYRIZA" hysteria is what we see a version of it, because it is also a little topical, it has nothing to do with Voltaire, but it has something to do with Vatterlo. The pre-examination you have set up is a modern parliamentary vaterlo, and that is what you deserve, and that is what you will collect from election. Closed up, so I don't abuse your time, I want to tell you something. Today is not judged by Nikos Pappas. Today it is decided whether you are determined to serve democracy or only the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u130	Thank you, Mr Giannoulis, for keeping time. Mrs Anna Mani - Papadimitriou from New Democracy has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u131	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one of the top provisions of particular importance for the political and social life of the country and for democracy itself is Article 15 of the Constitution, according to which radio and television fall within the exclusive competence of the National Broadcasting Council, so as to ensure objective and equal transmission of information and news. It is the provision that the SYRIZA government and the relevant Minister Nikos Papapas were defyed and destroyed with Law.4339/2015 and the well-known competition for television licenses, with the ultimate and exclusive aim of manipulating the media and controlling the television field, limiting the number of channels, but mainly by setting up a channel of their own, "SYRIZAchannel", a serious democratic slip, which of course fell into the Council of State, having already suppressed the Greek citizens' consciousness. The co-ordinator of this effort to control the information area was not other than the then Minister, Mr. Nikos Papapas, for which the first evidence of committing criminal offences led to the establishment of a special preliminary committee came to light after the transfer of the relevant file to the House. Thus, today, the assessment of evidence of the issues that were investigated and raised during the work of the committee, the initial indications were reinforced and are now sufficient evidence to the degree of certainty and suggest that the controlled Minister was the criminal offence of the breach of duty by serial and consistent action. In other words, they suggest that it has done with the intention of conducting a series of unlawful acts, with the aim of confering an illegal benefit to the same, to SYRIZA and to Mr Kalogritsa, while at the same time damaging the rest of the participants in the competition and the state. In particular, the main of the resulting operations are the following. In his capacity as a competent minister, even though he knew that Mr. Kalogericas had no money, so that he did not fulfil the conditions, he asked him to participate in the tender for television licences in order to obtain a channel license, but he would in fact be in complete control of the SYRIZA government. Also, because Mr. Kalogritsa did not have the required amount of participation, he was the one who broke in so that the company "CC" would give Mr. Kalogritsa the sum of EUR 3 million for the issue of a guarantee letter equal to that which was required. In fact, Mr Papapas himself, as evidenced by the evidence in the file, from sms, e-mails and witness statements, did not just know and coordinate, but had the most decisive role in the cooperation between Mr Kalogritsa and the 'CC'. He gave instructions, arranged for Mr. Kalogrisa's meetings with "CC", even attending a meeting with him at the Maximos Mansion, as it emerged from the statements in the pre-inquiry. In addition, while as a competent Minister he had to safeguard compliance with the conditions of the tender, he never complained, as he had to, that Mr. Kalogritsa was involved in a missing company and that the funds were not financed by him, but by the company 'CC'. In fact, after the withdrawal of this company, he tried to find new funding for Mr. Kalogrica, bringing him in contact with the businessmen Mr. Kontomena and Mr. Marinakis, without being known. Finally, when this project failed, it followed the second one that was no more than coordination for the creation of the pro-government press. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are called on as National Representation to decide on the finding made by the majority of the preliminary committee, based on inconsistent evidence, which we must take with commitment to the requirements of the law, the constitution and our conscience. The present case of television licences is the continuation of the SYRIZA government's efforts to control all the joints of power, as had happened with interventions in the field of justice and the well-known case of Papagelopoulos, ignoring and circumventing the fundamental constitutional principle of separation of powers. You are suggesting, ladies and gentlemen, the argument that you supposedly wanted for the benefit of the Greek people in the public interest to put order in the television scenery. This is the cloak of your actions. What you really want and tried to do, as it turns out, was to check the television scenery. Manipulate the media, promote your policies. And all this is not for the public interest, but for your own benefit only. However, the evidence is now more than sufficient than the responsibility of the then Minister, who has, in his view, committed the offence of the violation of duty to a slash and therefore. The reason is now Greek justice, which will be dealt with and judged by its actions, putting an end to a black page on the political system, the institutions and democracy itself. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u132	Thank you, too. The Chief of Staff Response is called in Step, the President of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group - Progressive Alliance Mr Alexis Tsipras.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u133	Thank you very much, Mr President. Today, I feel that this is a day of despair for Parliament and for democracy. A day of shame for the government majority, for the government absent from the government benches, for the Prime Minister himself, who is also absent. For a Prime Minister who has dedicated his political career to the division, personal attacks and the murder of his political opponents. From the "Greek strong!", when the country fought against lenders, to the rallying of the so-called treacherous Prespecies Agreement, which he himself today states honors and keeps from the fire in Matty which, up to the elections, was a crime, but immediately thereafter became a phenomenon of climate change, as he told the UN, to lies and misery for his political opponents, even terrible lies that abhor the memory of people who are not in life to answer, such as what he said to this Step on my father's supposed relationship with the dictatorship. Also, from attempting targeting without elements of the SYRIZA government's ministers to its present divisional attitude and rhetoric in the management and response of the health crisis. This is Mr Mitsotakis, who, unfortunately, I do not see him here at the government headquarters today having the courage and the courage to defend his political decisions. But his absence, in my opinion, is not only a sign of political cowardice, but also a acceptance of his political defeat in the matter of pre-inquiry, where for the first time in history a government majority is forced to be humiliated, admiting that there is no evidence of the main category for which it is attempting to put its political opponent to trial. This is precisely what I spoke to you at first, the dismay and shame of the government today, Mr Mitsotakis, but also of the House as a whole. Because, instead of today in plenary, in the presence of the Prime Minister and the political leaders, we are talking about how to deal with the again reaping pandemic, rather than talking about the anxiety and anxiety that reinstates the citizens, we are discussing how to set up a special court for your political opponent, even though no evidence has been found and you too have been forced to withdraw the basic charge. And it is even bigger down when we have a government absent and a Prime Minister, who came to the secrets yesterday in the House, once again when he knew I was out of Athens, to speak to us at the time when the pandemic was riding for the E65. Here the world is burning, boats are milking! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] He's always hiding...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u134	Little thing!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u135	What did you say, Mr. Marcopoulou?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u136	Little thing a road today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u137	Yes, yes, of course, this is what concerns the Greek people today. The Greek people, today, are concerned about this. Mr. Mitsotakis didn't come here to talk about the road. He came to get out today, so he isn't here and give an excuse, allegedly, to be present at the parliamentary headquarters a few hours ago. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It hides itself from the so-called decisions of the experts who have shielded them and made bulletproof and is well known, have mouth and speak, constantly passes responsibility elsewhere, to the citizens, to the health workers, to the young, to the invaders. But he, nowhere! Eleven million citizens, eleven million individual responsibilities in this place. Only one responsibility is constantly lacking, the responsibility of the Prime Minister. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What doctrine does it follow? It follows the known doctrine "divides and reigns". He divides, to hide the huge responsibilities that are burdening him. And while we constantly call on him in consultation on the issues of the treatment of pandemic - I am constantly calling for unity - he and his representative are constantly attacking Anti-Policy and me personally. Why? Is that my fault? Am I to blame for the pandemic and the inability to manage this crisis? Who said two months ago that we're in the last mile? Did I say that? Who said a month ago, in an interview with foreign news media in BILD, that July and August will be months of regularity and there will be no cases in Greece? Did I say that? Who celebrated for the second time in a year - last year in the sunsets of Santorini, this year again, here from Athens - that he defeated the coronary and we're done with it? Who gave a message to the citizens, not by insinuating, but by announcing, by officially leaking "flying the masks"? Who said that? Did I say it? Who opened the tourism twice without a plan? Who ordered Pakistani phones to go through incidents from the airport while citizens ate hard fines because they did little mask violations? Who did all this? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Who wrote in his old shoes the measures he was introducing with cyclists and glazings, coronary glazings at the time of the lockdown? Did I do all this? Who told us in December that from the next few months, every month we will have two million vaccinations? Who told us February that by June 70% of the citizens will be fully vaccinated? And it's inside July, and we haven't even reached 45%. Who said all this and who did so badly? What about me? Is that my fault? Mr Mitsotakis has failed, and that is why he is hiding behind proclamations and divisive tricks. It came out the other day, all of a sudden, to open up an issue of mandatory vaccination in sanitary. Who's gonna say the opposite for the sanitary? Here, this is a special case of operatives who come in contact with patients. Why is he doing this now? I was looking at the OENGE announcements today. 90% of doctors are vaccinated. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You'll tell me to vaccinate the other 10%. With you, vaccinate the other 10%. No objections. Such a decision, however, might make sense six months ago. Why didn't you take her? And why do you come here today and open up this matter, and you're so arrogant? In fact, you're also opening a redundancies issue. I heard a Minister of yours. You finally have a sack fetish. What can we do? It's the fetish of your resignation. You're stimulated by the idea of redundancies. You're crazy. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But I shall return to the question. The question is: Why are you now opening such a debate? Why do you want to open up a debate on compulsory vaccination, in general, in the population as a whole? Don't hide. That's what you open up. And not only to the sanitation that, as I said, is self-evident. Aren't you aware that by opening this debate you are sabotageing the vaccination campaign itself? Do you not know that, in opening this debate, you will be doing'scotch pigs' for those who have doubts about the necessity? Do you not know that this debate, in the end, will not lead anywhere, precisely why it runs counter to fundamental constitutional freedoms and rights? Obviously, you know that. But you are opening this debate in your knowledge. So why are you doing this? You do it for a very simple and cynical reason I will tell you directly: you do it, just to hide your vulgar failure. You just do it to hide behind the division and behind the division. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Sow discord. Spread the division in Greek society, just to get away with it. You turn each other against each other, just to escape the possibility - for sure, I will say the way things go - that all of you will turn against you. In the end, however, this is a very unpleasant, sad, dangerous and sad strategy for the country. You are proved to be extremely few to manage such a critical occasion for our country and for our people. As far as I'm concerned, I'm not going to follow this slippery path that Mr. Mitsotakis has chosen. We are here to unite the world in values and not to separate the world. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we will continue to campaign for the value of life, for the value of vaccination, and we will not follow you, because the road you drive and follow is slippery and dangerous. We are in no way going to fall into the trap of easy demagogy, inexpensive acidification and divisive rhetoric. We will say the figs, figs and boats, because this is our role - I repeat - not to break up, but to unite the world, without fear, with confidence in the scientific community, but also in the logic and feeling of our people. We will say with a narrow voice that vaccination is necessary, because no one will be safe until we are all safe. In the same voice, however, we will also say that vaccination that is a source of life and an act of solidarity and social responsibility can only be a choice of free will in a democracy, a rule of law. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] The threats, persecutions and convictions that turn the vaccine from a life-saving to retaliatory blessing, to remember something the older, are practices that belong to another context of thought and organisation of society, not to a democratic and free society. In any case, what we fear most of all is that they will have the opposite effect. Only a government that has lost the measure, which has lost contact with social reality and with the democratic management of difficult situations, could consider resorting to such practices, a government that has lost all contact with society, precisely because it divides rather than unite, because it strengthens suspicion rather than strengthens confidence, because it creates a situation of conflict when what the place and society needs is understanding and solidarity. However, I would like to return to the question of shame that I said at first and against today's sitting. You know, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, at the stand of the conscience of our people, especially after your fiasco in the pre-inquiry that we are discussing today, Nikos Papapas is not going to sit, because everyone else already. Another has taken over the position. Mr. Mitsotakis is already sitting on this stand. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And everyone in this Chamber, because at times when society and the country need responsibility, seriousness and above all unity, he has unleashed a normal division pogrom, with an extreme expression of what we are debating here today, the paradox of pre-inquiry in the midst of pandemic. Instead of discipline in the Constitution and in the laws, instead of pursuing a political climate that takes into account the criticality of moments, it triggers a frontal conflict on selfish grounds and why it distorts the truth in a way unrelentingly - I would say - on the path of post-population. Be careful, the NOVARTIS scandal for which the company agreed in the United States to pay hundreds of millions is for Mr Mitsotakis construction. For the rest of the world, it's a great scandal. For Mr. Mitsotakis, he's a maker. The effort, too, to put a stop to the elite's immunity for the first time, is also for Mr Mitsotakis scandal. But so the Prime Minister is sorry, but he does not break through the SYRIZA, the Pope or me. It divides every concept of justice into the conscience of the Greek people. In order to look good to the well-known - strangers, not myself, nor any other Syrian politician, but your former Prime Minister, Costas Karamanlis, called "davads" - and Constantine Mitsotakis once called "carcinoma of interlocutory" - all the sense of justice. That is why I would also say that Mr Mitsotakis, today's Mitsotakis, is never going to leave a mark as leader of the Right Party, because he did not have the same standing to collide with any of those who define the conflict in this place, rather than rushing to make them all the services. All of them! Let's see how long. Let's see how much! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So you set up a pre-inquiry without any evidence. Why? Just because those who would never forgive one thing asked you: That SYRIZA not only did not do them favours, not only did he not let them not pay taxes, not only did he not let them pay for the frequency they possess, the public frequency, not only did he not give them thirty and another thirty and another thirty with the "literary Pessa" and gifts on the right, on the left, not only did he not make last-minute votes in December in order to deduct taxes, but he forced them to put their hand in the pocket. This will never pay off, that will never forget against SYRIZA! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And, of course, precisely because they asked you to do so, which they still can't digest, and something else they still can't digest. That Poppa and Cretso got them four days off at books and ate sandwiches, and pizzas... [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] ...these great people of the country, because for the first time they entered an honorable competition, which was not set up, which was not set up, in a competition that forced them to prove their passion for power, to bet tens of millions where they said they didn't come out. This is what Papa pays today, and this is what SYRIZA also pays, that we have tried to impose rules on private television, that we promised them that there would be equal laws and equality - and that we have made them pay the state the price for television licences and everything that the law provides, that we have submitted them to this suffering of an honest competition and have forced them to comply - at least to some extent - with the laws applicable to every citizen and every single businessman in this place. But that is what you know, ladies and gentlemen of the government majority, for us, they are not evidence of indictment. You are the one who disguises all this in order to create a funny indictment that claims to be a breach of duty. These are creditworthy for a government that has sworn to defend the public interest and not the involvement. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] It may be a violation of your own governmental regularity, of your own regularity, which is to serve not the interests of the public but the interests of the interlocutor. For us, it's not an indictment, it's a merchandise. Because - I repeat - our duty is in the public interest, rather than in the service of struggling and those who believe in this place that precisely because they have economic power, they can upload and downgrade governments. Sometimes they do, but not for long. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And in any case, they should know that there is a side here that cannot be defined, that no one defines, and no one will, because it serves only the public interest and the interests of the Greek people! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] In any case, one I will tell you: two years now you have looked for us from both good and backward. Try to make fake scandals. You failed. You tried to set up special courts for our ministers. You didn't find anything again. Why are you setting up courts? Not because you found even one euro - one euro! - the break-up of public money, but one you take him to court because he dared to put the knife in the bone for justice to be attributed to the "NOVARTIS" scandal and to the midsts of the millions to majestic doctors, but also to ministers of your own governments...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u138	Which ministers?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u139	What ministers are you talking about?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u140	...and take the other one, because he dared to put the pimp's money, as Costas Karamanlis said, in the public Treasury. That's why you take him to court. Rejoice!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u141	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u142	That's why you're setting us up courts. That's why! [[Vibrant and prolonged applause from SYRIZA Wing]] Put those courts in place!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u143	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u144	These courts are our merchandise. It's an honor to both of us!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u145	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u146	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u147	Mr. Marcopoulou, you've had twenty-two minutes. It was a record. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u148	Set up these courts. It's an honor! It's our merchandise!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u149	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u150	But whatever you do...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u151	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u152	Mr. Marcopoulou, please! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] Please! Mr. Marcopoulou, please! Well done twenty-two minutes now. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u153	Put those courts in order! Whatever you do, it's one that lives in the Greek people. For a euro you cannot blame us. Because no matter how much you look and backwards turn us around, a coin won't fall down. No matter how hard you look! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Because the SYRIZA government was the most honest government. The government of SYRIZA was the most honorable government that passed through the Migration and then. And that's what hurts you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u154	You're gonna drown with what you said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u155	Please, Mr. Hatzidakis, do not cause. Let them go. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Mr. Barka, Mr. Santorinier, please! The Chief is talking to you. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u156	That's what hurts you!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u157	What level is that, Mr President? Get him out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u158	Let him in. It's good. That's what hurts you! That's what hurts you, because that's what's being discussed at the cafeterias.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u159	The Papastaurou an apology?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Marcopoulou.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u161	In the cafeterias this is being discussed, that our executives were not standing offshore and Panama Papers, since you are causing me, nor do they know what they have in their "subjects". That hurts you! [[Upright SYRIZA MPs applaud vividly and protractedly]] [[Noise from the New Democracy Wing]] So my question is this: can you say the same for you? Do you want - not to go back to the past - to discuss the party you have set up with the direct assignments during the pandemic in a series of ministries?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u162	What Ministries?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u163	Tell us the Ministries.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u164	We'll be here the next day. I have submitted all these figures in the House and a reference to justice has also been filed at least for one of the clear cases of the General Secretariat of the Court of Justice. However, to be fair, we have also had a pleasant surprise lately. After the mathematical report, the Secretary-General who gave three assignments a day and was masturbating public money, suddenly ceased to engage in the sport. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ever since then, he hasn't even spent a pen. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Strange things! What happened? Don't the penitentiary need any more? On this point, however, I would like to ask for your understanding, Mr President. I would like to raise two issues which we are persistently asking you in the last three days, but the most recent government representative, who is slaughtering them all and stabbing them, avoids answering them. One is the creepy business of Ilioupoli, and the other is whether it is true that the evidence has come to the light of publicity in relation to the Prime Minister's "before". As far as the first is concerned, I would like first of all to say thank you to a girl next door who, when she learned about the horror that the eighteen-year-old from Ilioupoli lived, did not sit with my hands crossed. He proved that no one should be alone against the racial violence against the circuits of the criminals. This girl, known as the waitress, is the heroine of the next door and she did what she had to do to save a child, a young girl. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Unfortunately, I cannot say the same about the state's attitude that, every day, more and more dark aspects are revealed about this terrible case. We're still waiting for answers from the Ministry of Citizen Protection and the New Democracy. But we don't get answers. Not us, but the citizens, the parents, the young children who are watching shocked about the evolution of this case at the time when complaints are being circulated and other prisoners from the trafficking ring. Four days after the arrest of the jury, the evidence and the photograph of the persons involved have not yet been released, as the authorities do in each case. And the question is why. Publication is not gossip, it is not personal data, but it is necessary for the detection of crime to proceed and for the perpetrators to be identified and other victims to open their mouths to remove this carcinoma. Do you realize that the message you send with this attitude is "do not speak"? Do you realize that this is how the public feels that something you want to cover up? As some people seem to have done - and here I am not questioning - when for twelve hours the victim was forbidden to speak to her lawyers, when they behaved to the victim as if it were the criminal itself, and when they were pushing her to get lawyers who would introduce her themselves. So I ask you directly - not you, but the government, which is not here, is absent, but I am sure it is watching - and I demand an answer now! Is the arresting policeman a member of the New Democracy, gentlemen? Is it? [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You have your records, you have your files. Is it? If it's not, go out and say it clearly. If it is, let him go! Or do you think that this is going to go through the candles as you tried with another one of your chosen crimes in the field of culture? Give an answer to my questions about the hooding. Silence more exposes you. Give me an answer! It's a collective trauma, not a single incident. The second point you do not answer is that of where you came from. There are a lot of questions I want to ask. It is not a matter of politeness, but it is a matter of the very functioning of the institutions, of the constitution. Today I will only ask one question and no one else. Is everyone equal to the law in this country? Or are they all except Mr. Mitsotakis and his family? I won't say any more, despite the fact that I have a lot to say. I'll say it when he's here and I'll look at him and look me in the eye! Then I'll say it and ask him for explanations and answers. I don't hit my opponents in the back, but in front of them! In front of me, that's where he'll answer. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In any case, ladies and gentlemen, in particular, ladies and gentlemen of the majority, you must know that the world understands all this. He understands what's behind attitudes and behaviors. One thing remains: we're not the same. You dropped the country on the memorials, we took it off! You've created a huge debt, we've set it up! You devastated public funds, we left you 37 billion to sleep alone today! You have created the grid of laws and predictions that favour political corruption and strife, we are standing for their devotion! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] In your own garden, complexity, extensive corruption, "SIEMENS", "NOVARTIS". We have stood against rotting with clean fronts and targeting, despite political costs. Finally, we are not the same, because you divide, and we join together. No matter how much slander you spend, no matter how much lies you produce, no matter how much toxins you move, no matter how drunk you get, SYRIZA will be faithful again to his date with history, whenever you are forced to set up ballots. And that's where you won't hide, because that's not where we're gonna be. There will be the workers in the 10th, it will be the middle class you devastate, it will be the householders you deceive, it will be the young people you face as enemies, it will be the majority of social sensitivity, but also the minority hunted by your regime. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So give us today another medal with the Special Court to which you will lead a former Minister with a sole charge of defending the public interest. After all, the final verdict will be passed by the Greek people!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u165	And now I will give the floor for ten minutes to Mr George Gerapetiti. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] That's right, enjoy yourself, but without shouting! Nobody said not to be happy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u166	How come from here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u167	Please! Ironic! Mr Barkas, since you've been in the Chamber, you've been commenting! If you don't respect me, out!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u168	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u169	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u170	If you were here, talk! No, you've been notified to come and talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u171	This was from the beginning of the Chief's speech! [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] Please! Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u172	Mr President, will the Minister speak?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u173	I have no objection to speak... (It didn't sound)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u174	It allows us to talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u175	Mr. Santorinier, please! If you don't calm down, he won't talk!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u176	Mr President, to speak, but not to say what we want.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u177	We don't know what he's gonna say!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u178	Mr President, I would like to speak on a point of order.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u179	Mr. Polakis, Mr. Gerapetti has come to Step.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u180	Mr President, I would like to say something.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u181	I can't, Mr. Polakis. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u182	Put on the mask you haven't made the vaccine!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u183	Put your mask on!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u184	Has Mr Gerapitris said a speaker?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u185	Under the Rules of Procedure, it does. Now is that what we're going to do? He's in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u186	Is the government here? Has he declared a speaker? Neither the speaker has said anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u187	Be quiet for Mr. Gerapitris to speak, so we'll get it over with. [[Noise in the Chamber]] Mr Polakis, you know very well that under the Rules of Procedure, the Minister - whoever it is - has the right to speak. It's over.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u188	But he wasn't here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u189	He's been here for an hour! Please, Mr. Polakis. Now it'd be over. Aren't you interested in what the government will say? So far, that's what we've been talking about.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u190	Mr President, go ahead with the other parties. Mercy!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u191	You're right, Mrs. Giannakopoulou. You're right. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. If I knew I would cause such a turmoil, Mr. Polakis, I would remain in my ministerial office and just let you do the monologue. Now I imagine we all want to hear a debate in this Chamber.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u193	Don't challenge him, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u194	First of all, I am obviously coming to make a few points about the procedure clear. I listened carefully to the Chief of Officerial Responsibility begs the Prime Minister, because he is not in the cabinet today, as are the members of the Government. I would like to point out, for once, that this procedure is the only procedure which is provided for in Parliament alone. The judicial function of referring political persons to the President of the Republic is a purely parliamentary procedure. And because this government is a government that fully respects the institutions, that is why we have no such kind of intrusion in the implementation of legislation. Because we talked about integrity of procedure today - and I followed all the speeches - I would remind you that in this Chamber on the previous government the general decree had it in the form of a non-Police Minister with regard to the referral of NOVARTIS, Mr Papagelopoulos, who was uninstitutionally the one who initiated the strings to have that very referral procedure. So today what you see is actually the absolute application and respect of Article 86 of the Constitution, which starts by saying "Only Parliament has the right to refer...". I would therefore refer you to Article 86 of the Constitution. A second point concerns the procedure. Was it an integer? Was it a frustrated procedure? So let me tell you that in my humble view the reality is the one that gives the answer. There has been a great deal of frustration - and I will come back to that - because, in the final analysis, the finding gives Mr Papapas only a proposal for a breach of duty and not for a bribe. But is there more proof of the integrity of the committee that carried out the pre-examination investigation than that it has actually scored all the objective data and ultimately the finding has chosen to propose one of the two offences in question? Is there? Do you really think that if the whole process were prepared and we went to a completely formal pre-review committee it would be better? We are not all as parliamentarians satisfied with the fact that there has been an exhaustive procedure before the Committee on the Examination of Pre-Accession and, ultimately, it has been considered that there is evidence of bribery, but not enough to make a proposal for referral. Is it not really an upgrade of Parliament that there are no prefabricated political persecutions? Is this not the function of the House, when it carries out the judicial work, under the Constitution? And today we have found ourselves apologising - and the committee which has done an excellent job - for the fact that it has actually kept the entire objective and subjective presence of the crime and has brought an excellent conclusion. I have also heard here that the committee has done a bad job in respect of violations of duty, but has been credited by Mr Pappas himself in terms of bribery. "By the way, she did her job well, or she was corrupt. I say that to the extent that this excellent work was done judicially, the House was at the height of the circumstances. Who wasn't at the height of the circumstances? I have heard that today we have been able to enjoy democracy. You will allow me, with all due respect, to say that it is not possible for those who conducted their pre-examination 'NOVARTIS' in the previous parliamentary term to become honorers and zealers. It's still very fresh with the ten polls picture. It is a very fresh process that has been followed to refer former prime ministers. The images are very fresh for Parliament and the Greek people to have forgotten. I would like to say one more thing. Mr Janakopoulos - I think he is not present in the Chamber - said that 'we must apologise' by Mr Papa because the proposal contained the offence of bribery and is ultimately not proposed to refer to it. But this is for apologies? Is that the apology? What should today's Civic Opposition do then for those who have permeated the last four years and are now free to try to find their point? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Sorry we didn't hear! Mr. Pappas won't be quoted for bribery. They were referred to as a series of felonies and repudiated. But an apology, I haven't heard. So it would be a good thing if we didn't move the finger for them. I'd like to tell you one thing. The Chief of Officerial Response came to the Step of the House and spoke about thirty-five minutes. About thirty seconds he talked about the motion for a referral. The rest, 99% of the time - not to say 100% - was actually a political type of election, which was all about the government. Is this an upgrade of the parliamentary procedure to its judicial work? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Is it true that we should turn this particular process into a headline to turn against the government? Did you hear the support for Mr. Pappas even in a word from the conclusion? A word! Mr. Tsipras said a word about why, in his opinion, the conclusion is not documented? Not a word!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u195	A lot of people he said!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u196	Instead, what did Mr. Tsipras say? He talked about "outside you".
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u197	He did good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u198	So you know something, which I think you all know, but every time there is a process involving political or criminal responsibility. We all know, therefore, that justice has been dealt with in the TEC, the Committee of the Greek Parliament on the 'before', which is a majority of judges. All these issues are unsolved. What did Mr. Tsipras also tell us? He also said about the health crisis...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u199	He did good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u200	...for tourism...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u201	He did good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u202	...for Pakistani phones...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u203	And he did good!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u204	...for "subjects", for direct assignments, for the disclosure of names for Ilioupoli. That's why Mr. Tsipras has come to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u205	He did very well!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u206	...because it doesn't have to say a word! That's why! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Mr President, I would like to say a word and you will allow me to intervene. I always remain on the agenda, and that is why I want to be an institution. However, because it has given rise to a reproach which does not belong to any of us, I would just like to say a word on the question of Ilioupoli, because I understand that the Chief of Officerial Opposition is the best rider of human suffering. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] He said why the names aren't made public. I should therefore like to inform him, since his lawyers have not done so far, that this is the responsibility of justice to do so, when the investigation has gone ahead, because there is also a presumption of innocence, which in normal countries with the rule of law is respected. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] Plus, I heard we deprived, he says, the possibility of having a lawyer with the victim. Well, let someone finally read the Code of Criminal Procedure that says that witnesses are not entitled to have legal representation in the preliminary investigation. What can we do? Get a suggestion to change the code. But that's what we should at least know. In this particular case, please bear in mind that there was contact with the lawyer. I'm going to go to one last thing. If I understand correctly, all the arguments put forward by Mr. Pappas and the members of the Officerial Representation were that: OK, my child, nothing happened. Since it was only a breach of duty and it was not a bribe, it is not worth going to a pre-examination committee which will lead to prosecution. Let me say this: The violation of duty is not a trivial offence as you want to show it. It is one of those service offences - the lawyers know them - from a state-recommendation, from the 18th century to the Russian Criminal Code, in the Napoleon Criminal Code, in the first Criminal Code of 1834 on Otto and it is a criminal offence, in total, criminal responsibility from the first Epidaurus Constitution in 1822. And to fix something. I also understand the intensity of Mr Pappas and sympathize with that. We are trying to be as substantiated as possible. The fact that no bribery is established does not mean that there is no breach of duty, because these two offences have completely different objective and subjective status, in the same way as a crime may be characterised as theft, but not the robbery. It is clear, then, that the criminal characterisation is completely different and there may have been evidence that we had the bribery, but not enough, and that is honest and proper and Parliamentary right not to be attributed. We had here, I think, a clearly unconstitutional law, it was judged by the court and that is politically responsible. But there is one question of manipulating the competition which also involves criminal responsibilities. So he said in that context...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u207	No law, an article of law, Mr. Gerapetritis.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u208	Mr. Voutsi, you will allow me to know that. [[SYRIZA Wing Noise]] If you'll excuse me, I'll finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u209	Ladies and gentlemen, to conclude.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u210	My own reading is that we actually have one, if not take responsibility for the breach of duty, if anything else we have a logic that it is not a serious offence. The President-in-Office of the Parliament, who, as he knows, said 'woe-min' that the finding is a business of influence, and with this objective, we should go to a referral. Mr Raguss, who is present, said that the House misrepresents only a breach of duty and should be accompanying other offences. He even mentioned the previous pre-examination, Mr Papagelopoulos, which has eight offences. He also said that this has never been done in Greek history. Don't deceive the breach of duty. Furthermore, I would remind you - it has a historical interest in this - that the first reference of a political person to the case of criminal liability was made to the Minister of Economy Charalampo Peru in 1822 for overcoming a task alone. So he has his historic value. And to tell you something else because it's interesting, too. Why was Perukas then referred, the Minister of Economy? It was referred to the Court for a declaration on a monopoly of salt without legal effect. Does it remind you of anything? Do we have a case of oligopolistic information without a constitutional backing today? It is the only case that I know of in the political history of the place where an entire parliamentary group welcomes the fact that a former Minister is only referred to as a flood rather than a felony. This in itself puts the emphasis on things. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] I would like to close before I said a word because I have listened to the Chief of Officer's Resistance multiplely referring to a division. It is a word that is too heavy and I would ask that it be used with enthusiasm and reflection. The division is something that has shaken the Greek place. And of course I, as a member of this group and as a Greek citizen, cannot accept the designations given because if it is a division that we are attempting many times with mistakes, but always with the good choice of the public interest, to serve the place, it does not give us any right to be divisive and, indeed, in matters that are of major importance. If the Chief of Officer's Response wants to see what "defense" and "discussion" means, I'd say look into indulgence, look at those who still hug the anti-invasive movement. This morning we heard Mrs Jackson mentioning that she is against compulsory vaccination. The Chief of Officer Response himself said it was a blessing. Let's decide what's one of the two. And not to forget, of course, that the Chief of Police Vice-Population said that we would never have vaccines by the end of 2020, and Greece would never be able to carry out mass vaccinations. So all this came to justify things. However, I do not accept from that group, which was a mass group of "ND pedophiles" and which makes an identities policy that is the basis of totalitarianism, and those are the ones that divide. At some point - and I am closing down, Mr President, and I apologise for overcoming - we must all, citizens and politicians, realise that the public duty is not a political wish. The task of a state official is the basis of accountability and democracy and the violation of duty, which is the current offence, is not creditworthy, as the Chief of Staff Response or syllable leaf said today in this Chamber. It is a major state reproach and it should be cleared up. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u211	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u212	Please, tell me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u213	There are no secondments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u214	I didn't ask for the floor for a second. Mr President, I asked for the floor on personal grounds to save time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u215	Tell us the reason for the staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u216	Mr. Gerapitris referred a moment ago to me saying something that he did not disprove, he failed to see it, he did not see anything else, that what the parliamentary majority is doing today is unprecedented in the chronicles of postmultiple, after 1974.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u217	Is this a personal matter?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u218	It is personal in that he falsified my words, Mr President. Second, Mr. Gerapetite...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u219	Wait a minute, Mr. Ragosi. I'll give you two minutes and we'll close the procedure. I am convinced that you have a personal issue, I give you two minutes and you will be completed within two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u220	Mr. Gerapetritis, as long as you were speaking and as much as you were trying to hide your turbulence, one thing you would not be able to do: with your presence here today as Minister of Government Mitsotakis to prove in detail and literally the correctness of all the objections we have from the beginning of today's meeting of the House with the premier of the President of Officerial Response. With your presence here, the sudden as Minister of Government, you have shown that you have experienced a universal parliamentary political and institutional vaterlo since you decided to commit this misfortune...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u221	What's the staff?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u222	See what he's doing? He gave me the floor for two minutes, Mr. Gerapitris, but your turbulence is not restrained. You are - and I shall end, Mr President, in a minute - with your presence here the absolute proof of the correctness of everything that we have claimed. It's really such and so uncontrolled now the downhill where you go without brakes, you didn't realize what you were doing. You came here and started saying that today's sitting is a sitting for Members and you were placed as Minister, stating in other words that all those who represent the majority today, or who represented it within the pre-inquiry committee, have screwed up. And what did you try to do, Mr. Gerapetiti? You should go further in the current position that you will bring as a parliamentary majority, as a New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, as a "cooked" New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, because you did not have any further argument to present to what has been used up until now and have proved to us that the only thing you are doing...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr Ragosi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u224	Don't do that now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u225	You spoke three minutes, with tolerance, for no personal reason. You know that. Please...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u226	Just a phrase.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u227	Mr. Ragosi, why do you want us to do this?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u228	Is that right? Just one sentence to say...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u229	You know it wasn't personal. You got tolerance for two minutes. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u230	There's a very serious matter...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u231	No, Mr. Ragossi, I cannot let you continue. Why do you want to make a no-need and substance collision? Please very much. We are now continuing with Mrs. Konstantina Giannakopoulou from the Change Movement. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u232	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, after the Papaggiopoulou case and the unveiling of the process of targeting and referral to top ten politicians of the counter-population, we are now discussing another major issue, that of the famous competition for licences in the channels on the basis of a law which was found unconstitutional, a tender that refers to Big Brother, while the overseer closes an appointment between entrepreneurs to get the licenses to the point where he needs to be checked, in order to check the mid-term landscape. These two cases you know, ladies and gentlemen, are making a systematic effort on the one hand to incriminate political opponents to strike certain political forces and, on the other, to control the institutions, justice and the media. This is clearly a central target based on perceptions and practices that have - at least - a problematic relationship to the functioning of democracy. First, let me make two main remarks. Observation one. The Committee of Inquiry has undertaken to investigate two categories, one of the violations of duty and at the same time that of bribery. The pre-examination concluded that the criminal prosecution was fully in support of the breach of duty and at the same time that there was no evidence necessary, in fact that they were not mentioned, were not told by the main witness as Mr Kalogritsa was in order to support the persecution. To my surprise, I must confess that I have seen reactions from Mr Pappas, but also officially from SYRIZA, who is about equivalent to celebrations. I am sorry, but this vague behaviour shows or that some people do not understand what it means in a democracy, how serious it is that a minister should be charged with violating a duty violation, or that many were afraid that during Mr Kalogritsa's statements there would be a need for bribery, bribery and when no further evidence was mentioned there was relief on their part. I'm sorry. I am really sorry, because SYRIZA is a Valued Opposition, which is supposed to be a potential government, and it is dangerous to think that breach of duty is something that is of no importance. Alas, democracy is based on such perceptions. Observation 2. I was deeply troubled by the hasty way in which the work of the pre-review committee was closed. In our view, the list of witnesses should remain open and be constantly enriched with new persons according to the course of this investigation and the findings. The immediate suspension of the work of the committee, with the main responsibility of the majority of the New Democracy, has not helped. I have the feeling that the truth went through us, but it wasn't all revealed. Gentlemen of SYRIZA, unfortunately you're not telling us well. What was Mr. Pappas' work as Minister of State responsible for the competition? Tell us about it. To promote the candidacy of a google at this so-called irresponsible competition? Know the amount of tenders the participants would make in the tender? To intercede for meetings of Mr. Kalogitsa with Mr. Marinakis or Mr. Nearmenias in search of funding? To arrange meetings with Libyan businessmen to get money for Mr. Kallagrisa? Involved in the publication of the newspaper 'DOCUMENTO' in a variety of ways when Mr. Kalogritsa's candidacy for television collapsed? I'm sorry to tell you, but this isn't a minister's activity. Activity coordinator in the effort to monitor the information is, therefore, of society, which, according to Mr Papapas, was known on all sides above, as he said. I imagine, ladies and gentlemen, the above was certainly not God. We all understand very well that the country's prime minister could not have known anything at the time. However, let us say it clearly about the Papa - Kalogerica case, we are not only concerned with the desire to create a television channel or a media that is friendly to SYRIZA, but with the orchestration of a whole plan against the opponents of the then government, as was attempted by the Papagelopoulos case, always with a pretext of supposed morality.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u233	Please finish, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u234	That is why - and I am closing down with this, Mr President - and on the basis of what was possible to be gathered, we as a Change Movement propose: to prosecute the former Minister of State of Nikos Pappas for the offence of the violation of duty by serial and consistent action, in accordance with Article 259 of the Criminal Code for the above mentioned reasons. Continue by the competent judicial authorities to investigate in law any other criminal offences by political or non-persons. It should be made clear - and I am closing with this, Mr President - that the committee's findings and all the information and information gathered in the Prosecutor of the Ice Bay and the Chief of the Prosecutor's Prosecutor's Office. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u235	Ladies and gentlemen, like the previous ones in the Chair, we are asking you all to be with little tolerance in time. But I hope the tolerance is too small. We are now continuing with Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou from New Democracy. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again this House is called upon to decide whether or not to refer to a former SYRIZA Minister for offences allegedly committed in the exercise of his duties, and once again the conclusion of the pre-examination finds interventions in key pillars for the functioning of our democratic culture, last time for the control of justice and now for the control of the media. Last time we heard in the pre-examination committee about meetings in the Maximos Concert Hall with businessmen and ministers to settle private disputes and pending court cases, with businessman Minonis complaining that he was blackmailed. We have heard former Minister Nikos Papapas speak of "magazies" that "do business" and "make money, a lot of money". We have now heard about an appointment at the office of the former Minister at the Maximos Mansion of the Lebanese company with Mr. Kalogrisa, in order to regulate the arrangements for participation in the tender for television licences and then, for an appointment that the former Minister was closing with Mr. Kalogrisa, Mr. Kontomenas and Mr. Marinakis, to find funds for the creation of a channel. We have, of course, seen reports and photographs with suspected travel to Venezuela and not just with lawyers trained in offshore companies, who go to Maximos, suspicious transactions with FOLLIE FOLLIE controlled by justice and various others. Do you think that you are being honored, ladies and gentlemen of the Police Department, all the things that have taken place during your administration? Do you feel proud of the behavior of your executives? Because otherwise, not only must you not cover them, but you must condemn them. Ladies and gentlemen, I could argue a lot about the evidence that has emerged in the pre-review committee as to whether or not the offence of breach of duty or bribery has been established. I will not, however, dwell on what is discussed in the multi-page conclusion of the pre-review committee, which gives reasons for what crime has resulted in sufficient evidence and for simpler indications. Besides, the House does not decide whether he is innocent or guilty. That's what justice will do. From there on, justice must have the floor, which will further investigate and decide. And there is always the presumption of innocence imposed by our legal culture and fundamental respect for fundamental human rights. But you have not done the same, ladies and gentlemen of the Officerial Representation, in the past, when many of you and your Chief have rushed to condemn Stavros Papastavrou, by discounting his guilt. Prime Minister of the country was violating the presumption of innocence from the Step of the House and this did more than once and did not apologize. This is, of course, linked to the general depreciation of institutions and their work in the years of SYRIZA governance. However, no one can hide the enormous political responsibility, ladies and gentlemen, not only of your former minister but also of your officials. Ethics discounts and entanglement with business interests marked your government, apart from the political irresponsibility that almost led the country outside the eurozone. And this moral discount is also manifested in the last time with unprecedented and unique in chronological celebrations to refer your top executive only to the offense of the duty violation. A few months ago you were talking about a preconstructed accusation and a preconceived referral decision, and now you are celebrating why the offence of a political official's bribery is not referred to. A moment ago, however, we heard that it is your honor and your decoration of special courts. It is obvious that celebrating is due to the relief that Kalogris said less than he could say. Because those who participated in the committee, but those who read the minutes understand that he knew much more than he wanted to say. So are you celebrating why he didn't tell us who White Porscha was? Why didn't he involve others? But what he has said so far is quite prejudicial to former Minister Nikos Papapas, who has not dared to reflect them effectively. For this reason, although it was provoked by Mr. Kalogrisa, he did not dare to disfellowship him. He did not even dare to question Marinaki and Nearly who were publicly provoked for what they denounced. And in the face of these accusations, I would expect at least Mr Pappas to come to committee and explain his position and contradict the charges. He did not, but he chose to send a memo not only to which he does not touch and does not cause Mr. Kalogerica, but in fact he does not disprove him, perhaps because the threat of Kalogerica's threat was clear that he will wait for Nikos's answers, which he calls'my ear' and'my lion' and 'appearances'. Of course, it doesn't explain the grim messages he exchanges with Calogrica. For example, it does not explain why, one day before the issue of the guarantee letter, Kalogerica asked to take "Summer to press London to first send, because it is for the Greek government" and what he did, so that it could be possible to issue the guarantee letter on the next day, the last deadline. What he should have done would have been to present us with all the messages he had exchanged with Mr. Kalogritsa, to see what they were saying and to discredit the charge if they really didn't say anything illegal. Because at least the things that Calogrits submitted to us, just five out of five hundred and fifty-four pages, are quite prejudicial. So why are you celebrating? Are you celebrating because one of your top ministers is accused of setting up a competition for TV licenses declared unconstitutional and moderating the virtual involvement of a company that was not entitled to participate, even setting up the amount that he would propose, which he was looking for to make money to become "SYRIZA Channel" and ending an appointment of the businessmen, who arranged with Mr. Kalogritsa for the financing of newspapers and radio stations? Were you celebrating and trying to turn Mr. Kalogris into a national contractor, with Attica Bank increasing its credit limit, while it was known that his debt was already insecure, that you cancelled the competition for Patras - Tower, because he could not participate in it, to break it into eight pieces and to take the four parts, although it was known and submitted to the committee, that he did not have the money and would not finance him any bank to execute even Attica Bank? And such a project came to be discussed and negotiated between members of the Lebanese company who wanted to participate in the tender for the 'SYRIZA Channel'. Then who was defending Mr. Kalogris here in the House for the wonderful pastures and taking political responsibility? I read and present in the Minutes some passages from the Minutes of Parliament on 23-9-2016, when Mr. Papapas defended the pastures and fully assumed political responsibility. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Andreas Nikolakopoulou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] From this pre-examination, therefore, several answers were given for a lot and several of your arguments were taken down. You declared a discount on the Kalogris for Patras - Tower after 2016, when they had already sanctified the plans for the "SYRIZA Channel". He didn't finally get the TV license, since you didn't have a problem with the next in a series of bidders. So many things have been enlightened by this pre-review committee. Justice will light up even more and that must have the floor from now on. If you are not afraid of her, then let us vote in favour of further investigation of the case and do not cover such behaviour. Why, in the end, your moral advantage is not only evidence of lies and political fraud, but it is becoming a huge moral disadvantage, a political, institutional and moral discount that has stigmatized the place in the last four and a half years. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u237	Ladies and gentlemen, I cannot stop you in the process of your speech, but I think you understand that we have given the previous speaker a tolerance, but that is not possible and that it is more than two minutes. Mr. Vitsats, from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. It is not Mr Gerapettis here, but I would like to give an opinion - I would not say it and advice - to notice why power is blinding and often makes you feel smarter than you are, stronger than you are and in the end, time comes and unfortunately, for the New Democracy will come faster, which is all ending. What did he say? 'It is not the government here because this procedure is only for Members'. New thing about Parliament's practice as a whole, but also about the whole science. In this Chamber, the MPs in the House are always. Even when there is a law, the government suggests, speaks, and parliament decides. The House decides everything. He proved it with the fact that he spoke as Minister, with the Minister's time, with the Minister's position, defending the government. So they need IDs in this conversation? The second thing Mr. Gerapitris said. For the 'NOVARTIS' pre-examination: two things. Will the New Democracy once answer as a party if there is a "NOVARTIS" scandal? Yes or no? That is the main issue. And secondly, because he is approved and, as far as I know, a good professor, he knows that on the basis of your wishes, and the practice followed by SYRIZA in this case, he has changed the Constitution and we have another procedure in relations between justice and parliamentary procedure. These two don't know? And that the seven of the ten have already been exonerated and the third issue is still dragging. The proposal, he says, of the New Democracy shows integrity. Good, that's a point of view. Because I think it's a complete collapse of the original charge. And I would like to tell you that you have, as a New Democracy, an opportunity through two options. One option is to withdraw the finding now, drop it in the bucket of unusables and end the process here. What can you use as a recital of this thing? The speech by Mr Ploiros, your rapporteur. What did Mr. Ploris and other MPs say to us until the last? All this for the accused is another crime. At the end of the day, however, every speech and, in particular, Mr Ploryris's speech say that yes, another offence, bribery, etc., but they do not apply, because there are no similar findings. So where are we going? In a crime - and every offence is serious - it is no less than the other - which is, in fact, an incident. I mean, I did what's a crime and because I'm also a minister or a public servant, I did a duty violation or I broke a duty violation, to do a crime. That is what happens to us now and we have the second one. So it is a very nice basis for Mr.Ploris' placement to withdraw your finding and withdraw it with respect and in Mr.Ploris' professional status and in the scientific background that he requires. The second option is this. During the secret ballot, the Members of the New Democracy vote "on" on the basis of their personal feelings of law and how they are to be awarded. But let us actually come here, because we were here and in the previous debate on the same subject, to set up the pre-review committee. Of course, the economic and media system in Greece is very specific, because all media companies are losing. So I don't think any businesspeople insane putting their money to lose. What's he gaining? He wins power. That's the main issue, if you want to, topic. So the Pope must be punished, because he was the person - he could be someone else from the SYRIZA - who had this system pay. However, the main category, which is completely collapsed - and you know it - and we discussed then, is that it is addressed to SYRIZA and more specifically, it is addressed to Alexis Tsipras. Why are you hiding? And because this whole thing collapsed, you dare not say it. What do you actually want to avoid? You want to avoid ruling on the basis of the social and national issues that exist. You have made a choice: opposition to opposition to opposition, which shows both knowledge and weakness or, if you want, knowledge of weakness, knowledge that your policy creates social rage and inability to respond effectively to real problems. This debate today is completely meaningless at its base. This debate should end with something that would cause you a problem, but it would be real integrity: 'We remove the charges, we were wrong'. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u239	Thank you. Mr Tsavdaridis has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u240	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, the National Representation is today called upon to decide whether or not to refer the former State Secretary of SYRIZA, responsible for the media, Nikos Papapas to the special court. It is a referral to the category of violation of his ministerial duty in a turbulent and consistent manner during the competition for television licences in 2016, as proposed in the conclusion of the pre-examination committee, which I had the honour of participating in. The gratuitous conclusion of the finding by former Minister of Government SYRIZA - ANEL of the conclusion is the result of massive evidence, evidence and evidence that Mr Papapas, with his constant behind-the-scenes interventions, has succeeded in riding this competition, in order to obtain a channel license from Mr Kalogrica, but to which both the Minister and the party of SYRIZA himself will be, in their efforts to manipulate the television scene and the media of the country. The acts and omissions of the former Minister of State, Mr Papapas, are developed at three different intervals. In the first half of the year, Mr. Papapas not only coordinated Mr. Kalogritsa's contacts with the 'CCC', and even arranged a meeting between Mr. Kalogritsa and Mr. Houri himself, but also as overseers and Prime Minister, instead of ensuring a fair and crystallized procedure, as he ought to have said, he tolerated the breach of the provisions of the competition he put in. In the second period, what is delimited by the issue of the guarantee letter and the award of the tender until the first instalment has been paid, according to the preliminary investigation, shows that Mr Papapas not only informed Mr Kalogritsa of meetings he had with other competitors that would have participated in the tendering of television licences for what amounts they intend to offer, but also when the agreement with CCC was concluded due to its withdrawal, Mr. Papas himself brought Mr. Kalogritsa in contact with the major big businessmen Dimitris Kontmena and Vangelis Marinakis in order to find the necessary funds. In the third period and after the failure of the television licence scheme, Mr. Papapas ensured the pro-government version of the pro-government then and fully controlled by the former Minister 'DOCUMENTO'. After his break with Mr. Kalogritsa, who objected to the horrific attempt to target political opponents and their spouses from this form, such as Ms. Marva Mitsotakis, the Minister then ensured that he continued his extradition by transferring him to Mr. Vaxevanis, who, on one night by a newspaper director, became a publisher. Mr Pappas, of course, but also the whole SYRIZA, against all of this, speaks of justice. They are celebrating, in fact, because the top executive of the then-government and closer associate of Mr. Tsipras is only controlled for the violation of duty and not for bribery, a crime for which was also controlled by the committee, but for which simple and not sufficient evidence of persecution. That is, ladies and gentlemen, the awkward code of SYRIZA, to celebrate because a Minister is accused only of setting up a competition and, at the same time, because there is not enough evidence that he has already taken it! Mr. Poppa, do you know what common sense says? That every man who is wronged and slanders puts before righteousness the one who believes to be slandering him. But you, Mr Pappa, have not only sued Mr Kalogritsa for slandering and fraud, not only have you made any substantial reference to your record of the offence of duty violation, since you have finally turned to whether or not the offence of bribery is being haunted, but you have not even bothered to come to the preliminary self-inquiry to claim the right to be told you have! [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I need a minute, Mr President. What you have proved, in the end, Mr Pappa, is that a political reproach, an extremely criminal act, is tolerated in SYRIZA's eyes and consciences only because it is a flood in the face of the anguish of worse scenarios. You are forced today to applaud Mr Ragosis, who has chosen to lift the banner of the defence of Mr. Pappas, when he, as a Parliamentary spokesman of PASOK, said in 2015-2016 that "will have a bad end..." - the SYRIZA means - "with the opaque and scandalous path they have chosen to specialize television licenses". And he completed: "In this way the government is causing an opaque tactic tactic under the table." But, well, Mr Ragosi, have you forgotten these and come here today to present us as king's king? The reason for this is the Greek justice, which will catch the thread from where the pre-examination committee left it, giving a finding that had no deformative political lens of influence, but was based solely on the legal elements and the evidence received. It is a conclusion that we are proposing to be voted on by Parliament, but that this and the minutes should also be forwarded to the prosecutors and the competent authorities, in order to investigate self-prosecuted offences. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, too. If I may, Mr Ragus was not a PASOK Member in 2015. I've read the statement myself. He was simply not a member of the Movement of Change or of PASOK at the time. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Brutsi, has requested the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u242	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, just before we watched the Chief of Officership, Mr. Tsipras, coming to this step and let me feel uncomfortable - until very badly - as a Member of the Greek Parliament listening to the Chief of Officerial Representation speaking in this derogatory way about a completely institutional process of Parliament. Use words heavy and unacceptable. He spoke of the day of disgrace and shame of the Greek Parliament. He talked about the affluence of the institutions. Really, isn't it? Is that what is happening today in the Greek Parliament? I put aside the substance of the debate and go to the point of order. What are we doing today, ladies and gentlemen, in the Greek Parliament? A period ago, after a lawsuit submitted by Mr. Kalogritsas to representatives of the "CC", the Prosecutor of the Ice Award sent the Greek Parliament a file of census called the former Minister, Mr. Papa. Is that disgraceful and shameful or is it a real event? Of course, it is a real procedure provided for in the Rules of Procedure. What did the Greek Parliament do? He did exactly what he had to do. He evaluated the evidence that they had seven categories. The House concluded that only two of them can be set up by the so-called preliminary committee, and that is exactly what it did. The preliminary committee provided for by the Rules of Procedure, and today we are debating the conclusion made by the majority of the preliminary committee. That's exactly what happened. Is that disgraceful and shameful for the Greek Parliament? That's where we drive? Today, then, we are discussing the conclusion of the pre-examination committee whose debate is not to show that Mr Papapas is guilty, but to decide as a Greek Parliament whether this finding should be brought to Greek justice. This is an absolutely coordinate institutional process. What did Mr. Tsipras say? This whole procedure, which is provided for in the Rules of Procedure, has been insulted in the worst way, i.e. it has affected the Rules of Procedure itself, the institutional procedure of the House. Do you agree, gentlemen of SYRIZA, with this? So, in future, what should be done when another file comes from the Ice Bay Attorney's Prosecution? To be indifferent and to say we don't talk? For everyone here in this House, is it not the same? The second issue with which I will fully agree is the merciful position of the former President of the Parliament, Mr Voutsi, who said that we must at last discuss qualitatively, without criminalising the political life of the country, crossing the swords of our positions, our ideas, we must not send our political opponents to justice, but any political confrontation to be made civilised, with ideas, political proposals. Who disagrees with that? It is a regulated position of our political system. But, look, did this happen in the past? What Mr. Tsipras spoke about today is that we put Mr. Pappa on the stand and set him up at five meters. Is that a reality? We have followed a coordinate institutional procedure which is currently evolving until voting time. But it's a little bold to challenge Mr. Tsipras to open up such a conversation when some older people here in 2015 experienced exactly opposite things. Weren't we here when Mr. Tsipras, as Prime Minister of the country, held the so-called Lagard lists and Borgians lists in his hands? Wasn't it the one who put not one person on the stand, but did it make it clear that the entire New Democracy party was conceived by its Members, its executives, are accountable for these lists? In fact, Mr Papastavrous, whom the thousand things have been said, and finally Mr Papastavrous was completely acquitted a few days ago. And, as Mr Tsipras had promised, he had said so himself, "If Mr Papastavrous was acquitted, as Prime Minister, I would say I would apologise." And what did Mr. Tsipras do? He has asked us to apologise to Mr Pappa for a process that has not evolved. If that's not the ultimate hypocrisy and the definition of hypocrisy, then what is it? Ladies and gentlemen, on unity, which Mr Tsipras has spoken about, and not on divisions, this fact has proved so. The unity of the Greek people is in the commendable code of the New Democracy. We proved it on our historic route as a party. We constantly prove this because we believe in the unity of the Greek people and not in the division. In no case is the present procedure a process that wants to highlight the division of the Greek people. This is an institutional process in which New Democracy, even here, through this pre-research committee, has shown that it respects the institutions. There have been seven figures - I blame Mr Pappa, two adopted by the House. One of the two who went to committee was the bribery and the other was the breach of duty. And what did this committee which you are questioning? On the basis of the evidence he assessed, he considered only one, i.e. the breach of duty. This committee is dishonest and unreliable? On the other hand, you welcome the fact that I do see it as a good thing, that there was no question of haunting bribery. That's very positive. But this committee, which you are accusing of, has done so, and on the other hand, you are accusing her of the issue of breach of duty. To make things clear, because time is running out, the speakers are finishing the process, and at 6 p.m. we have a vote on this issue. I, Mr Voutsis, belong to them - and I believe the vast majority of those who are here today as parliamentarians - who want the unity of the Greek people, because we believe in unity. It has been shown that this people are triumphing and overcoming problems. And a procedure like this is not just a divisional one. It simply implements its institutional role as provided for in the Rules of Procedure, which you served as President of Parliament. So, as President of the House, a procedure like this, or else, how would you treat it? We said to leave in the past what was opened in 2015, the "categories" that were not documented for Prime Ministers of the country, for eight ministers and top parties, which were finally carbon, which you are using for Mr. Pappas. For this world that was afflicted, we saw Prime Minister crying from this Step, what do you have to say? That was the unity of the Greek people and today is a division? A elementary self-criticism can't you do? And if you don't do self-criticism, at least don't have the nerve to come today to give up on us that we're doing something that isn't right. That's absolutely right. And with soberness the Greek Parliament will decide today whether and whether, on the basis of the evidence put forward by the Committee of Inquiry, it will send to justice this particular file and let justice decide soberly. No one spoke of guilt, but it is challenging, having this heavy past, the political heavy past as a government for four and a half years, which you showed with this party, New Democracy, coming today and making the honors of unity and quality political dialogue. Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek Parliament is doing what is imposed by the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament. The Greek Parliament today debates soberly and gives the opportunity to those Members of Parliament who wish to speak, to have a debate on a matter which concerns public opinion, has dealt with it in the past and has not started to address the Government of New Democracy. It was something that came coordinates through an announcement of the ice Arrow. I wish Mr. Pappas would be vindicated in court. No one wants to incriminate a Member of Parliament. But let me tell you that this procedure is a perfectly legitimate process, which Mr Tsipras is making a great mistake in this uninstitutional way. As far as the past is concerned, I was amazed that Mr Tsipras was in the passion of his position - Mr Ploris was inviting him from the bottom - to speak about the mediation of Ministers today from NOVARTIS and despite the call made to him by Mr Ploris to say about which ministers he said the bribery was done, he did not respond. He said so in the absence of his word, did he say it on the basis of the desire that he would have had, his desire, or did he say so because he believes it? Here, gentlemen of the SYRIZA, the President of the Police Department should be placed until at least tonight, because this Step, the Step of the House that we are using, is a very serious process, and especially an institutional person, such as the Chief of Staff, who should be very careful in such heavy complaints, when the people for whom he has implied today that he has been implied to have been paid for by NOVARTIS, have already been acquitted. I hope and believe that this process will end in the best way, and I repeat that it is a process that is absolutely institutional. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u243	Thank you for the time, Mr President. We are now continuing with Mr Spankee from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u244	Ladies and gentlemen, many views have been heard in this Chamber today. But things are very simple and very clear. We must finally speak to the Greek people and clarify our position with the Greek people. I listened very carefully to the Chief of Officer's Representation to put a dilemma to the Greek people and say from this Step that here we are as SYRIZA to get the date with history. I do not hide from you that I am very proud of this route as a ONNEDitis, as a party executive. This date with history when I listened to it in the '80s or early '90s, you know what was coming to my mind? Like something the Greek people have paid very expensively. The date with the history the Greek people have paid for it and will not be taken again, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. But let's go now, actually. And what's the point? That today in the House is coming a conclusion. It's a finding that goes beyond two hundred-three pages. I think we have a minimum obligation to read this finding. This finding has some conclusions. It has some views from all sides, from all those who participated, and it says specific facts that one cannot dispute, no matter how much one disagrees. And there's a key question coming. This conclusion will take a journey if this afternoon Parliament votes to approve the further process? And I ask SYRIZA's colleagues and colleagues: is there anyone in this Chamber who is afraid of justice or who does not trust justice and who will come to hide behind it? So, what do you want to tell us, these two hundred thirty-three pages to throw them in the basket of unusable people? Is that what you want to tell us? No, gentlemen of counterpopulation. We are not entering this process. We come here and say that when there is an event, we ask for the waiver of immunity to be beautifully, masturbated. I don't know what you're afraid of now or what you don't trust. Go and tell them tomorrow at the cafeterias, which mentioned from here, Mr. Tsipras, what are they talking about at the cafes? To go together, Mr Polakis and fellow Members, to the cafes tomorrow, to see where you were hiding from. Because that is what you have done in the Greek Parliament today, ladies and gentlemen of the Opposition.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u245	Are you telling me about a cafeteria?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u246	Because we hang out at a cafe to talk, but we're not hiding, Mr. Polakis. We're not hiding! This story, if it were not so serious political and institutional, would be a failed pragmatism. The reality competition, with prized television licenses, pastures, rather than guarantees and so on. Of course, the details and details raised by the Special Committee's meetings and recorded on the pages of the finding we hold do not give rise to laughter. And since time is too short, I would like to say that the offense is extremely serious. We are talking about a violation of a duty by a serial and consistent and separate means from criminal law - a part, the political and institutional part, we are all concerned. No one's above democracy. No one is above the institutions. The evidence which has emerged is revealing and our obligation, it is our minimum obligation, that this case be investigated in depth. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u247	Thank you for the time too. We are now continuing with Mrs Theodora Augeris from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u248	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, one should be particularly inventive to be able to capture in words the political fiasco of the New Democracy, which is culminating in this Chamber today, although, of course, it was clearly reflected in the image of the turmoil during the speech by the Minister of State, Mr Gerapititi. But no matter what word one uses, deceptiveness will be the same. It doesn't take much thought to understand why the Mitsotakis Government led to this fiasco. It's more than obvious there's no indictment. It never existed. The New Democracy knew from the outset that it did not exist and, more or less, admitted that in its conclusion. What existed - and there is - is, firstly, the reincarnation of the New Democracy towards SYRIZA, who, on the one hand, took the country out of the memorials, on the other hand, put brakes on the very bad habit of a parasitic oligarchy and its clients grabbing from wherever and from whom they can. What also existed - and there is - is the New Democracy bills on the canalarchs, the few-girls, who supported it and continue to support it, the notes on those who want the exemplary punishment of the man who required them as Minister to have legitimate television licenses and not to blemish radio frequencies at the expense of the public interest. Thus, in the same logic as the other pre-examination, where the cover-up of criminal and political responsibilities for the "NOVARTIS" super-scan, New Democracy once again made a accusation against our former Minister and executive. In this respect, he invented a so-called bribery by Nikos Papapas in the competition for television licences. Subsequently, it followed the typical neo-democratic process: atrocious propaganda, murders of characters, blocking of witnesses, anti-institutional medals, reversal of terms, devaluation of citizens' intelligence, challenge of moral panic in society. The New Democracy fought with nails and teeth to keep an unexistent case on track. He didn't seem to have hesitation. It was critically affected by the institutional authority of the Parliament, which was dragged into another pre-examination Mitsotakis property, just to keep the anti-SYRIZA front alive. And when the New Democracy has no longer been able to file an indictment from the witnesses' statements, it has now come to an end this misconduct, saying that Nikos Pappa's duty has been violated. And on this charge that the New Democracy defines her as a violation of duty, as the pimps who once had them across, Mr. Russopoule, want all of them to reach Nikos Pappa to the special court. The fact that, of course, they mean breach of duty that Nikos Papapas managed, that is to say, to bring revenue to the Greek public and rules to put in the irresponsible broadcasting landscape and to preserve and strengthen jobs, ultimately demonstrates what the New Democracy means as a duty. Considers its duty to depend on interdependent interests, the ownership of the institutions and the state, arrogance and authoritarianism in the exercise of power, reunification against its political opponents. Ladies and gentlemen, Mr Cairides, it is saddened by the efforts of the Members of the government to make the black white one today. It causes grief and frustration to try to justify unjustified, even to entertain the impressions of the unprecedented fiasco in the unexistent Pappa case. It's bloodshed you're doing today, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. As an old Minister would say, you are serving. This is reflected in your presence and in the way in which you have been present throughout the procedure. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will need your tolerance for a minute, Mr President. If, however, something is interesting and important to discuss in this remaining time that remains in this process is the footprint left by the tertiary world methods of the New Democracy, its works and days on the public and political life of the country. Everything that characterizes the two callous pre-examinations set up by the New Democracy is not different from what characterizes the work and days of the government, which in vain seeks to convince that it has the control of developments and the initiative of movements. If the New Democracy has something, this is a huge debt of hundreds of millions that is burdening the state funds and citizens' pockets. It also has a Chief who thinks he is a monarch, to whom the laws applicable to everyone else do not apply and whose good life is defined as a measure of the well-being of his own nationals. And, too, if something happens to the Government of New Democracy, the Mitsotakis Government, this is the special relationship with scandals and their covertness. It began with the cover-up of scandals, such as "NOVARTIS", until the Lignade-Mendoni scandal, and comes to cover up police arbitrariness and all kinds of criminal circuits that terrorise our everyday lives. But the worst thing - and I close with it, ladies and gentlemen - is that the New Democracy has a leader who thinks that it has a hereditary right to grant citizens freedoms as a reward for their faith in him. And because you have all this, ladies and gentlemen of the Government of New Democracy, your political time is getting short of it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, too. Mr Charalambos Papadimitriou has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u250	Thank you, Mr President. I think that now that things are more calm we can agree on some very simple things. The English call it 'bad luck'. In Greek, usually, people say to each other "the Pope ran away", because he trusted a man who was at a difficult time. And that makes sense. If this had not happened, if the 'CC' had not been involved in this adventure itself - I think that a colleague said so quite rightly, if I remember correctly, that he could not do anything different. Because there is the black money procedure that one needs to cover his back, as it covered her back when it was asked for 20 million and already understood where she was going to get into trouble. If this hadn't happened, we wouldn't have anything to ask for here, because, dear Nikos Pappa, there would have been nothing to do with it. New Democracy didn't create it. Journalists didn't even create it. Who knew that you had exchanged such sms or anything else, loving expressions, with the old and well-known businessman. Of course, we all saw that once you took the government, the place was filled with "TOXOTIS" workshops. We all saw Mr Spirtzi's efforts to unite, cut off, unite again, somehow get the work of Patras tower road. We've seen all this. The problem, however, was that things didn't work out somewhere. I think it would be much more quiet if you said: 'Okay, let's go to court'. And I'm glad that with your speech today you didn't actually get into it. You left her for the court.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u251	Didn't I actually get into it? You didn't hear me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u252	So we'll go to court, watch what one has to say. That is where you will be required - I imagine - to say more. And, of course, the witness is not ours. Nothing to do with it. The man spent hours in pre-inquiry saying "I have nothing to do with them", that is to say, us. He's got you. And you have the problem. You'll find them in the courts. The only job we do is that we had to discuss it, because you are a congressman, and you should not go "speaking" to court whenever you collaborate with an old comrade. But you're not right about saying that you came here to exalt the television scenery. We have discussed this in private. You're not right. And it is a pity that so many colleagues in the SYRIZA, as well as colleagues from the KKE, believe the things they say. It's another thing we've been talking about, like the previous one with Mr. Russoulou. And I couldn't avoid making a reference to your presence, dear Theodore. We were saying a lot of people gathered together before, I guess Tsipras would come and talk. And it is true that we have all been pleased, a syriza achtif, which is becoming more and more frequent, that you are either prepared to lose the next election or that there are some other kind of problem I have no reason to get involved in. But you cannot say that there were no permits. I agree with you that the way in which permits were renewed was a way that could happen again. Rusopulus had started it. But there were licenses.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u253	Oh, no.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u254	There was a law, there was everything. You're wrong about his decision...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u255	You can tell the truth.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u256	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u257	As far as the Council of State is concerned, we have discussed this. You're wrong about this.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u258	...(Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u259	The Council of State, if you wish to take insurance measures, said: 'I have no reason to say why there are permits.' And he told you another thing that you didn't accept. "Go with the PSE to do the job." And that's exactly where you lost.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u260	...(not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u261	You're welcome.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u262	You have to accept it when you lose. And now, for example, if you were to tell the man who is also a certain age: 'Okay, okay, you've broken unwritten laws, but they're laws' and you said 'Let's go to the courts to find them', we wouldn't be involved in anything. We'd be done. What, if you wish, bothers me after thirty years, because I officially entered in 1989 and got out of journalism in 2019 - but don't think I'm happy to be with you - and what proves most is what happened when the 3 million, 20 million-dollar case of television licenses was dropped, for which anyone will wrongly blame you. You're free to find any businessman you want and make money to make a newspaper. It's a completely free matter. However, you must admit that the way you handled the 'DOCUMENTO' case, as a party form which is not linked, but also to the Left, so that it can swear, throw mud, withstand the vortex to which its staff enter, is that it primarily reveals the real way in which you handled these issues. And he tells you there. He's filed a sworn probation in front of Mrs. Bajraktiri, Mr. Kalogritsa. There's the problem with the politics you've got. And that's not the point. You will be tried for something - and the Minister has explained it - which is heavy not because it is a flood. I ask young people and say to them, 'a flood'. And they tell me: “What is a flood? As if it was a violation of the KOK.’ No, it's not like that. You are being tried and tried for something that is dishonourable for a politician, especially for a politician like you, who, thank God, learned the politics from your home. And it is a specific policy, which I fully respect and you know that. So the dishonoring is what we wanted you to answer for. You didn't answer us here. You brought Mr. Tsipras to say two good words as if we were in autif parties. We are with you in your agony, but we are not with you when there is a matter of justice. That is why I believe - like the former President of Parliament, Mr Voutsis, who is now coming in - that you should be telling the truth. The truth is, if you had let the TV licence stuff take place as Rousopoulos had planned, you would have done everything very well, you would not have been involved in this adventure, which is your personal experience - I understand - but, above all, in an adventure that established the concept of interactivity in SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u263	Thank you. Mr Paulakis now has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u264	Thank you very much, Mr President. If I would put a title in today's, in fact, against the Parliamentary Republic, at today's sitting, I would put two lyrics from an old rebetiko, which is stuck with what Mr Papadimitriou said just now, with the flood. You know the song that says - I don't make it hear it, don't be afraid - "You've taken us a flood on a disruption, but our registries have found it all right". [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you found the registers well, because we, as Tsipras said, are the clearest government that has been through this place since 1974 and has been here at least. And you've thrown a huge bump. You made the death of foxes with the media you control, your towels. "Three million has been bribeed by the Pope by Kalogritsa!" And today you take him for duty violation, that he checked - and well - the tender procedure that Calogrits did not obtain, because he kept to antenna the procedures described by the law. This is a huge political defeat of you, gentlemen of the New Democracy, - your huge political defeat! - which doesn't save any legal complications, even if you're trying to formulate the disgraceful thing. And it seems from how high you have the matter today in the instruments you control. You did not forgive and forgive Nikos Papa, because for the first time the canalarchs, the pimps, as Costas Karamanlis told them in 2007-2008, paid. They sat in four days, beaten - the hits reached 100 million - to show the value of this public good, which was carved, Mr Papadimitriou. They didn't take it by law. They took care of it, like it was their grandfather's field. And that's where they paid. And we brought revenue to the public funds, which you as a persuasive institution of interlocutory, through successive legislation after becoming government, are giving them. Because that's reality, and that's history. And they forced you to take Nikos Papapas, as you were forced to go indicted by Dimitris Papaggiopoulou on the issue of "NOVARTIS", which "NOVARTIS" in America paid 300 million in other countries for forty and fifty for the corruption of state and government officials in Greece. Because that's what happened. And you take him as well, saying it's a service, basing your construction on Mrs. Ryku, who her husband is already charged with a million euros and a half euros illegal prescriptions for nonexistent patients. This was the original prosecutor in the NOVARTIS scandal before Toulupaki went where the investigation, which her husband had done a million and a half euros illegally prescribing "NOVARTIS". And Mr Angelis, who spoke about Rasputin - and he does not get together - whoever goes now indicted because he refused to receive the account of a relative of a political person - and to say so, why did Markopoulos get up before and did his hand so, Abrahamopoulos was the relative - with the money that they had deposited there. And he refused to take it. That's what happened, isn't it? You don't forgive them like you don't forgive me. But for me, you didn't set up a special court. You took me to sue Poul and Stournara's lame, who, with his oral testimony, wrote him. And that's where justice moved. And here we submit it - here I tabled yesterday, the 'DOCUMENTO' has published it - evidence that the Prime Minister of the country has been making false 'where you' for the last four years and his wife and he has not been running chestnuts, you do not hear them. Here with the testimony, order pre-examination. The equivalency we talked about before! And be careful now: Your absolute humiliation is that nothing proved. And it looks out of your face, guys, right now. We've seen you. If I had a mirror showing my old student from Zakynthos, the face you've got and how much you believe today. "What do you do today" where you are, as an old man of yours said. And it seems from the fact that you brought Mr. Gerapitri, who came and sat down there, so that he wouldn't go to the government to answer Alexis Tsipras as Minister, not as a Member of Parliament. So all the previous ones go to hell, what you said here is Parliament deciding to defend. You have brought the modernistic reserve of the state of Maximos to stimulate the morality of the army, which only by your nature seems to be how overwhelmed it is! Of course, Mr Gerapetti did not succeed and he has simply demonstrated the political vatorlo that you are going through today! And I'm closing up with a word to get this over with. We've learned a lot of it. The delusion that we and I have had, have also been dismantled in relation to how the institutions of a favoured democracy can function. Of course, we're talking about Greece! We've learned a lot! We have learned that it is not enough to go to volumes of evidence that say "these journalists took so much free and fetched from CEDEFOP to melt the government." This current New Democracy MP from Rhodes took 80,000 euros on a site of his mother-in-law and his secretary, did the election campaign in 2014 and then closed it. It's not enough to do this to justice! They need deep institutional areas next time in order to return the regularity of justice and not to perpetuate the conflict in that country! And because we've learned a lot, the second time we're gonna do it, and we're gonna do it differently. And a word about my colleague and roommate in Moschato, Mr. Spaniaki, who came before. I, colleague, go to the cafeteria and gather people. When you come, they break!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u265	Thank you. We continue with Mr. Dimitris Ciridis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u266	Thank you, Mr President. I would like to mention and comment on some of the things that have been heard, starting with the permanent enclave of the representatives of the SYRIZA that they had to deal with a bad unregulated television scene, which absolutely had to be regulated and presented as'smooth' and 'uninfected' and all others as the bad old political system. I don't know if this old evil political system includes the late Leonidas Kirkos or Charilaos Florakis. Because it is to be recalled that all of this started in '89 with the coup d'état of the historic leaders of the Left. I do not now want to embarrass Mr Ragosi, Mrs Xinoyannakopoulou, Mrs Jakri and to remind you that Andreas Papandreou was also in this regulator, according to SYRIZA, a bad old television scene. And I don't know if Andreas belongs to the old evil or the fresh revolutionary, according to the others. Xenonanakopoulou, Jakris, Ragosi and 'company'. So one is that. You don't come from virginity! No matter how much you try to convince, you are not a virginity product. You are part of a system, and you have your responsibilities too. So stop swinging the finger with this arrogance! Secondly, you are constantly talking about 'bad' channels and the continuous targeting of the media. We've seen your own goodness! If your model is the "DOCUMENTO" or the state-run ERT, the impunity, pay the Greek taxpayer for your party propaganda, as happened in 2015-2019, I'm so sorry, but I won't get it! I won't take if that's the standard and the improvement in the media you're publishing and what you've brought. The old bad private channels paid. And they have not only paid taxes and contributions, but hundreds of millions of dollars in the public fund since 1989. You know it well. They also paid 2% of the known frequency charge, some tens of millions per year, and nonetheless equal or more of the value of the licences you gave. Sit down and count them to speak in real rather than to create impressions to justify our hostility. Thirdly, we have heard something unthinkable from your parliamentary representative. As he said, the media is not an institution but a private company. Really? What constitutionalist says that? Of course they're private business. But they are already being regulated by the Constitution in a particular way, with a supervisory authority, with a constitutionally guaranteed independent authority, the Television Council, precisely because freedom of choice is an integral part of our liberal democracy, which you do not want to forget. That's why you're resigning. Because the media are not just private businesses, but something much more valuable for the functioning of our culture. It's not an institution Mr. Raguss told us. Look at that, it's unpleasant when a colleague is being indicted and referred back. There's no doubt about it. That's why we need a measure and a cool one. And you saw that the committee ends up with a very balanced finding by rejecting one another and by moving only on the other category. Mr. Pappas brought us here completely irrelevant to the contested volumes with decisions of the S.H.E., so that he would not speak of the issue at issue. Our lad, our Levite, our pride! Are we gonna say a word about these SMS? And if that's not good, why does Mr. Poppas himself not bring us to see the SMS and open his personal file to reveal and shine the truth? And in any case, if Mr. Kalogritsa is a slander, why can't he be sued for slandering? Why didn't you take him to court and he doesn't have a single lawsuit, neither does he nor the other businesspeople for the heaviest things he incurs, but are we hiding? Mr Voutsis spoke - I listened carefully and respectfully to the President - about how the PSE was not set up. I oppose the responsibilities of his party, when it was in the opposition, as to why the PSE had not been set up and renewed. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] However, in any case, constitutionally guaranteed provides for a majority of 4/5, which means consensus on the part of the opposition. The majority cannot be imposed, it also needs the consent of the opposition. Is that bad in a liberal democracy? And that's how we got to the trick decision. You are talking about an article, the most important article of October 26, 2016 by the Council of State. Look, the framework for which you are leaving here - and I shall end, Mr President - is very specific and you do not understand it. It is a framework of systematic extra-institutional intervention and an attempt to divert. Since you came to the government, I will not refer to the anti-constitutional, at least to the substance, if not to the letter, not to the vote by the President of the Republic in December and January 2015 together with the criminal organisation of the Golden Dawn. You dare to refer to the 2015 referendum instead of forgetting it, as it is a reproach for our constitutional history! And good for the channels and the free journalists who resisted this diversion. You proceeded to intervention in justice. It's a well-known Papaggiopoulou case that's been in court. You flagged Papastavros and came today to talk to us about mud. Who? The ones who had the election spot on Papastavros! You spoke of criminalizing political life. Who? Those who from the Step of the House hung on the handkerchiefs - not a mere MEP, but your own Chief, then Prime Minister - an innocent Greek citizen! And you don't have the courage to apologize today! You who made "NOVARTIS"! Novartis is a scandal, of course! To say it, to be heard and to end with this crap and this candy! NoVARTIS scandal, but you two went by the scandal and made a construction. That's why you're resigning! And, of course, I come to control the media of the other pillar of our democracy. Of course you have found a real need to regulate the broadcasting landscape. But you, on the basis of the real need and on the pretext of the real need, have built a story of media control. And that's why you're leaving today. Look, the duty violation is the least you've ever given up. Next to it and above it there is the attempt to alter the culture and control of powers, the famous 'competent of power', as the Prime Minister told us in an unsuspecting time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u267	Please, Mr. Colleague, you must finish.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u268	I'm closing, Mr. President. We were really lucky, because we didn't only have one S.H.I.E., which he resisted. We've had your own lawlessness, graciousness, and graciousness in the way you went to do it. So you are culprits, anti-institutionals, and sloppy and unrelated to how to set up a conspiracy and thankfully for our Greek people and democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u269	Please, ladies and gentlemen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u270	The rest, I hope, will be able to tell the natural judge, as the Constitution provides and, as the government majority wants, not only, but the increased majority to go ahead. [[Noise - protests from SYRIZA Wing]] Be well, ladies and gentlemen! Thank you, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u271	Do you have these words, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u272	Nor do the previous speaker express me. But I can't stop a speaker saying what he wants. Nor did the previous speaker express me what he said, words or anything.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u273	That is a mistake, Mr President, and we do not respond to that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u274	Please. With respect for the speaker and his so-called freedom of speech to say what he wants, I have stood with the next gentleman. I'll beg you to calm down. I believe that all of us together should send a message to all Members of the parties, wherever they come from. We have to tell them that when they go to the Step of the House, they must be careful and behave so that they do not offend others, be they someone of SYRIZA or someone of the New Democracy or someone of PASOK. That's the message. I would ask Mr Kamine of the Change Movement to take the floor. You will now listen to Mr. Kamine and you will understand.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u275	But the previous speaker, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u276	Hey, I told you I respected both previous speakers. We'll be judging Mr. Kamine now. Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u277	Well, not compare me, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u278	Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u279	I'm patient, but there's a limit!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u280	Thank you, Mr President. I shall try, Mr President - and I believe I will do so - to drop the tons without giving any attention to the contents. I start, of course, from the Constitution, which is de facto obliged to monitor technological developments in the field of information and communication, as they affect not only the scope of the public debate, but also its quality. Today we are in the era of acne of social media. In fact, these instruments have some valuable characteristics for the democratic community. The first unmediated possibility that everyone will be given public address to an infinite number of readers, spectators and listeners is unprecedented in the history of humanity. The spontaneity of the individual voice, the autonomous power conferred on them by social media - to cross-check, confront or join thousands of other individual voices - strengthens citizens' participation in the public sphere. All this does not mean, however, that social media can substitute traditional media. Since the role of these two is complementary, they also obey different rules. Users of social media suffice to comply with general rules of law. Traditional media, however, are obliged not only to respect legality, but also to respect a specific ethics, with a view to pluralising information. They must, for example, cross-check their news or as the Constitution tells us to provide objective and equal information and news transmission. No relationship to the make news that finds the right ground in the original regulator field of social media. The irreversible and spontaneous public dialogue, therefore, on social media, corresponds to the subject of rules of democratic ethical public dialogue, which is, above all, handled through traditional media. For these reasons, in a modern democratic city, the role of the traditional media, despite their shortcomings and distortions, is irreplaceable. The criminal behaviour of Mr. Nikos Papapas is therefore found here in the fact that he attempted to manipulate the television market and when he did not succeed, he tried - but here he did - to create a SYRIZA-friendly form. All this happened through a sequence of actions, first with the infamous conclusion of the Florence Institute which devised the corset of the four channels in order to create an easily controlled oligopolistic television market. Then, with the anti-constitutional bypass of the guarantor of legality, the National Broadcasting Council. Finally, with the internal information which he improperly acquired and used to thrive on the proposal of his straw, Christos Kalogrisa. The conclusion of the Special Parliamentary Committee is in no way beyond doubt that the former Minister methodically designed, organised and coordinated a whole broadcasting company on the television market with a view to manipulating public policy. It is sad that the "first time on the left", attempted to resort to the same unfair means of controlling political life that had passed before and some of the representatives of the old-fashioned party. So the fact that we are now called upon to decide on the question of criminal responsibilities of a former Minister cannot second-hand the political responsibilities of the SYRIZA government. The criminal legislator's dry and incomplete vocabulary, as reflected in the crime of breach of duty under Article 259 of the Criminal Code, includes even the most insignificant misconduct of a civil servant. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So it does not allow us to realize the size of the attempt at the expense of democratic institutions, for which we will now decide to prosecute Mr Pappas. The procedure in committee did not, however, help to shed any light on the case. For reasons I cannot understand, the New Democracy has rushed to limit the list of witnesses and hasty - to close the process. So we were not given the opportunity to hear, for example, Mr Summer Hurry, so that we could find out why a colossal company like his own agreed to participate in this poor Operetta. The answer we know from other witnesses, because what was sought by the Huri Brothers' company, was to be treated favourably by the executive, that is to say, that, in its case, the law favourable to the shipping of forced law 89/1967 should also be applied. Finally, after a feast and SYRIZA did the favor in 2019 with L.4605. This unequivocal element of interlocutory has actually passed unnoticed. Ladies and gentlemen, as in other cases in the past, the procedure of the criminal liability of the ministers will not enlighten the Greek people about the real dimensions of the case. In the next constitutional review we should finally see seriously whether there is reason for our Constitution to remain a special procedure for seeking criminal liability for the ministers, which has never yet yielded the expected. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u281	Thank you. We continue with a small change between Mr. Dermenzopoulou and Mr. Constantinidis. In other words, Mr. Dermenzopoulou, Mr. Karathanasopoulos, Mr. Hatzigiannakis, Mr. Constantinidis, Mrs. Papakostas, and we will close with Mr. Kalamatianos. Mr. Dermenjopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u282	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today's speech in this House is different from the others. We are not in place for a draft law, but for a process that will once again highlight SYRIZA's policy and logic as a government. So we are talking about a case that is not about a mere abuse of power but about a strong attack on democratic processes and principles. The case of the former Minister of SYRIZA Nikos Papapas is not only linked to major political and criminal responsibilities but to moral principles and values. It is a case that runs counter to the principles of legality and transparency in acts of public interest. The question, therefore, is not just the prosecution or not of the offence of duty infringement, it is the continuing infringement of the procedure for a competition, for which SYRIZA himself had strongly expressed for many months that the procedure for granting television licences would be conducted by transparent and unequivocal procedures, with the absolute letter of the law, in compliance with all the agreements, of the individual terms. Of this, nothing happened or happened to the eyes of the world, who did not know that one can influence or organize virtual sales and purchases of television licences. But why do we claim that Nikos Pappa's reference is a necessary act? Justice always speaks with evidence and evidence, and these in this case are not called into question. There are acts and moves that prove to be constant interventions in the attempt to guide the competition, with the aim of getting Mr. Kalogritsa, a channel that he would control as Minister and his party, SYRIZA, in order, in the end, friends, who are looking at it to pass the policies and opinions they want and the way they want. How, then, can SYRIZA speak of transparency today when at all stages of the competition this involvement was involved? We must and must restore the confidence of the Greek people in their own state, but also build a state with a clear and strict accountability system for all, including, of course, the elected officials who, if they are shown to have harmed the public interest, should receive the necessary punishment. Mr. Pappas was not a mere minister throughout the whole process. He was the special ombudsman between SYRIZA and the party's favorite, Mr. Kalogritsa. In violation of any moral obligation to safeguard his title, that of the Minister of State and of the appointed Minister for Television Licences, he did exactly the opposite, that is, anything beyond his role. The evidence presented during the meetings is numerous and everything showed the same: a man mediated for everything, promoting policies and actions outside the institutional framework. The witness testimonies of the parties involved and the public positions of the canalarchs have indicated its involvement since the first time. I will not go into all the actions in detail. They have been discussed and fully analysed by the Members who participated in the committee. And the most kind, however, realizes that there was a involvement of Mr. Pappas. It was not simply acts to facilitate the parties concerned, it was acts to violate any legality of the procedure. The lack of respect for the political system is what we have to deal with. Let this case be the last reason for this. Its actions are therefore inconsistent with the principle of equality for everyone in a competition on equal terms for all, because the violation of a duty which has been brought to an end, beyond the legal framework, also entails a moral obligation to respect the institutions and principles and full respect for the law. If we could, then, outline where the breach of duty lies, it would be that Mr Papapas originally attempted to ensure that Mr Kalogris is given a television licence and that he would have a channel with third-partyAC shareholders, which would have been fully controlled by the Minister himself. What was the pursuit? To set up an incredible process to ensure himself, to ensure his party and to benefit from his full involvement in this project. Many procedures have not been followed, terms have been shaped in the beam and in the interest of the government at the time, under the tolerance of Mr Tsipras. So Mr Pappas' reference is not a vengeance act, it is an act of political responsibility. No one is considered above the law. This is absolute and unequivocal. It is a response to all those who question the role of justice, who challenge institutions and legal and democratic processes. It is an obligation for the political system to refer the case to justice, so that it can be immediately clarified. Finally, we should turn our backs on all those who have over time called into question the country's political system. Ladies and gentlemen, it is clear that between the New Democracy and SYRIZA there are two worlds and two different philosophies: on the one hand, the philosophy of our paralysis that unites with their policies Greeks and on the other hand, the philosophy of SYRIZA, that fundamental principles such as justice, equality and equal opportunities must be violated in order to maintain power. In politics, therefore, there are many issues that are not a matter of choice, and it is our moral obligation to do so. We will continue to fight for equality, equality, for policies focusing on justice and dignity in all areas. This is our non-negotiable position. The Greek people want everything to come to light and we want this requirement to be translated into action. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u283	Thank you. Mr Karathanasopoulos, Parliamentary spokesman for the Communist Party of Greece, has the floor now. Mr. Karathanasopoulos, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u284	Thank you, Mr President. If we want to put a title, a previous speaker said, we should probably choose the title: 'The game is fixed'. We are watching a play convenient for both the New Democracy and SYRIZA, a performance that serves both the plans of the New Democracy and SYRIZA. They rise curly both to cover a number of issues: Firstly, to cover the scandals, the complexity, corruption are children of the system itself, which are consistently serving both New Democracy and SYRIZA but also the Change Movement and other parties, because it is nothing but the results of the conflict between government management and economic interests. And all this symphony becomes under the lips and blessings of the urban state. All governments - and today and the previous ones - have consistently served the interests and needs of business groups with their policy. On this very basis, particular relationships between individual segments of the capital and individual business groups are being developed between the interests of the capital. This is precisely the basis for the acquisition, the involvement, the scandals are emerging. Secondly, with regard to the media, the New Democracy and SYRIZA want information to be checked and manipulated by capital. That is why the media are under control of strong business groups. And from this point of view, it is clear that any update is filtered in the light of the interests of capital, which is filtered in the light of the particular interests of the business groups held by the media. Therefore, it will not question a mass media agent located in a business group the economic activities of the group in question. On the contrary, he will try to promote them, to support them. Or even a series of political choices made by the government to serve their economic, business, investment plans. So the information is being made up to that point which does not, at best, in order not only serves, the interests of business groups and in this respect manipulates consciences, because it is just disgusting in any respect from these narrow contexts, trying to show that there is a way out for the benefit of the people and that this way out is in conflict with business interests. It's either slandering or covering up. In this respect, SYRIZA did not make any incision. This policy served, namely, to serve the interests of business groups active in the media, maintained control of information from business groups. What did he do as a government? He tried to make a redistribution of the "get" and precisely because of the impact of the capitalist crisis where a number of business groups could no longer cope with the maintenance of the media, so he would share the media in new business fireplaces and through this process would create an environment more favourable to the SYRIZA government, which would support the policy of the SYRIZA government and SYRIZA itself. So, in other words, he wanted to be friendly with his media government. This is exactly what the SYRIZA government did with the permit contest. The result of this whole situation and the procedure is revealing. For this very reason, and because business groups with the governments concerned serve their interests together, it is obvious that these parties have special treatment from the media. The information provided by the last PSE report on the reference of pluralism - by 2019 - shows the time-limits of the last decade, where we are actually observing what we are seeing? We note that the New Democracy, when it is a government, has rates higher than its electoral rate, when it is opposition, is referring to its electoral rate. Same with SYRIZA. Same with other parties that are useful to the system as "satellites", such as the Change Movement. But what is particularly revealing is the attitude of the media towards the JRC, where on the basis of the substance outside the election periods in all the other periods the promotion of positions, even as a presence, which is not equal, is far below the election rate. In fact, with great success the "stage" was extended between the sub-project of the JRC and its electoral percentages, the period of governance of the SYRIZA. This is where the largest "stage" appears. I shall state these, of course, after the end of my speech in the Minutes. The third issue they are seeking through this procedure. They are, of course, seeking to cover the scandals through the various committees of inquiry. In my village they say "Korakou eye korakou does not make" and in this, in the cover of the scandals, they are partners and the New Democracy and SYRIZA and the Change Movement. It's just heeling to get up. Because if that were not the case, then they would have accepted in the Constitutional Review, as our speaker said, the abolition of Article 86 on the responsibility of Ministers, and all cases would have been referred to the natural judge, to justice, not to the committees of Parliament, and not to the public prosecutors and to investigate the case on the basis of the aims or individual plans of each party and, in particular, the government majority. What, then, does the setting-up of these committees help? To develop bazaars. Clearly, there are bargains, hagglings between the parties about what to play and where to take the matter, but there are bargains between the parties and business interests during these committees. And this was one of the features of this particular, the last pre-review committee to consider Nikos Papapas' responsibilities during the tender procedure for television licenses. For that very reason, all these parties refused to abolish Article 86. Because it suits them to make the bazaars cover up the scandals. And from this point of view all the "Koreans" that fly, that "the knife will reach the bone", that "it will shed plenty of light", are other words to be loved. All the previous pre-reviews, all the previous committees of inquiry lead to this conclusion. Fourth issue. They make use of the functioning of these committees and of the debate that is taking place in these committees to facilitate the disorientation of the popular strata, a disorientation away from the developments, away from the escalation of the anti-population attack, away from the deterioration of the position of the workers and the wide-ranging populaces as a result of the current government policy and the responsibilities of the remaining anti-population parties in the implementation of this policy and, of course, to cover the strategic convergence that exists between the parties, New Democracy, SYRIZA and the Change Movement. That is why it is no coincidence that most of the bills have been passed by everyone, or at least by the tolerance of the rest of the parties, bills which implement the directions of the European Union, specify and serve the needs of business groups. And finally, through this process, we unfold a barren confrontation on a bipolar basis, to encapture the popular discontent between Scylla and Harybdis - now, of course, who is Scylla and who Harybdis is your choice, is not about this false dilemma - to entangle, in other words, and to crush people's needs in the mylophs of the capitalist system, in order to serve the capitalist exploitation and the profitability of business groups. The brief duration of the work of the pre-examination committee maintained this very climate of disorientation and unprecedented bipartite confrontation, but it also helped to highlight the special interest shown by the then Minister responsible for the media, Nikos Papas, in his effort and which was an attempt to achieve a successful outcome for the covert - because it was illegal - cooperation between the Kalogritsa family and the Huri family, so that they could take one of the four television licences. So his political responsibilities are undeniable, but these political responsibilities are not judged in courtrooms. And because there were no adequate and adequate evidence of criminal offences, the JRC in its vote on the majority conclusion of the event will be placed with the'residents'. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u285	Thank you. Now we continue with Mr Hatziganakis from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u286	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are playing the last act, at least parliamentary, because it seems to me that it is going to be a development - I do not know how great the future will be - in a pragmatism that we started a few months ago, less than expected. Because the truth is that it is true - and that is where Mr Kamine and Mr Karathanasopoulos are right - that this pre-examination is now closed. But it has not been closed for the reasons Mr Kamine implied. It closed because you have quite simply tried the majority, the New Democracy, to reduce the impact of the "Waterlo" you have claimed. I will try not to make any political comments, because I would remind you that this procedure, although we are the top political body, I mean Parliament's plenary, is of criminal nature. This pre-inquiry procedure and the decision we are called upon to take today as a parliament is whether a former Minister has committed no criminal offences. And we need to make that clear. Believe me, because I had luck or misfortune, let me take it as one wants, to be a member of this pre-review committee and to follow it from the beginning to the end, I tell you, indeed, that I could talk for a very long time and dismantle very easily one by one. Sadly, however, time is limited and I will stay in very specific things. So how did this pragmy come here? He came with a lawsuit. Or rather not just with a lawsuit - so you know it, because I am sure most people don't know it and certainly don't know it too much people who are watching us - but with multiple complaints from the 'TOXOT', i.e. a company of interests of the Kalogris family. The first lawsuit was only against the Huri, against some people with whom he had a civil and criminal dispute, as he himself had, Mr. Kalogritsas, because he thought his interests would be better met. When he saw or saw some others, unfortunately, on a political but political path, the deposit becomes complementary. And suddenly where he sees it, because he now had the irrevocable judicial decisions of the foreign courts, the referral court, that he cannot stand up to such a charge, he starts and shows additional proceedings and involves the name of Nikos Papapas with a charge, which just came to us - and I imagine he came to you first, because you, the thirty Members of the New Democracy, came and introduced it, but with a little different legal documentation - we have seen that even a first-year student in law read it, would laugh. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] And I will be caught by what Mr Karathanasopoulos and Mr Kamine have said about Article 86, about the responsibility of the Ministers. I wish that Article 86 did not apply in this case, I wish it had been amended! And I tell you on account of your knowledge, because as soon as she arrived in a judicial officer, she wouldn't even assess it, and this case would have already been filed. And we are now forced by this provision to play together in a pragmatism, to eat three months and to benefit the parliamentary and political life of our country with witnessing the particular gentleman who came to defend his own rights, as he thought, by dragging the entire political system of the country into what we experienced for two months. And thankfully it was only for two months! Fortunately, the proposal made by the thirty Members of the New Democracy have been made for two offences, for the bribery which I really do not know where you have found. As you have written it in your proposal, thankfully you took it back and did not refer Nikos Pappa to this funny case from which there could not be any benefit, no "gift" and thankfully you understood it and you took it back, because any judges in this country would see it, only the laughter would cause it. But you insist on the breach of duty, on the fault of the duty violation, and I say a flaw, because I will explain. I'm not just saying that for the seriousness of the crime. I say it and I'll make a guess about how you handle the case. You're bringing him into violation of duty, because it would be very simple to lose your policy if you admit that there is no violation of duty. The special court will see it, of course, if it arrives there, where I wish it would come to prove to be a perimeter and not to let it leak that "we wanted to, but the limitation times didn't leave us". I say this clearly to explain why it has shorter limitation periods for the flood. That is what I meant, not to tell us that "we wanted, we referred him down, but we did not catch up, it was not our fault, we did our debt". Because the violation of duty is a very specific offence and wants to breach a specific rule by the official and you do not write anything about it in your statement and you will send to the special court a case without mentioning what duty he has committed, while the case law of the Ice Bay - you know it very well - and why you simply did not have what else to do in "Waterlo" what you claimed. You'll drag him, but in my view it's a special petition for Nikos Papapas, it's a merchandise for SYRIZA that he wanted to mess with the media, and I really hope you don't think that you're going to write down this particular case or come out to prove something about his duty violation and I'm closing up with it. In order for there to be a breach of duty, there should have been any intervention in the contest. No witness testified anything like that in the pre-examination. Not even Mr. Kalogerits told questions of our own, he didn't say anything about a contest that even had a favor for that particular businessman. Not one. I don't know where you saw it. I think I explained it. It is purely political to prosecute both from it and SYRIZA and Nikos Pappas will come out completely vindicated and fully reinforced. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u287	Thank you, Mr. Hatziganakis. The speaker of the New Democracy, Efstathos Konstantinides, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u288	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Christos Kalogeritsas, also known as the'red contractor', accuses his close friend, then Minister of State Nikos Pappas, that using him as a'strong man', has taken his participation in the tender for television licenses in order to obtain a channel that the Minister himself would control for the purpose of political support of SYRIZA and that he has even provided him with funding from an Arab-based technical company based in Athens. What emerged from the material of the preliminary examination? That by invoking a pre-timed sub-contract, without any negotiation and without the technical and financial offer from the Arab contractor, sub-contracted more than 40m euros was awarded to Mr Kalogrica's technical company, without any prior relationship or cooperation between them. It's just the time of the deal. In fact, after a brief meeting of the parties on a boat in Porto Heli, allegedly coordinated by Mr. Pappas, through suspicious and incriminating meetings at Mr. Kalogrisa's company, an advance of EUR 3 million was made, without any guarantee, without any guarantee, and without even knowing the name of the other party. But what are the evidence of the case? The witnesses who were examined and who participated in the proceedings and confirm Mr. Kalogritsa's charges, as well as telephone messages and e-mails. "My Niko, my pleasure, my Lion, the days have passed, so there will be no guarantee. I'm on it again. If we don't talk about Porto Heli. Without a guarantee, where are we going?" What was this guarantee meant for, if not for television licences? "Take Summer to press London first because it's for the Greek government." Does Mr. Pappas answer anything about these messages? Not even today. At the same time, as the witness, Mr. Lianos, a worker in the Arab company, was given an internal order for a loan, not an advance of 3 million to Mr. Kalogrisa, which appears to be following a previous message from Mr. Pappas to Mr. Kalogrisa. "Toni Lianos will be waiting for you at the Arab company's office tomorrow at 9:00 a.m. tomorrow." In addition, communications were produced, where representatives of the Arab company refer alternatively to a subcontracting agreement. They say they don't want to leave a trace of the final transaction. They speak of "white house" and "white porscha", a sacred person in Arabic who, according to witnesses, is attributed to Mr. Pappas. If it was subcontracting, why should that be an alternative? Why can't we keep a trace of a transaction if it was legal? Who is the 'white house' and the 'white porscha', if not the person who seems to coordinate this whole case? What was the result of these actions through various bank routes, 'triangular' corporate transactions and at unprecedented speeds of money ending up with Christus Kalogerica's son's company and guaranteeing his participation in the competition for television licences and the Arab company retreat from the cooperation, due to the noise caused and the guarantee was suppressed because of Mr Kalogerica's financial insolvency? Then Mr. Pappas seemed to have fed Mr. Kalogritsa to other possible partnerships, Mr. Kontomenas and Mr. Marinakis. In this respect, the first stated publicly that Mr. Kalogritsas asked him for 51% of his television station, while the second one that after Mr. Papas closed them, Mr. Kalogritsa asked him for a loan of 20 million to complete the acquisition of the channel. There is indeed the relevant message from Mr Papapas to Mr Kalogritsa. "I spoke. He's calling today. Cod's request." - Who's Cod, if not Mr. Constantinas? - "see you. He says what we say." Nor does Mr. Pappas deny that. But later on, when Mr Kalogratis creates pro-government 'DOCUMENTO', he says, at the request of Mr Pappas, there are again unsuitable communications. Grandpa: "I hear about closure. Be careful.’ Kalogis: 'These do not belong to us'. "Observe" what do you mean? 'I love you.' Poppa: "If it closes, be careful". Finally Mr Kalogeritsa left without even taking his chair from 'DOCUMENTO'. Are these talks Mr. Pappas from this Step previously made with all publishers and canalarchs, as badly he tried to convince us before? What about these deafenings, ladies and gentlemen? When does this happen? Is there some kind of time? Oh, no. During the competition for television licences. But what is the credibility of the parties? "Daravetzis," said SYRIZA's rapporteur. Then what did the Minister have to do, not talk, but make recommendations and suggestions and direct a 'daravetier'? On the other hand, Mr Papapas has given bad recommendations to other cases involved. The question, however, is that, unfortunately, Mr Kalogritsa's words are also confirmed by other facts. Is the evidence sufficient to carry out the criminal prosecution? It's shocking, and no one can get over it. It does not even dare to challenge them, an ex-Prime Minister, much more to distribute their blackmailers. Were these acts appropriate to achieving the illegal effect? Undoubtedly, yes. The Minister in charge of acts and omissions violated the provisions of the competition and its service duties, while there was obvious fraud and a political and economic purpose. "Why not bribe?" He's telling us SYRIZA. Let him look at that little piece of paper, the note he's looking for and Mr. Kalogris can't find and he might even find it, which refers to the percentages of participation in the television licence. I therefore believe that the committee was in a dilemma in relation to the accusation. To go diffusively, do additional evidence arise in the investigation or conjugates as imposed on it by criminal proceedings? It did the second in honor of its members. In the debate by SYRIZA we heard about the economy, about culture, about the pandemic, but we did not hear convincing answers about the accusation. General complaints and flaming and garnishing by his rapporteur and a little dirty 1989. I would remind you, however, that that procedure concerned referral back to the special court, while the present exercise of criminal proceedings. I would also remind you that in that process up to thirty-five Members of Parliament, among them your political forefathers voted in favour of the referral of the controlled politicians, not accepting the retreat. You made her a delivery.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u289	Thank you very much. The reason now is for the New Democracy Member, Mr Papakostas - Paloura Catherine, and then we will end with the SYRIZA Progressive Alliance Mr Dionysios Kalamatiano. Mrs Papakostas, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u290	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, he was'symbolling the mountain of interlocutory and giving birth to a mouse, the pre-examination', said in a statement by Mr Nikos Pappas, for all of us, who, as he was saying, invested very politically in this so-called fiasco. But all of you, ladies and gentlemen, of SYRIZA, have, in recent years, made flags of your impartial arguments, the flamings of supposedly political persecution targeting your former Minister. Unfortunately, for both you and the Pope, the New Democracy Government is not investing in political degeneration by means of the political killing of characters, as you did, for example, in the case of 'NOVARTIS'. On the contrary, it is investing in independent judicial investigation on the basis of specific evidence, which has full evidence within the meaning of the law and on the basis of specific facts which constitute, on the basis of legal science, a sign that certain criminal offences are committed. Your rhetoric, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, about supposedly political persecution, now goes beyond the limits of political atrocities and political indifference, and is an affront to the Greek people themselves. Do you really have the impression that we will remain silent in front of the oracle of the revelations about the action of Mr Pappas and provide him with political coverage of realities, which are serious signs of committing criminal offences? Do you honestly think that we will rinse Mr Pappa's crimes, effectively prohibiting justice from investigating his behind-the-scenes action? But why are you, as well as Mr Pappas himself, afraid of the crisis of Greek justice? Do you know why your former State Secretary for Justice is no longer there to influence and threaten judges and prosecutors in the performance of their duties, as was the case in your own administration, the first time left? Don't worry. With the Government of New Democracy, respect for the separation of powers and, above all, the independence of Greek justice was restored. But is that why you are all trembling about the idea of judicial investigation and going into divisive rhetoric and political muddling, because today Greek justice has all the guarantees to do independently of political intervention? The Greek people have the right to learn the truth about what happened in the background in relation to the competition for television licences, a background that once again was a protagonist, as was in the dialogues with Mr. Sabbi Minonis, who else, the closest partner of the former Prime Minister, Alexis Tsipras, Nikos Papapas. This time, of course, the shop has a different name and becomes a "white house". However, the way it works remains the same dark one, that is to say, the creation of a paramedical mechanism in the media, which will serve the shop and, of course, what else, obviously, the pursuits of the former Minister and the political propaganda of SYRIZA. After the revelations during the preliminary investigation, Mr Tsipras himself has to explain. Was he acting autonomously, his closest partner, his ‘alter ego’? Did he act in full consultation with him, as everyone sees, and in any case does he take responsibility? Replies which have unfortunately not been given today, but which need to be received by the Greek people. All deposits and documents at the meetings of the Committee of Inquiry showed evidence to the detriment of Mr Pappas for the offence of breach of duty. "Our Nikos asked me for it," says Mr. Kalogritsas. "I was the one that put my name on, as a front, just the name. I, as a disciplined party, entered there, because that's how I learned from the KKE, to discipline myself while I was there." The target was obvious to Mr. Pappas. Using as a front and liar his favourite and party disciplined Kalogerica to promote SYRIZA's political positions and perform, muddling his political opponents. "Did the sun put me in a doll in the summer of 2016? I hated the Arabs, who didn't even like me, and I went and found them to give me 50 million of work." The statement by the witness Kalogerica about the meeting and contacts with Arabs in Porto Heli is characteristic and is evidenced by the sms that Mr. Papas exchanged with Mr. Kalogerica. "My Nico, my pleasure, my lord, because I'm leaving for Porto Heli, but I didn't understand and I need to know a lot about it. Make sure before I go, you let me know, because if we don't talk, we won't. I went to Porto Heli by command and a teacher. You say, you decide, you do what you say, you guide me, whatever you say, and when you say." The Pope had already spoken with the Huri, Mr. Kalogericas presents us for Mr. Pappas. "Everything Nikos did. He started by hiring people in the newspaper, asking for certain journalists to be hired, so that Mr. Vaxevanas "DOCUMENTO", managed the shares of the channel and what percentage I would get as the front. He decided about everything. He was telling me the decisions and I was persuasive." Even in Maximo, he met with Nikos Papapas and other third parties, presents us on the subject of television licences. And all those who met, he met them at the command of Nikos's favorite. "He made me meet and went to Marinakis, Konstantinas and others." And by just mentioning in the tender procedure the witness Kalogericas testifies that Nikos Papapas decided and even arranged for the amount needed to obtain the television licence from Kalogerica in the contest. In the middle of the night, and something came to my house, Nicos, and he says, "Okay. Fifty million plus but 5%. Let's not get out of this. If we leave, we'll see what we'll do. We have to discipline ourselves in this order. I wrote the order, gave it to my son's pocket, went inside to the people involved in the matter. I testify that the channel that we would have taken in my son's name wasn't a channel for us. It was in our name, and that channel would go to the one Mr. Pappas would point out at the end. Artemio and I were doing what the Pope told us. I've been ordered to pay up to 50 million plus 5%. I gave 51%. When you say who gives the orders, you will all put the Pope." Of course, this action by Mr Pappas is not just today. Support for friendly media, the creation of new media and the placement of urban media began to become easier and more evident as SYRIZA was approaching power. Who forgets Mr.Davarakis' revelations when he interviewed "LIFO" on 6-10-2017 revealed that the site "www.porta.gr" was built on the initiative and funding of SYRIZA while it was still in the office opposition and continued to be funded by him and after the takeover of power. Referring to features when he was asked who he was, he said that it was Mr. Pappa's office.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u291	Finish it, please. Go to the last paragraph.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u292	I shall conclude, Mr President. "This is a priest, there's a priest, everywhere a priest," says the angering people. Whatever stone you can raise, whatever it has, even the simplest scandal smell in the country, all the cases that have dealt with our justice and home in the last five years have always been a political participation, which he hears in the name of Nikos Poppas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u293	Shut up with this. Please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u294	The Government of the New Democracy will therefore not follow SYRIZA, which will give a "declaration to furs" to resolve its political differences. For these illegal actions by Mr Papapas, the only clear solution is to be judged by Greek justice.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u295	Please, finish it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u296	Remember, the guilty man is afraid of a judgment. The innocent just seeks her. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u297	Thank you, too. Listen to something. I don't know if you were through the morning or if you have an image. I don't want to read everybody's time for personal reasons. Don't complain. He would've made me name names, and he shouldn't. In any case, the Bureau always has a flexibility and it makes it easier for colleagues to do so without breaking the working hours. We're very good in time. Some may have come now and they haven't seen what time the previous ones used. And on the one hand, and on the other. So to be honest and equal. We conclude the long-time meeting with SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Kalamatiano. Mr. Kalamatian, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u298	Thank you, Mr President. The vote will take place tomorrow at 11.30 a.m. The completion of the pre-review sessions has not only demonstrated, but we would point out how the conservative party is thinking and doing in our country over time. Split practices, attempt to prosecute political opponents, seek to draw political profits from this whole process. Efforts to prosecute Nikos Papapas, shadows for the SYRIZA government. Who? Those who managed to put order on a twenty-five-year-old anomaly in the operation of private television in our country, unlike the Constitution. Those who collected hundreds of millions of euros for the Greek public and secured hundreds of jobs in private channels. These hundreds of millions of euros, to come to today, return them or return them at every opportunity, in the way you legislate. It is clear that you are trying to shadow the only government that dared to force private channels owners to pay for frequencies. The only government that forced them to pay for the property of the Greek people they use. You want to get the refresh from the Pappa law that configured the TV scenery and laid rules. The same case, however, the indictment itself and your narrative is unclear, it is dead and it was, of course, completely unanswered. The charges against Nikos Papapas collapsed one by one. The basic charge, the felony of bribery, you have in no way been able, in any way, to witness, with no evidence to support it and have been forced to withdraw it. You hit a wall and had to retreat. Your election cries became pre-reasonable whispers. You hit the wall of truth and reality. The entire procedure has been established and it has proved that the entire indictment is completely unfounded. The indictment is legal and virtually unmistakable. That's why members of the committee have lost their temper and have confessed that the only witness involved in a political person, Mr. Kalogritsa, has given them nothing to support the charge. They were begging for something, and that wasn't there. There was nothing. The other witnesses did not see or hear the involvement of former Minister Nikos Pappas. But even Mr. Kalogeritsa, a unique witness, once again, who is wholly involved in the former Minister, has made contradictory, unreliable statements that have been completely unreliable. The public tender for television licences was conducted with absolute transparency. Everything's been posted online. Each candidate had access to his candidate's file. Mr Papapas previously brought a documentary whole here, with dozens of decisions of the Council of State, which considered the legality of the procedure and the competition to be legitimate at every standpoint in the case. You question this even. The witnesses' documents and testimonies proved that Mr.Ioannis Vladimir Kalogericas put 8 million months before the competition and paid 6.5 million, a total of 14.5 million, i.e. to participate in the competition. He paid 60 million to be tax-free, okay. He said responsiblely - responsiblely - that he did not borrow and that he had as a due share capital of his company to participate in the tender for television licences. The entire false history of the New Democracy is based solely on the contradictory unreliable and unreliable testimony of a businessman who has been convicted of a decision by an international court to return the 3 million and is clearly trying not to do so. A private case made her political and criminal. We also went to the Bank of Greece's report. I listened to my colleague before reading the statements. What did the Bank of Greece say? This report basically put a tombstone across the indictment. As soon as the money was released from public service, they went to Mr. Kalogrisa and he put it in his pocket. Just clean. He used them to serve his own purposes. So the charge of alleged bribery fell completely. You have had to accept and admit that the basic category of bribery, not only cannot be established, but there are no signs at all of this crime being committed. What's the matter with you? The charge of alleged breach of duty. The case-file and the acts of the former Minister have revealed no evidence of any such offence. The opposite is true. I ask you, ladies and gentlemen - are you legal here too - what is the breach of duty? The fact that by the acts and the Pappa Act they have invaded or are going to invade - if you let it invade the state funds of 320 million? What is the truth of a duty violation? Wasn't the law and the terms of the competition not inappropriately respected? Has the Minister tried to change something to benefit any of the participants? The same conditions, did they not apply to everyone? Wasn't the solicitor declared to be inferior, according to the law and the contest, the so-called chosen one? Did the so-called chosen, the so-called front? Has it not ratified the legitimacy of the whole process in the Council of State with dozens of decisions? I'm looking into your eyes and I'm asking who broke his duty? The one who dared after twenty-five years to put order in this story of television licences, or those who for twenty-five years did nothing to implement the Constitution? Who? I heard about Patras tower, some colleagues. But, well, do you dare talk about Patras - Tower and involve it in this case, that you canceled the contractors, who were building them, and this work is in the air again and that the people of Elijah are at risk? You know that there was no privileged treatment. Did the Attica Bank's witness not say in the pre-examination that there was no privileged treatment of Mr. Kaloggrisa for this work? You weren't there? Didn't you hear them? Didn't you read them in the Minutes and say about the tower Patras? Is that possible? You blew it in the air! So no matter how hard you try, no matter how much you pull the case out of your hair, the truth can't be hidden. Minister Pappas, not only did he not damage the public, but instead it benefited hundreds of millions of euros. This you can't digest, you can't stand it, because you keep the rules and regulate the field. I understand that you do not have the political courage to admit that neither the objective nor the subjective status of bribery nor the violation of duty is fulfilled. It would be humiliating for you to have such a political defeat. But you know that the attempt at moral and political extermination of Nikos Papapas and the spiral of the SYRIZA government has collapsed with a pitfall. The pre-review committee proved to be a fiasco for you. It is undeniable that the public interest has been served and fully protected. Your decision seems to be sincere. You want to refer the Minister of a government that defended the public interest. You want to be the means to hear the voice of the interlocutory, to hear who tries to run the test in that country and how he troubles anyone standing across the street. But the people see, the people know and the people judge strictly. As much as you're trying, you can't hide the truth. The truth is, you're referring Nikos Pappa, not because he damaged the public interest, but because he defended it and benefited it. I invite you to vote, ladies and gentlemen, on the basis of your conscience, on the basis of the law and on the basis of reason and of the defence of democracy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u299	Thank you, Mr. Kalamatiano. Let some people who were protesting please time and regardless of the fact that I was late to start time, to be at least fair. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the distributed findings of the Special Parliamentary Committee for a preliminary examination of the investigation of offences that may have been committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and then of Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information by 09-07-2019, Mr Nikolaos Pappas, in the performance of his duties, on whether or not the proposal on the prosecution of the former Minister is accepted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u300	Ladies and gentlemen, a secret vote will be taken on the proposal of the Committee on the alleged act of prosecution, as defined and specified in the above committee's findings and a decision to not prosecute the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and then Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information by 09-07-2019, Mr Nikolaos Papapas. In accordance with Rule 157(3) and Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, the vote will be taken at the successive turn of Members, exclusively from the northern and southern door of the Chamber to three groups of people in alphabetical order, who will leave the west door of plenary to Perstyl. Each team will be here every half an hour to vote. In particular, the first group from Mr. Avdela Apostolos to Mr. Calliano Ioannis will vote from 17.30' to 18.00'. The second group from Mr. Kalogannis Stavros to Mr. Moraitis Athanasios from 18.00 to 18.30. The third group from Mr. Nicholas Andreas to Psychogios Georgios from 18.30' to 19.00'. In order to carry out the secret ballot, a large dossier containing the ballot shall be distributed at the time of your entry to the plenary sitting, in which the denounced act of prosecuting, according to the committee's proposal, a white ballot and a white file in which the ballot will be placed. Apart from the alleged act for which prosecution is sought, the words ‘NEW’, ‘THEI’, ‘OR’, ‘ORI’, ‘ORI’ shall be noted. The vote shall be expressed by cross under each of the above words. Any other symbol, ‘X’ or ‘V’, which does not include alphabetical characters, if it has been voted on in the complained act recorded on the ballot, shall be accepted, in accordance with the established practice to date. Members who wish to vote in favour of the proposal to prosecute the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016, and then Digital Communications and Information Policy by 09-07-2019 Mr Nicholas Papapas, will cross their preference under the word "NAI". Members who wish to vote against the proposal to prosecute former Minister Nikolaos Papapas will cross their preference under the word 'OH'. Members who wish to vote for 'ARTONS' will, with a cross, note their preference under the word 'ARTONS'. If there is no vote marked with a cross or with any other symbol, such as ‘X’ or ‘V’, in any of these three words ‘NAH’, ‘NOH’, ‘PAH’, the ballot shall be considered null and void. In accordance with paragraph 10 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, in the event of disagreement between the number of votes cast and the number of votes cast, the count shall be repeated. Although after this new count, the number of ballots is higher than the number of votes cast, they are destroyed before the sorting of the number of ballots equal to the number of additional ballots. The vote will be recorded in the minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u301	In making the name of each Member, he will come to the vote, where he will place his file with his vote in the respective ballot and the Members will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Speaking on the list of MPs and voters will be carried out independently of an alphabetical order at the end of the speech of the Members of this group on the grounds of the proper functioning of the procedure. With regard to voting, the Rules of Procedure, pursuant to Rule 70A, provide that fellow Members or members of the Government may participate in the secret ballot. In this case, before the vote, their votes will be delivered to the Bureau in the small envelope, which must be closed. This closed file will be enclosed in a larger second file - also closed - which will list the name of the Member or the member of the government who will vote by written vote. The dossier will be accompanied by a transfer document addressed to the President of Parliament. I would also like to inform you that the Bureau has sent sealed files by letters of formal votes in accordance with Rule 70A of the Rules of Procedure of the House by fellow Members. Does the House agree?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u302	The House therefore agreed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u303	Parliamentary Thesprotia Mr Yoyakas Vassiliou from New Democracy, MP Evros Gara Anastasia from the Radical Left - Progressive Alliance, is on the list. The voters are also called on to vote for Mr.Mellas Ioannis from the New Democracy, Mr. Ilias Kalamianos Dionysius - Charalambos from the Radical Left Coalition - Progressive Alliance. In accordance with paragraph 6 of Rule 73 of the Rules of Procedure, Mr Athanasios Bouras, Mr Athanasios Bourras, Mr V Vice-Chairman of Parliament and Mr V. West Attica of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group. I would ask the voters to come to the poll. I repeat that the Members on the vote will confirm, stating the name of each of the Members who is voting. Please start reading the list for the first group, which, as we mentioned, starts from Mr. Apostolos Avdela to Mr. Ioannis Callianos. As an exception, and for a very serious reason, I would ask that my colleague, Mr Intellectual, take the lead. Also, if there is another colleague who has a very good reason, I would ask him to take the lead.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u304	Is there a colleague who didn't hear his name? Nobody. Ladies and gentlemen, the vote is adjourned and I would ask the voters to take the counting and sorting of the ballots and exporting the result.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u305	Ladies and gentlemen, I have the honour of announcing the outcome of the secret vote in this House. A total of 277 Members voted. 277 ballots were found in the polls. I won 276 ballots. Undone 1 ballot. White none. In particular, in respect of the alleged infringement of a dominant position in respect of which a breach of Article 259 of the Penal Code has been committed, they have voted on a number of points, namely that of breaches of Article 259 of the Code. 'THEY', for the referral of Mr Pappa, 178. For the non-reference, 86. 'ARTONS', 12 colleagues. Following the outcome of the secret ballot in accordance with the provisions of Articles 86 of the Constitution, in particular paragraph 3, Article 153 et seq. the Rules of Procedure of the Parliament, in particular paragraphs 2 and 3 of Article 157 and Article 13126/2003 ‘Prime Responsibility of Ministers’, in particular paragraphs 1, 2 and 3 of Article 6, as applicable, Parliament accepting the conclusion and proposal to prosecute the ‘Special Parliamentary Committee for preliminary examination of any offences committed by the former Minister of State from 23-09 to 05-11-2016 and subsequently Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information up to 09-07-2019, Mr Nikolaos Papapapas in the performance of his duties’, decided to prosecute the act as described in the abovementioned finding recorded in the minutes of the plenary session of 29 June 2021 and forms an integral part of that decision, as well as in the minutes of today's sitting. In particular, Parliament's plenary decides to prosecute the former Minister of State from 23-09-2015 to 05-11-2016 and then to proceed with Digital Policy, Telecommunications and Information until 09-07-2019 Mr Nicholas Pappas for the following criminal act: ‘Failure to act in a serial and consistent manner’, that is to say, infringement of Article 259 of the Criminal Code. Ladies and gentlemen, following this result, I will inform you that in accordance with Articles 86(4) of the Constitution 158(1) and (2) of the Rules of Procedure and Article 8 of Law 3126/2003 on criminal liability of Ministers, we will proceed with the procedure provided for in the above provisions on the formation of the Court of Justice. The President of Parliament will send a letter to the Minister of Justice Mr Konstantinos Tsiara to send a list of members of the Ice Arrow, the Prosecutor of the Ice Arrow and the Council of State, who are legally qualified, in order to put the five regularly and three alternate members of the Judicial Council together with his alternate. The above conclusion is recorded in the Minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u306	Ladies and gentlemen, I would ask the House to authorize the Bureau to confirm the Minutes of today's sitting.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u307	The House has given the mandate requested. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-14-S1-commons.u308	With the consent of the House at 19.56 the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Thursday, 15 July 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, in accordance with the special agenda distributed.
