ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] We are entering the agenda of the LEGISLATIVE WORK Continue the debate on the principle and the articles of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: 'Study upgrade, strengthen education and other provisions'. We will start where we stopped yesterday with Mrs Angeliki Adamopoulou. Then the third cycle begins. Mr Liupis and Mrs Auger will speak and then the Minister for her speech has asked for the floor. I say it for those who want to hear it. Know that after 20, twenty-five minutes it will take the floor. Mrs Adamopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u2	Thank you very much, Mr President. First of all, Minister, it would be very interesting to explain to us what the educational system is that applies to the Ministry of Education's conference rooms. I am referring to this because there are certain that various apprentices, who do not want to improve education but to impose the ideological mark of the New Democracy, are gathering. We are talking here today about the minimum import base and the thousands of fewer importers. Unfortunately, you didn't respect anything. You have taken children, who have been under the weight of disastrous incarceration for two years, but also the pressure of diffuse fear, and you have done them experimentally, because you too, Mrs. Minister, had to sign a law, stay in history with a particular law, such as Mrs. Diamantopoulou and Mr. Contoyannopoulos. So you yourself, who are constantly talking about the pandemic situation, about the battle with the pandemic and about the emergency situation, are those who at this juncture added much more pressure on the backs of children. You didn't even stand to wait until the pandemic is stabilised and you finally succeeded in your cause. You will be remembered by the students forever and you will receive it as a memory in the future. Fortunately, at least for children from the people's neighbourhoods, such as the Peristeri, good time, Prime Minister Mitsotakis found the solution, that these children are destined not to enter the university, but to follow another speciality, to become coolers, plumbers, lift maintenanceers, cleaners, storagers. Besides, these children are mentioned by the Prime Minister when he says that they cannot and should not all enter university. In other words, for New Democracy officials there are ever more educated people, citizens with qualifications! Alas! This will be a great disaster for the country, because the fewer these "annoying" graduates, who will also ask for gains according to their qualifications, the better for the grandmakers, cowards of the Great Maximus. The fewer the citizens who have high-level knowledge, who know to think, to have critical thought, to analyse, to better compose developments and to question what they are trying to confuse the well-deserved media, the better for the government. It would be of great interest, of course, to tell us what the New Democracy colleagues who are parents have chosen for their children, because it is very easy and hypocritical to say that the other children should become cleaners, be sobads, and your children should have the same degree and certificate. How many of you, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, have you sent your children to an IEK, to a professional high school, for example, become natural gas technicians, cherries, bakery technicians? It is worth tabling your own experiences because on sites and newspapers we see you pose next to your children in graduation ceremonies, to state proud that your children are graduates of luxurious schools or universities of high prestige abroad or Greece. And you do well to be proud of your children. It's very legitimate. But there is nothing legitimate about phasing out behind all this window, that your children have every right to study because you know that they will have more chances, but the children of the rest will have to make a life of the Lanja. Invite also the university's connection to the market at all times. First of all, the university is a place of harvesting, distributing, cultivating critical thinking, harvesting knowledge, it is a cradle of ideas and progress and then anything else. Young people should first of all study to learn to decode reality, improve it, change society for the better. And what's better isn't the market gonna tell us, but the social needs. So you say they'll study something, but then they won't find a job. Did you consider your responsibility for the fact that our young people can't find a job? Have you considered how much you fulfil your constitutional obligation to ensure that the work of the citizens is done? What you've achieved is a trick. It is the increase in unemployment rates, the elasticization and the mobilization of working conditions, the Brain drain, the T-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-t-e. You succeeded in making us Europe's wardrobes. So the market you've been building for decades has failed miserably. You want to reach the bottom and the education. And I'll tell you why you're hypocrites. What is the connection between private colleges and the market? Why isn't that a problem? But it's because that's where parents touch them fatly with your college friends. That's where the money's worthlessness talks. So if they have parents to pay for children, why should the child be killed and stressed to go to university? She'll go to college and in three years she'll get a degree equal to the four-year-olds of the public university. That is ultimately the logic and attitude of excellence, that money opens doors. But at the time when you are imposing the bayian, thatst perceptions, the change of model emerges worldwide, even from countries that are socially and economically the most enthusiastic supporters of cynical capitalism such as the United States. The world is moving fast. You put it backwards. What I must say, of course, is, as a practical example of your perception of education, is the social crime that is being committed in the Municipality of Athens by the mayor of Athens. Bakoyannis - it has to do with my region, and that is why I mention - who goes to the only parks in the neighborhoods with green, the only lungs, cut the trees with opaque and fast track procedures, without any public consultation to put in tea canners which will house pre-school children. It will enclose children in a container of minimum square meters, because it wants to degrade public education and lead to private education as well. The most important thing, however, and the worst it does, is that it shrinks the little green in the center of Athens. We call on him to withdraw these decisions and to enter into public dialogue with the citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u3	Mr Athanasios Ljupi has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u4	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies Ministers, ladies and gentlemen, Mrs Adamopoulou, I would like to tell you that my son has finished the GEL and then followed up the humble PESAL that you are saying to exercise one of these inferior professions you mentioned. And we encourage him and me, and his mother. I don't think what you said about us all is true. So, all of us who have studied ourselves and our children in a public school have a clear good view of Greek schools, teachers and the level of students. However, the educational process remains largely strangled in the past, without having succeeded in integrating modern trends, methods, needs and capabilities. This is not only about the level of knowledge that we can offer our children, but about the overall educational experience that will shape characters, future citizens, scientists, people. The first major change concerns education structures themselves. Executive positions shall be created with an educational role, such as quality supervisors of education. The role of training advisers whose positions are significantly increased to eight hundred out of five hundred forty. The selection of directors now plays an important role in assessing them. The JESCs are converted into multidisciplinary evaluation, advisory and support centres and are further strengthened with five hundred or fifty psychologists and fifty-five social workers. The second change concerns the much-discussed evaluation. In their vast majority, around 90%, European countries have introduced an evaluation system for their teachers. In Greece for many years the word evaluation was considered by almost a taboo. Why is the concept of evaluation so foreign to our mindset? Probably because we fear that it is accompanied by arbitrary or even bias. But when we have a framework that ensures a fair and merited evaluation of teachers, is it not that any responses are anything but obsessed with the past, with no progress and improvement? And what message do we get to our children by showing them that adults are not judged, make no mistakes, try not to improve? The evaluation of teachers is not a means of intimidation, it is not linked to a punishing effect. It is only one way for every teacher to gain knowledge of his positive and negative elements and then to have means of improvement and training at his disposal. In this context, everyone's assessment is mandatory. Teachers shall be evaluated by the Education Adviser and the Director of the School Unit. They are evaluated with a classified description from "excellent" to "unsatisfactory", in relation to their teaching and teaching work, the pedagogical climate, the management of order and their service consistency. If in a field of evaluation the teacher receives the ‘unsatisfactory’ qualification, he shall follow a compulsory training programme. In any case, the evaluation shall affect the selection procedure for posts in training staff. The training executives themselves are anonymously assessed by their subordinates, and if they receive a poor assessment they are replaced. The next major change concerns autonomy in school units. The school units have so far been passively applying the guidelines of the Ministry of Education. This is changing today. The Ministry of Education makes a progressive change, reducing its own central role and giving much of the decisions about planning at schools themselves. For the first time, there is freedom of movement for teachers to choose school books, the multiple book. The Library and Digital Library are set up. It is intended to access students in a variety of manuals, in an effort to develop critical thinking rather than simply memorize them. The way in which the students are assessed during the four months changes. Many choices are given to teachers so that the latter can judge the level of each student's effort using other methods than the test, such as individual or group work, even the innovative model of the inverted class. The Director shall undertake annual intra-school training, the award of teaching and off-teaching work, and shall become an evaluator of educational staff. School facilities can be used out of time to organise an activity or a seminar. The school units acquire a website and are also accessible to disabled people. Internationally, for several years, the value of PISA, a mechanism under the cover of the OECD, which allows us to draw conclusions on the education system through the evaluation of pupils, has emerged. This valuable instrument is established at national level with today's bill. The students of the Faculty and High School participate in the examinations anonymously in order to obtain a comprehensive picture of the possible weaknesses of the educational system and the school unit. Today's bill also includes the modernisation of church education, the creation of three schoolchildren of candidate clergymen from whom a clergyman will have to graduate in order to be paid by the public. A very important decision by the Government and the Ministry of Education is that, for the first time this year after twelve years, eleven thousand permanent teachers will be appointed. These appointments are in addition to four and a half thousand permanent appointments in the special schools, in order to limit the use of substitutes for fixed needs and the overall upgrading of the school to be accompanied by the necessary permanent training staff. Once again, the Qualified Opposition proves to be below the circumstances. He refused to come to the debate on the drafting of the bill. The vote takes precedence over responsible and serious political speech. Yes, we are all entitled to have a different political position and a view, but this is not allowed to play with the future of youth and to overthrow life decisions retrospectively. The New Democracy has already implemented, in two years' time, the most of its pre-election commitments in the field of education, aimed at an upgraded, modern, free public education that helps our children and young people to experience a creative holistic school experience without sterile learning, developing critical thought and opinion, so as to lead to the future that they want and deserve. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u5	Now my colleague from SYRIZA, Mr Theodora Augeris, will speak and then the Minister will speak. The parliamentary representative of SYRIZA, Mr Skourletis, has requested the floor. Mr. Brutsi, do you want to talk later?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u6	Then, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u7	Good. Mrs. Aegiris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u8	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I imagine that if we were in another European country than what we consider to be models of excellent political systems and a high political culture, we would not be discussing this bill today today, because just because the Prime Minister would not feel conveniently in his place, for reasons of eloquence at least, after the revelations about his 'from the outset'. Unfortunately here is Tuesday and the Prime Minister is just having a good time. And unfortunately more and more citizens realise that the works and days of the Mitsotakis Government have tragic consequences for the lives of their own and their children, that they erode the social cohesion and the quality of our democracy. That is why it is ironic that this Prime Minister's government is coming to define the measures and standards of the educational project produced, to lay down evaluation conditions in schools. As in so many other cases now the government distorts concepts and reverses the meaning of the terms. He did the same with the pre-committees where the audited were prosecutors. He did the same with pandemic, replacing government responsibilities with so-called 'individual responsibility'. It does the same, and now, it reverses reality, it familiarizes the terms. The New Democracy insists that the term "assessment" be taken into account as if it were its property and property. Is it really New Democracy's own assessment? Did the New Democracy and the Government assess without degrees who took up positions in the State Mechanism in breach of the existing provisions? Has the New Democracy and the Government assessed its Ministers? Has the New Democracy and the Government assessed the town of retired people founded at the edges of the Great Maximos? Has the New Democracy and the Government assessed the management of the pandemic? What kind of stuff did you do? Nothing at all. And when you do, you do it in the old classic way of the Right. Good and good interests, covering up responsibilities and practicing unexistent successes. As a general rule, the New Democracy from each evaluation process removes accountability and adds social automation, communicating as an "assessment" neo-conservative authoritarianism and a male authority. You know, all of this may stimulate your new conservative audience, but we can't be fooled by the Prime Minister to be a progressive man. In the "subject" of his political values, progressiveity is undeclared and well hidden from social control. Who then assesses? Can he assess the unreported and unrealistic one? Let the government give a reply. The Prime Minister and the Minister of Education cannot speak of evaluation after the minimum import base fiasco. They cannot assess those who take responsibility and instead of recognizing their mistakes, respond with cynicism and anesthesia to their students, parents, throughout society. Ladies and gentlemen, the SYRIZA Members - a Progressive Alliance which was preceded yesterday by their speeches - have already restored to a point another legislative evacuation of the Government of New Democracy. Whatever the government majority opposes, the logic of its arguments demonstrates one thing: the upgrading of school and the strengthening of teachers are meaningless. The only point in the New Democracy assessment is to establish a hard bureaucratic, multi-teaching and expensive mechanism for school control, so that the model of neoliberal development that the establishment publishes can become state ideology and regularity in the consciousness of citizens, students, parents, teachers, from the first day of school. A alleged evaluation aimed at getting students out of schools and turning to a jungle, low-skilled and qualified workers market to give them a half-euro increase in the day, as Mr Mitsotakis did yesterday. Not many years have passed since Prime Minister Kyriakos Mitsotakis said that social equality is against human nature, as if social injustices were a natural phenomenon. Ladies and gentlemen, you are listening to us, the real excellence of the government has cut it off, and it has excluded excellent students from model schools from their preference schools. The government implements a policy that destroys society's educational potential, considering excellence comes only from the genes of its rich supporters. In other words, it applies an internal depreciation plan and education, degrading education, depriving education from resources, transferring resources from the public sector to the private sector, broadens the market share at the expense of public education. He did the same and does the same with health for the benefit of once-in-a-blocked, but today they do not hide their joy. And it draws from the educational process the practice of pupils in social justice, equality and democratic principles, in order to consolidate the inequalities for which the Prime Minister said it is a natural phenomenon and thus mean evaluation, continuous control of them below them. The government legislates to rule out a sorting order. It excludes workers from a decent working life, which only limits those who are attached to the chariot of power, excludes children from a high level of education that only lasts for those who have to pay. It also excludes micro-enterprises from financing, which is channelled exclusively to the interests that support it. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I shall close, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. In Greece where New Democracy is mindful, Mr. Mitsotakis does not have a place for the children of the people and of the middle classes, they do not have a place for teachers who inspire and lead, but teachers who punish and guide, do not have a place for the citizens who cooperate, but for the citizens who compete. History books will never write about this dystopia, because you will not manage to impose it, ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy. You look elsewhere from where the arrow of time shows, Mrs. Kerameau. Society is moving and you're already way behind. You don't even get to such a dame. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u9	The Minister for Education will now be given the floor, Mr Kerameos. It goes without saying that Mrs Kerameo will have a tolerance, because she will have to respond to what she has heard from yesterday until today.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u10	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, it is a common belief that the ability of our children to act their dreams starts from the educational system, from the contents of the knowledge it provides, from the skills it develops, from the way it works. It is precisely for this reason that the upgrading of our educational system, the improvement of the functioning of the school, the strengthening of the role of teachers is a priority for the Government of the New Democracy, but also a challenge, to which we have responded systematically for two years now. By a law passed last year on the upgrading of school we took the first step and introduced major innovations: skill workshops, activities in English in kindergarten, evaluation of the school and educational work, integrating respect for the other and safety in the school environment, strengthening standards and experimental schools, also through new thematics in school, such as educational robotics, respect for the other, ecological awareness, school guidance, all of this within the mandatory timetable, strengthening cognitive objects, such as information technology, foreign languages, physical education. We have taken special measures to improve the staffing of school units by strengthening our teachers who serve in over-optimistic areas with more molecules. We have broadened the methods of valuing the path of students, and we have streamlined the process of promoting and dismissing them. With this draft law we are proposing to Parliament, we are taking a new important step towards the overall improvement and upgrading of public school. We give greater levels of freedom and autonomy to our teachers, to our executives, to our school units, together with the necessary levels of accountability and transparency. We are setting up a system of evaluation of teachers and security-driven staff. We are creating a system of administration that is resilient, flexible, closer to the physical unit, closer to the school. At this point I would like to thank the Deputy Minister, Mr Zetta Makri, the Secretary-General, Mr Alexandros Kossis, Mr George Kalantzis, and our colleagues for their valuable contribution in drafting and drafting the bill. Welcoming thanks to the institutions, the teachers, the executives who have helped with their proposals to improve the provisions. In particular, I would like to thank the rapporteur for the New Democracy bill, Mr George Kotsos, for the excellent cooperation and the colleagues of the Coupling and Reconciliation movement, especially the Change Movement, the Mer25 and the Greek Solution who have come to a constructive dialogue before the draft was tabled and have submitted useful comments. I am very sorry that SYRIZA and the Communist Party of Greece chose not to enter into this dialogue before the drafting of the bill. I will present the changes made to the bill, while making certain assumptions at the same time. It's four assumptions. Admission first: Our country has the most centralised educational system in the European Union - here the relevant graph - and decentralisation is directly linked to better learning results. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned graph, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The vast majority of decisions relating to the day-to-day operation of the school are taken at Parliament, Ministry, Institute of Education Policy, while in other countries the figure that in our country is 80% - 80% of the decisions are made at central level - is 35%. That's a change. We decentralize the system, transfer responsibilities to our teachers, our managers, to the schools themselves. Why? Because international evidence shows that the more the decision-making centre moves to school, the better the learning results. The quality of education systems is directly dependent on the degree of decentralisation. It will appear here and then I will present it in the Minutes. The more centrally decided, the more decisions are taken, the worse learning results. The more decisions go to school, the better the learning results. Please, I'm tabling this for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] The aim is, therefore, to liberalise the creative initiative of teachers and staff who are close to the pupils and schools, who are best aware of the needs of the school. Indicative arrangements for strengthening the autonomy of school units are as follows: Free choice of books, multiple books. What does "multiple book" mean? It means two things: firstly, that the teacher will be able to choose the book from which he will teach his children and secondly, that all these books will be available in a digital library. Why does that matter? Because we will now have more sources and our children will be invited to combine sources, to leave one single book, from the one and only source, and to invite our children to combine sources and thus cultivate their critical thinking. Freedom in the form of four-monthly evaluation tests. Here, really, I challenge the MPs to tell me if they think they're more suited than our teachers, to judge whether the fewer tests in high school and high school should be fifteen minutes. That's what the law says, ladies and gentlemen. The law today says that the tests must be fifteen minutes. I ask each and every one of you and I put myself in. I personally don't think I know better than the teacher. The teacher knows much better than we do. So when we say, Mr Philly, that we decentralise, we remove responsibilities centrally and transfer them to the school itself, to those who know better than all the needs of the students. So there are no only tests. There are individual work, group work. There is the use of characteristics of the inverted class model. All this at the disposal of teachers to judge how best they will evaluate their students. We decentralise the procedures for the adoption of training programmes, training surveys. No, we don't think it's normal to sign a Secretary-General for any investigation, for every practical exercise that is to be done at a school. Let's finally give our teachers space to our schools. Let's show them the trust they deserve. It is planned to be possible to set up training groups. Here is an example of the dissemination of best practice by the current standards and experimental schools in all the public schools in the country. We provide for a strengthening of the role of director and teachers in positions of responsibility. Establish support bodies to the manager and the school, with mobilisation and consideration in the evaluation file. For example, who disagrees with having mentors, helping young teachers to join the educational community? Greater autonomy of the school for the use of school facilities for events, conferences, programs. Admission second: No system can be improved if its results have not been previously captured, its course if not evaluated. I think, ladies and gentlemen, that we will all agree that establishing an evaluation procedure for the work of teachers is not just an urgent need. It is now a demand for society. More, ladies and gentlemen, from three to four citizens, over 75% want teachers to be evaluated. Here's the stuff. I'm putting it down for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] A common practice applicable to 90% of European countries, with the exception of Greece, Turkey, Ireland, Malta and Iceland. Here's the map. Blue are countries which do not apply evaluations: Greece, Turkey. It is not possible, ladies and gentlemen, in 2021 to discuss whether or not the evaluation will improve our educational system. I'm putting it down for the Minutes, please. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] For decades, evaluation attempts have been afflicted with ideologies. Now, however, conditions have matured and political and social will is a given one. We are therefore moving forward in line with our election commitments to the evaluation of our teachers. "We review" means recording, studying, rewarding and improving if there is room for improvement. We are therefore introducing an evaluation of the work of teachers, an assessment of a purely improved nature, with an emphasis on training, as an essential measure for the establishment of a feedback mechanism and for ensuring the continuous improvement of the educational system, the quality of education. If the result of the evaluation is a positive one, then it is a modulated criterion for you to become a school manager, a training director, to reach the education hierarchy. If the result of this assessment is not positive, then there is additional training, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, of the horizontal training provided to all our teachers, such as training, for example, takes place and now that we are talking about. Since September, skill workshops have been introduced in all schools in the country. And right now there is a horizontal training for our teachers. We're also introducing the evaluation of executives. The aim here is to see how a staff member responds to the mission assigned to him, a school manager, a training manager, and if the result is positive, then of course it is a modulated criterion, but there, if the result is not positive, it is negative, and there it is foreseen a replacement, because we have recorded that this staff member does not respond to the mission assigned to him for a given term. The basic principle that governs the system is as follows: whoever evaluates it is assessed by multiple evaluators, with security margins, always aimed at improving them. Admission third: Education works better with support structures that are closer to the school, closest to the students, with particular emphasis both on teaching and psycho-emotional. We are therefore introducing changes first in education support structures. We provide training structures with a purely pedagogical character, quality supervisors. We are raising the consultants, bringing them closer to the school unit - from five hundred forty-five, at regional level to eight hundred - closer to the school. And because you have raised a lot of the issue of MAGPs, the MAGPs are at regional level. Counselors had to cover too many miles so that they could be next to the schools. So we want the advisors closer to school, closer to the students, closer to the teachers. That's why we're increasing them to numbers and bringing them closer to the school unit. We recommend a thousand new organic posts, five hundred 50 for psychologists, five hundred 50 for social workers, and we predict early education and support for primary school pupils, that is to say, the possibility for parents to go to the KEDS and take more personalised support measures. We are responsible for school guidance in the Directorates of Education and we are setting up an Advisory and Guidance Office per school group. We are introducing changes to the criteria and procedure of selecting managers. We are increasing the required service. We shall simplify the conditions for participation by a joint minimum teaching service for the selection of any staff member's post. We are establishing - and here I would like to insist - evaluation as a central criterion. Yes, in order to be selected as a training executive at very important training places, it is very important how you have been evaluated, which has been abolished by the Civic Opposition. Now it says that it is in favour of evaluation - I do not know how this is translated - but the Civic Opposition itself is that it abolished the evaluation criterion for the selection of executive posts. We're reintroducing the structured interview, case study. We streamline the selection mechanism for executives, both in terms of criteria and in terms of procedure, and provide for the non-participation of elected representatives in the selection boards for the first time. It is a horizontal measure for all selection procedures. The representatives of teachers serve a specific task at the service councils, on matters relating, for example, to the service situation of teachers and teachers they represent. This, however, is different from the choices made for high positions of responsibility in education, such as for education managers and school advisors. The selection boards for these higher liability positions shall participate in the ASCB and shall be selected on the basis of objective criteria. Concept fourth: Our church education needs modernization and reorganization. The last law on church education was passed in 2006 and the main objective was the establishment of the Highest Church Academy, of higher education structures. The basis for the introduction of the Highest Church Academy and the absorption of their graduates are particularly problematic. I will give you an indicative example: From the non- priestly departments the Church of Greece has hired a graduate in eleven years. In 11 years he's hired a graduate! This is the situation, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, that you have tolerated. He is a graduate in eleven years and we maintain structures of church education, which SYRIZA even says to strengthen. Nowadays clergymen may also be primary graduates, which has a direct influence on church staff and on relations with society. With this draft law, we are trying to organize fully and on a new basis secondary, postgraduate and higher church education, upgrading the clergy and church studies. So what are we suggesting? The establishment of a postgraduate structure of ecclesiastical education, school schools of candidate clergymen, with a two-year programme, a year of theoretical training and a year of practical training, with the sole objective of training priests and upgrading the clergy. Clergymen will henceforth only be able to be paid by the public if they have a student's degree in candidate clericals or a higher education institution and not if they have a primary or secondary education degree as currently in force. And the bill also provides for the combination of the highest church academies from four to two, in the broader rationalisation of the country's academic map, based on the candidates' demand and the best prospects for our young people. It is necessary to rationalise the structures of higher church education by merging them into existing structures or transfer them to relevant sections of the HEIs with the aim of quality higher church education. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law further upgrades our country's primary and secondary education as well as our country's church education. We devolve responsibilities from the House, from the Ministry, from the Institute of Education Policy and give them to where the heart of education is beating, at the school itself, in the natural unit of the school. We trust our educational staff, our executives, we motivate them, but also tools for improvement. We introduce an evaluation system to feedback, upgrade. We're giving the public school the place he deserves. And from pigeons we become drivers of developments, with our skills workshops all distinguished for their lead as good educational practice. Ladies and gentlemen, the school that opens in September will not be the same. It will have eleven thousand seven hundred young, permanent teachers in general education. They are the first assignments made after twelve years and following last year's four thousand five hundred appointments in Special Education. In total, in the first two years of the government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, sixteen thousand permanent appointments to education. Since September there will be a place in our kindergartens for every four-year-old student, English activities in all public kindergartens, new thematics in the context of the skill workshops in all kindergartens, primary schools, high school, kindergarten. Robotics, road safety, sexual education, ecological consciousness, volunteering, school guidance, all this within the timeline. Horizontal training of teachers in digital tools, new skills. One hundred and twenty-three new curricula in general education. Almost double standards and experimental schools since last year, the first six professional high school models in the history of the country. Digital skills transformation, reinforcement of equipment, infrastructure and services. Ladies and gentlemen, I planned only to refer to the regulations of the bill, only to the light day that dawns for our schools. However, I cannot leave Mr Tsipras's unprecedented statement on the candidates of the pan-Hellenics who have not been able to enter the Architecture Schools of the First Preference. But let's look at the data. Mr. Tsipras promised retrospective - I repeat, retrospective! - the introduction of overnumbers of candidates into higher education institutions. I can think of so many reasons why this statement is extremely problematic. I'm going to mention four tellers. Firstly, it annulls these candidates' efforts in the pan-Hellenic, who have achieved a higher score than those who have not been introduced into their first option. In short, SYRIZA tells them “It doesn’t matter. If some of you wrote better and went to your first choice, it doesn't matter, we ignore it." Secondly, it actually circumvents the inconsistency of the pan-Hellenic examinations and any sense of legal certainty, any confidence of the citizen in the legislator and the validity of the laws of our country, by providing for the retroactive application of the new, whatever system. Why? Because in his view, in the opinion of Mr Tsipras, the children were wrongly cut. I really can't think of how many laws, how many principles arouses such an announcement. I cannot, ladies and gentlemen, imagine a better exercise for first-year law students. Thirdly, it ignores the basis, the factor which the universities themselves have chosen. Considers, in other words, SYRIZA and his Chief to be better aware if a candidate can respond to the level of study of the Architecture of Metsovio Polytechnics, with a degree of thirteen or fourteen in the basic course of the project by the department’s own managers who set the rate of the base. And fourthly, it cancels the effort of the candidates themselves, who can choose architectural schools in other cities. So he tells them what? "Since you didn't go through your first choice, you didn't make it, you are failed. But it doesn't matter, let some years pass, don't go anywhere and wait if and when I'm re-elected to come and put you in Athens." Ladies and gentlemen, it is truly regrettable that the Civic Opposition of young people, in its attempt to frustrate any frustration of candidates who, in a peculiar, completely incomprehensible competitive process, have gathered a lower score than their candidates. And I ask: what lesson do you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, give these children? Not to accept that anyone can, even for a while, overcome them in a fair fight? They can't manage a disappointment? Require opportunities exclusively for them and not for everyone? Ladies and gentlemen, although it is clearer that you do not believe a word than you do, and that you have just come out of votes, even your own voters - and I would like to show this - by more than 55% - I am not talking about society in general, but about the voters of SYRIZA, society in general is much higher - they want the minimum import base. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And that's why? Because society wants to put an end to the phenomenon of introducing students with low scores that are introduced into the HEIs, but they are not graduated. We have, ladies and gentlemen, here the largest proportion of students in relation to the general population in the European Union - I put it in the Minutes, please - and unfortunately we are late at the graduation rate in the countries of the European Union. I'm filing the relevant data. [[At this point, the Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Because all of us, ladies and gentlemen, want students who become graduates, not eternal students who are trapped on a road without a way out. We want young people who choose streets with perspective. Because for the first time the universities themselves have a say on the criteria for the introduction of candidates, a consistent, reasonable request for years. The SYRIZA government wanted the door of admission to universities open for all, without conditions and criteria, while in reality the door to graduation, professional rehabilitation, perspective, was closed for several. On the other hand, the Government provides us with outlets, upgrading and highlighting alternative educational routes, the selection of public IEK, which provide professional training in more than a hundred and twenty modern skills of high demand and absorption in the labour market. Ladies and gentlemen, the educational system is the most critical guide, which largely determines the course of each generation and every country. The way it works, the range and the kind of knowledge it conveys, the philosophy of life that it cultivates defines the context of the potential and opportunities for progress and for the advancement of every man, every society, every people. I believe that everyone's aim during this debate is to give our children a better school, our teachers, a better education system, in Greek society a means of development, progress and advancement. While SYRIZA chooses the problem yesterday, the New Democracy Government leads education to an upgraded today and even better tomorrow. The Greek experience, international practice, our confidence in the value of our teachers and our concern for children require us, ladies and gentlemen, to leave behind outdated practices, ideological approaches and move forward, to create, through this bill, an educational system that operates as an effective lever of social mobility for every child, which provides equal opportunities for elevation in the era of the global knowledge society, which forms creative, extroverted, active citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u11	As I said before, the floor will now be taken by the parliamentary representative of SYRIZA Mr Panagiotis Skourletis, then Mr Brutsis as Parliamentary Representative. If the speeches made by the Heads of State or Government do not come up, almost everyone will talk in an hour, Mr Villards has asked for the floor as a parliamentary representative. You have the floor, Mr. Skourlet.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u12	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, on Thursday at noon, if I'm not mistaken, there is a debate here in the House on “fake news” and misinformation. I propose that we begin by showing extracts from your speeches from the committees and from your previous position. There has never been, instead of a substantial open dialogue argument, the adoption of a misinformation to support something that has already created explosive situations. I am referring to this year's minimum import base. And even though you were against the majority of the educational institutions, even though you ignored the effects of the newly known pandemic, which continue in their own children and families, you continue unthinkable and managed to have the most violent reduction in children who passed on to the universities from the Greek state's recommendation. Good for you. And higher. This really wanted a great deal of effort, not to announce a reduction in this number, but to make arrangements of this kind which in practice would put thousands of children outside universities, except for their preference and also for universities in general, canceling efforts under particular circumstances this year. You referred to the polls, Minister. You know, it is not good to do politics on the basis of only polls, especially when it is a member of the government, the Minister, the Prime Minister, because it shows an incredible tacticalism. It requires more planning, perception, orientation and not a market approach to the polling position. You can't just do with communication politics. But if you want to read the polls, read them all. Because, especially for you and your things in education, they do not hold back a good picture. I am presenting three polls here, where you personally rank in the last positions between the preferences of the ministers, as the world receives them, with the highest rates of negative attitudes, and for the work of the government as a whole on educational issues. You, with the labour sector, compete with what is the weakest part of the applicable government policy, the achilles heel. Here we are, of course, and we'll see about that. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Skourletis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Madam Minister, really, what do you hold on to the new children? Not only those who have given tests, not just those who are preparing, but those who are already fighting, who have finished a school and have a paper in their hands or have not and are struggling to find a job, to see their future. Yesterday, your colleague, Mr Hatzidakis, couldn't have made you more provocative as he announced an increase in the minimum wage. Symbolic growth, the Prime Minister said so provocatively. Of course, people do not work symbolically, but work to live, they and their families, in order to be biopobilized. Therefore, it is not symbolic that the pay of work and ranks Greece, together with Estonia, in those countries that have smuggled wages and if SYRIZA had not made the last increase in the minimum wage to EUR 650, to think about how many other allowances received, even that of the suspension of labour in the previous year of the pandemic, would have been well-established. And instead, on the basis of your own statements, which you keep talking about optimistic prospects for the economy, for growth, for improvement, instead of seeing how the world of work can gain from this phenomenon, which you claim to be development that comes, what are you doing? You have taken measures to increase inequalities and reduce the share of work in participation in the product of growth. And you don't just do it with the symbolic increase in the minimum wage. You do it with the law that recently passed a few days ago for unpaid overtime. You do so through the undermining of collective agreements, which is the real weapon of workers. So, promise the young people, these and all the other things that we see are included in today's bill, but also in the previous legislation that you have brought as a minister. And that is not enough, so that we have no doubt, you tell the young people that we will gamble your insurance contributions, by privatising supplementary pensions. If this is not a profound bowdown towards the laws of the market, against the insufferable isotopic adoption of the profit law at all levels that organise social and economic life, what else is it? But he seems to be the boulder that guides your own policy. At the same time, your allergy, your elitism, your bias seems. you referred a moment ago to the example of Architecture. Do not mention this example of Architecture, because it is at your expense. Last night, just before the discussion was over, our colleague Mr. Thrafniotis from Lassithi submitted here an advertising of a private college where he wants to receive students for the Architecture, where he said, plus others, that it is not necessary for you to register, even though we will take it into account, the qualification of knowledge on the free design and the architectural design. So there, where you have equated professional rights to the graduates of private colleges - because the only social alliance you have done is with the entrepreneurs in education, instead you have all the rest of you, isolated, you are striving - there is no criterion of the white glue or the special import base. There is the right of the financially powerful. Anyone who pays, regardless of where he will find it, will be able to introduce and enjoy the same professional rights as the child who has been able to obtain in these difficult conditions, has been modest, excellent or better, and you, with the scary mechanism that has been introduced, are entitled to barriers. This is the reality that has led today to forty thousand signatures. It was Friday against you online, a repetitive youth, online movement. Watch out, 'cause you don't get along with education. It's also a timeless achilles heel, the relationship of your resignation to education. You're bored, then, fist to the knife. So here we will be and see what is going to happen. Ladies and gentlemen, a number of provisions which, while well-meaning to serve the question of the education process, are, in fact, underestimating the autonomous role of the school. You cannot introduce centralised administration systems through superpowers to directors who are part of a party anymore, a voluntary party mechanism at the expense of the club of teachers at each school, at the expense of the educational community of each school, where, obviously, within the framework of a single curriculum, it must be able to adapt in accordance with the circumstances and collectively assess it. The evaluation cannot, therefore, be punishable, as you have repeatedly done so in the past, with a number of provisions. Ladies and gentlemen, in order to serve education one must believe in the value of education, it must be understood that education has a liberatory power, because it gives rise to people with open horizons, those who can question and claim a better society, those who in a democracy can criticise the governors. So this liberating power of knowledge must be supported. And we must support it globally for everyone and everyone, regardless of social origin, regardless of social income. You don't do that. And we see that there is again a without a prior social bias. We have tabled five amendments, which deal with crucial issues. And it is an opportunity for them to adopt a comprehensive starting point for a new approach to school, first of all, this abolition by suspending this year's application of the minimum import base and discussing all together. There are proposals. There are studies. There are European guidelines that tell you that 45% is a target for younger ages, so that they are graduates of higher education. You ignore this and you're running thirty years ago. Get away from your bachelor past. Things have changed. You cannot in the economy and education and health either move on the basis of the norms of neoliberalism for thirty years, which have widened inequalities. The world's moving on. Don't be the regression line. Look at the modern needs. Take conclusions from this multi-faceted crisis that is evolving in front of us, the climate, the crisis of representation, the health crisis. Nevertheless, you continue. The second amendment we have tabled concerns the issues of the bank. Also, an amendment has been tabled on the issues of restoring the eight eighty-eight thousand seven hundred forty-six graduates of vocational apprenticeships where their degrees with those of the PES have to be equal, the possibility of posting teachers with a disability rate of 67% or more, and the abolition of the distribution of 20% from the grant of the ordinary budget. There is nothing that is constitutionally guaranteed to use it as a weapon of punishment and to deprive the education of what the Constitution itself requires of doing, namely aid. Finally, I would like to say, Minister, that you know, at times, some examples in life have a greater force of education and education, send out a signal that seals whole generations, teach a different sense of solidarity and humanity. And I am referring to the example of rescuer Iasona Apostolopoulou, who was originally invited by the Presidency of the Republic, on the occasion of the celebration of the restoration of democracy, to be rewarded by circles from your party, they have intervened in canceling it. I would therefore like you as Minister of Education, precisely because you have a critical portfolio relating to the education of young people to take a stand on it. Is that right? Isn't this man with the touching pictures of the little immigrants who save them from the drowning that embraces them all affection is not the most powerful message of disciplining solidarity and humanity? So how do you put it aside? This is really a gray moment for the President of the Republic itself. We've had other demands and we're the ones that we know we voted to be elected. So I would like your comment and on this matter. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, too. The New Democracy Parliamentary Representative, Mr Ioannis Vroutzis, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u14	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by making a point, which is time-consuming in this Chamber from different starting points of view of parties, governments. A common denominator, many years now, is that when we are discussing a draft law on education, in fact, it marks a debate on the future. I think no one can question it. Because all the other bills, health, economy, labour, social security, have a reference on the ground and an impact on society. The Ministry of Education bill, however, which has the starting point at the moment, touches the future, defines and shapes the future. Here, a dominant question arises. I think that this dominant question has been debated in committees over time in Parliament's Chamber: are we happy with education as has been shaped over all these years? That is what I think is the major issue to start this debate, as is being held today. Some people say that we are happy, that is, we must leave things as they are, statically, here, as they have been formed in the educational community, both primary and secondary and tertiary, and let them evolve as they are today. Does SYRIZA have this position, that everything is well burned and they have to stay here? The answer, ladies and gentlemen, is 'no'. The power of inertia that has been pulling our country back for decades has to be defeated. And the New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, Minister Niki Kerameos and her staff are in the opposite direction. We're conflicting, Mr. Skourlet. We are bored in the knife because, above all, what we have as a compass of direction in our policies and in the formulation of our policy is to open roads, collide with pathogens of decades, with inertial forces and move Greece forward. And the area of education is primarily the place to do conflicts, which have to do with ideological references, with values, with protec tions on how to see things and how to evolve. The question of whether we need to be inactive comes the answer: do we not see what is going on globally? Don't we see that everything changes at speed in the world? Do we not see that foreign languages should now be a concern of the educational community and be introduced by the kindergarten, as the bill does now, because in a changing world, foreign languages must be the property of children in a global common environment that no longer has borders and communicates with all the foreign languages? Secondly, the digital environment, which comes at a huge speed and changes everything worldwide, must not be introduced, should it not be strengthened? I am going into a subject which I think is an estate of all: critical capacity. Do we have to stand by the existing educational system, which has the parrot as the dominant element? Should we not make the incision to change these things and give children the possibility of critical capacity? And how's that gonna happen? Mr Philie, with absolute appreciation on your face - children, families - we all have to change, this parrot, which has so far been the dominant element of our training function to go to another environment. The Nike Kerameau bill is doing this. It was a long time ago that this debate took place on another level. Do you remember the debate on self-government that we are now talking about in favour of the principle of subsidiarity, in other words, whether the public authority is to be, because whoever is close to the citizen has the best results and knows better? The principle of subsidiarity at the level of public administration has succeeded. We've all voted for it. Today something similar is being attempted in education. What's the philosophy? The principle of subsidiarity in education reform, in education, is one of the main pillars of the bill. So, the aim is to give the teachers the strength, to trust the teachers, to decentralise the system. Does the Ministry of Education lose responsibility and where does it give them? Teachers. What does that look like? That she has confidence in teachers, contrary to what you say in her argument. He has absolute confidence in the educational community, that is, in living cells, in those who have undertaken the work of bringing culture and knowledge to our children. That's what Kerameo wins. It conveys this responsibility and responsibility to teachers, trusting those who are better aware of the learning specificities of children, schools, local society, how to develop the school better, competitively and in conjunction with the Ministry. That is to say, we do the self-evident thing. I personally thought that in the debate that is taking place today, the crucial question would not be on behalf of SYRIZA 'yes' to changes or 'no' to changes. I thought we'd say yes to changes. The questions and criticisms that SYRIZA should have made should have been what changes we want. Do we want less or more evaluation? We must make an assessment, we must all agree on that. If an evaluation is made, I'd like SYRIZA to be placed there. 'Yes' to evaluation, but we have another perspective. No, SYRIZA remains in the logic of "no evaluation". We have another issue: Do we want to be inactive, such as school today, primary, secondary, tertiary education? I thought we'd all go together to reason yes, change and make what changes we're going to make to a decentralised school that we're going to trust in the teacher who will cultivate consciousness to the teacher through the trust we give him to cultivate critical thought to the children. These are the big questions that are being raised today in the debate. So we have a bill brought by the government and the Ministry of Education. I, Mrs Kerameou, personally as a member of the New Democracy, former Minister and current parliamentary representative, would like to congratulate you. It sounded before the idea that you weren't a good minister. You should be aware that on the side of the world and the space and society that we are discussing you are the most successful and most effective Minister, because you have really conflicted with things that have been inert for many decades and you come today to punch the knife, as you must, on a major issue concerning the future of our country, because this bill will have implications for the future. The fermentation and what it will create in education society will have effects and consequences for the future. In such changes and reforms, which want to be matured, we will see the results in the future in favour of Greece and improve the educational community, the evaluation of teachers, the possibility of critical thinking for children. Mr. Skourletis spoke of unemployment. Mr Skourletis, it is true that unemployment is really a social problem and in Greece 16% does not honor anyone. It is a problem, however, that is not solved by pressing the button. We've discussed this several times. Since we are now discussing vocational education and training in Greece, we have 16% unemployment. At the same time - you know, don't tell me that you don't know - in the labour market there's a lot of demand for skilled workers and they don't exist. There's a skills gap. Do we have to close our eyes to this? Should we be indifferent and say that there is a demand on the labour market for skilled personnel and while we have unemployed, do we not find staff, workers to touch upstairs? Do we have to close our eyes? Vocational training and training responds to this. You supported her, too. Why now are you across the street? The other issue was raised by the Minister. We're the first country in student percentage and the last in graduates' percentage. Do we have to close our eyes and indifferent to this particular event? I, ladies and gentlemen, believed in such a bill, and I was convinced that the side of counter-population would be in the same line, but with different proposals, namely 'yes' to the evaluation of teachers, 'yes' to the change of the model of the educational community, but with a different proposal, not with your proposal, which is in favour of inertia and stagnation. These don't help the country, they don't help the country, and in the end they don't help you either. You tell me how I know it and why I say it. No one needs to be a veteran. I am quite simply reading the globe that has taken place, which is overwhelming in favour of education reform. Seven out of ten positively consider the assessment of the reform of the Kerameo Nikos, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Three out of four agree to pass with a card to the U.S.S.S.S. According to the survey, 75.3% agrees with the establishment of an evaluation of teachers by three people, the director of each school and independent school advisors, while only 18.8% expresses disagreement. You want to be at 18.8%? That's your right. But here, the public ranks you for this educational reform. Let's go look at them more thoroughly. Establish a minimum import base for universities, what you are now opening the debate and you have lifted the opposition tone. 70.9% agrees. Only 23.5% disagrees. Limit of schooling at universities. 71.2% is in favour. 25.2% is across the street. Starting school in kindergarten from the age of four. 62.3% is in favor. Controlled entrance card to universities, 75.6%. Municipal and high school skills workshops for robotic and road safety, 92.4%. As for road safety, Minister, we must become aware and raise the issue of road safety again. The accidents currently taking place in our country are too much. They leave the dead young children behind and they leave severely injured. The recent accident in Andros was shocking when two cars crashed frontal and seven children were seriously injured. We must cultivate road consciousness at school. That's where it has to start. Increasing the number of standards and experimental schools, 77.3%. Establishing an evaluation of teachers, 75.3%. Introduction of English, 58.3%. What 72.9% of the average is in favour of educational reform introduced by the government, the paradox: 53.4% of the SYRIZA voters are in favour of educational reform. 34.6% of the voters of the Communist Party of Greece are in favour of educational reform. 76.6% of the KINAL voters are in favour of educational reform. And the question that is being raised is: When your own policy-reported people are in favour of educational reform, is it not politically worrying for you to change your position and attitude toward the bill? Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the government, especially in the field of education, has caused all voters, but also society to be overwhelming with it and us who belong to the New Democracy, Mrs Kerameus, proud. And you and Mrs. Makri and all the ministers and the general secretaries are doing an amazing job, because it is precisely a bill, which touches on what is a common goal and a desire for all, to make a Greece of the future with the new generation that we have a responsibility to inherit our homeland much better and that is only through the reforms in education can be done. Well, congratulations. Move out loud and we're with you. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u15	Please, listen now to how we're going to move on. Two colleagues will speak, Mr Ilhan Ahmet, so that we do not go to parliamentarians and Mr Kelles. Then Mr. Villardos will speak as a Parliamentary spokesman from the Greek Solution. And from there on, we will move on depending on when the political leaders begin to appear. The information is that almost everyone will talk from an hour after a while and as long as it goes. So I can't tell you about the rest of my colleagues. I would ask everyone to keep time so that all Members can speak. Mr. Ilhan Ahmet from the Change Movement has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u16	Mr President, Minister, today I intended to talk about the education bill and to develop the positions of the Change Movement and say where we disagree and where we agree on this whole bill. But, Minister, we were surprised last night when you tabled an amendment, and I do not know whether you have really read all the articles and are about minority education, and I will now devote my word or my speech to this amendment. Minister, you have tabled an amendment and with this amendment you are exempting some of the provisions of this bill in Part IV "Greater freedom in the organization of teaching", which I admit are nice articles and positive articles. You exclude minority education from all these articles for an unjustified and unconstitutional way. In order to understand what this amendment says and what the exception is, I will say two or three things, first of all what the amendment says goes down and then see what the problem is. First of all, the amendment makes a distinction by violating the isology and the equivalence of Article 2 of the Greek Constitution 'equality before the law' and paragraph 5 of the Constitution paragraph 2 by saying - for example - Article 87 of this Law: 'Cooperations with third parties'. In other words, it gives school units the right - positive article - to cooperate with third parties on cultural, sporting, social, educational interests. This article, in 87, will not apply to minority schools, Article 2 of the amendment. Let's move on. Article 88 states: 'The conduct of research and practical training in the school unit'. In other words, managers, staff, students, public, private and research institutions can do research and practical work. No, that cannot be applied - it says - in minority schools. Why is this discrimination? Another article, Article 99 again of the bill: ‘School financing and donation management’. And when we say donation funding, we mean by Greek citizens, donations made by Greece. We are not talking about donations from abroad, although there would be no problem. But this article says. No - it says - neither donations can be made in minority schools nor donations can be managed by a school unit of minority schools. In Article 98, what does it say? It is a very positive article: ‘Enhancement of school buildings and other facilities’. In short, whatever schools are closed, they are suspended, closed in villages can the municipal council, the mayor use them to the social benefit of the citizens. Take advantage of it. It's positive. It's public property. Nor - it says - can be exploited, applied to minority. Why? So that every mayor can't do anything he wants by excluding and thus violating any concept of law. Others, of course, are limited in choice of some books, while school books 84 and 85 are selected by the institution, by Greece. Why, in other words, does the Director and the Deputy Director have the right to choose the book? The book whether to use Mrs Frankoudakis' book or a public book will be decided by the teachers and by approved books of the Greek public. Why is this discrimination? And all this, Minister, is it where they lead? With this minority amendment, which we ask you to withdraw immediately today - directly Article 2 - introduces the de facto distinction of minority school as a second opportunity school. That's the first. Secondly, you amputate minority school by leaving it decentralised by any social activity and extroversion. Thirdly, you introduce discrimination against Greek citizens who choose minority education, officially showing two-speed students in an anti-constitutional way. Why not apply these general provisions to minority school too? Fourthly, you deny the rights of teachers in the public school and for teachers in the minority school. Fifthly, classify minority education as a classified issue for researchers, scientists, all kinds of stakeholders, after denying any contact of minority school with the outside world. What are you afraid of, really? Sixth, you are cutting off the umbilical cord that connects minority schools to local communities and self-determination, while where there is a minority school in Thrace it is the most important meeting point and social dialogue of local communities. Seven, you lead minority education to impairment, paralysis and total depreciation. You show the way for its definitive elimination over time. Madam Minister, we have repeatedly come with positive proposals here in order to facilitate you with other topical questions on other issues. Unfortunately, we couldn't find any responses. But today's amendment, unfortunately, goes beyond any concept of good faith that exists for minority education. At the same time, we want to make the following proposals to you today on the occasion of this amendment to minority education, if the government in the last four years has been able to offer something positive, as the previous PASOK governments have offered, but even SYRIZA. Because from you - and I am sincerely sorry about this - so far, there is no positive approach to the issues of minority education. Upgrade of existing and new building infrastructures in minority settlements will be made whether they are minority schools or are public schools. We don't exclude that. When will it be? Create new decentralised sections when will they be in areas? Thirdly, will the full-day programmes for all minority schools be implemented? Your headlines say it. You know it. We have made numerous suggestions, even questions from the institutions. The priority training area from seven to eight in the morning will be implemented? Not applicable. The recruitment of Muslim kindergartens, which was a positive measure from the previous SYRIZA government, will be implemented and how will it be implemented? Is it going to be enriched? Is it going to get any better? Because he's totally up on the stools.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u17	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u18	I shall conclude, Mr President. And all these problems, Minister, must be solved and, unfortunately, we are seeing a complete indifference and with this amendment, unfortunately, the confidence of the minority in the institutions will be shaken. Does this government intend to respect the right to choose our Muslim fellow citizen to go to send his child to the minority school? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u19	Good. Until the Step is cleared, I too have listened with great interest to what Mr Ilhan said, and I would like to believe that with the same heat he supports the rights that both the minority schools of Istanbul, the Painting and the Zappeion - so? - which they don't have.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u20	Clearly.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u21	Kelles Christos, Member of the New Democracy Parliamentary Party, has the floor and then the Greek Parliamentary Representative. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u22	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with this draft law the Mitsotakis Government continues to implement its commitments, creating an educational system that trusts and supports the Greek teacher, releasing the creativity of our children and providing them with more facilities for the future. The evaluation of training staff and teachers, in which opposition is opposed, is, in principle, a request from the educational world itself. These are procedures which are widespread in Europe and allow teachers to receive methodical training. Evaluation is not punishable, no one is fired, no one loses their wages. Really, ladies and gentlemen, why do you consider the continuing training of teachers to be a negative thing? Do you disagree that we should be improving on a lasting basis to meet the modern demands of society and the economy? The bill does not only provide an evaluation of teachers, but it is an up-to-date and vibrant process that requires an evaluation of the system itself by the IPPP and the IPP, so that our educational system is constantly better. Our aim is for education to give all children equal opportunities, particularly those of the incomely weaker families. We have, however, heard from the rapporteur for Officerial Reconciliation not much or much that we do not want - it says - that the children of the people's families should go to university and move forward. Can you believe that, Mr. Philly? We established skills workshops in order for students to gain more knowledge of their future. We introduced English as a language of learning from kindergarten. Isn't that a log? English and Informatics are not necessary, why are these students coming out after 2030? We also guarantee them free of charge within the school environment. Therefore, do not say too much just for opposition! It is our common place to have administrative decentralisation of school units. To this end, the bill strengthens the autonomy of schools, while supporting the work of teachers. The institutions of the intra-school coordinators, which will assist managers in their work and teachers and mentors in supporting newly appointed teachers, are defined. At the same time, academic research is being carried out in school units, both for staff and for students in the educational sector. In addition, the innovation of the selection of school manuals is introduced, while the possibility of setting up educational groups after the end of the calendar and the interconnection of the school unit with third parties is provided. These are synergies on the basis of programmes that will have cultural, sporting and social interest for students. So we've been strengthening the citizen's sensory and feeling of belonging to the community since the early age. Therefore, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, we are establishing a more massive and collective system for the administration of school units which interconnects the school and the children more fully with the local communities and modifies the conditions for a more human and mutual future among their members. Because you too want decentralisation, as you say the active presence of schools in social events, you need to vote on these specific provisions responsibly. Citizens welcome the reform of the government and, in particular, education and this also appears from the recent survey, which showed that 70% of respondents are in favour of evaluation. Depending on the corresponding high rates, the respondents are in favour of the controlled entry into universities and the minimum import base. It is no accident, moreover, that two years after the 2019 elections and with everything that happened in this two-year period there is a long distance, the government enjoys the confidence of the world and this is reflected in all the social polls. But what's most impressive? That the difference from SYRIZA is increasing. This, ladies and gentlemen, is not only because we implement our election promises, but we are doing more. A characteristic example is the appointments to education. Last year we implemented four and a half thousand assignments in Special Education. This year we were committed to five thousand two hundred fifty appointments to general education, and we proceed to eleven thousand seventeen hundred appointments, in other words more than double what we had planned and even after twelve years. On 6 July we announced to them, 23 July the relevant decision, 26 July, was taken yesterday, the submission of applications. And this legislation provides for a thousand hundred places of psychologists and social workers who will support their educational work, students and families. Education, like health, is a pillar of the social state, which our Government defends, taking all possible steps to further its development. We trust the Greek teacher in practice and do not pluralize by seeking trade union benefits. We believe deeply in the future of public education and seek to upgrade it, guaranteeing not only the necessary institutional guarantees, but also the spiritual potential that the educational work will direct in line with the needs of our time and tomorrow's requirements. As an extension, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, citizens can compare to the truth of the numbers. Those of you who have heard both today and the previous days in the drafting of the bill show that once again you are attempting to create impressions which, however, do not respond to reality. Finally, ladies and gentlemen, we agree with the provisions on the upgrading of church education. But I would suggest here, Minister, that the High Church Academy of Thessaloniki be maintained for national and religious reasons. Of course, we are voting in favour of the bill and we support the multi-level reform effort of the Ministry of Education, which is closely linked to the government's national strategy to ensure the strong and sustainable development of our country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u23	Mr. Vassiliardos, Parliamentary Representative of the Greek Solution, has the floor now. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u24	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we will start from the fact that Greece's most fundamental problem is the lack of education in the broadest sense of the word, culture, that is, ethos, respect for the other, kindness, solidarity, honesty and so on. The lack of education has, unfortunately, deteriorated in the time of the memorials, which of course continue, although under another name. They are called "Reinforced supervision", while they concern only the ordinary animal, Greece, knowing that they will last until 75% of our loans are paid out by Europe, at least until 2060. But when the government continues to borrow and waste the loan, uncontrollably, as if it were not tomorrow, the memorials will continue, of course, after 2060, so Greek education will deteriorate even further. Without education, however, not even with regard to the behaviour of some of us in this House, how will our educational system improve? When and where on the planet has it improved, without any standards for young people in society, for businesses and for politics? In addition, what does it make sense to discuss the educational system in a country that has expelled six hundred and fifty thousand of its children abroad because it could not live them and does not even see to it to create jobs for those studying? Is it not hypocritical, when the future prescribed for our young people, whether they have studied or not, is it to work for 500 euros at a low level of work, competing with the unfortunate, cheap immigrants and even worse, until most of these jobs are automated, as has already begun to happen abroad? Is it not courageous for the troika of our interior to refer to improving our educational system when it comes to the only governments that will inherit our children in a much worse situation than the one we have inherited, a Greece that is bankrupt, financially conquered, supposed, in plundering, completely unarmed, humiliated, humiliated and exposed to dozens of dangers? In relation to today's bill to note that it is the sixth in turn that the Ministry of Education submits, one every four months, that is, in the catastrophic two years that New Democracy governs Greece. This in itself is not a failure, how much more than a year before a similar bill was passed entitled 'School Upgrade', a school, which, among other things, because of the incredible mismanagement of the pandemic, did not teach our children, even the elementary ones? Is it not reasonable to wonder why the proposal that we have in our programme, among other things, is not adopted, since our aim is to be constructive, that is, to set up a intergroup committee to draw up a 12-year training programme which will apply without delay any political or party formation will have the power? Is it not absurd for every government and every minister to demolish all the education programmes of the previous government, so students and students are constantly facing new unknown conditions? We are, however, proposing the self-evident, serving the common logic that has been replaced by the logic of the party rule in Greece, that is to say, the above committee with the main aim of adopting a body of changes and reforms aimed at reconstituting and upgrading education. Of course, in our programme there are dozens of other proposals relating to vocational education, the absolutely necessary linkage between the educational system and the labour market and, above all, the abolition of the gypsy of care centres that deprive Greek parents of indirect taxation, which does not exist in other countries and, besides, undermine education in schools, since a large number of teachers are not intentionally doing their job properly, so that students can be forced to pay the private lessons provided to them by their parents, of course. Because, in fact, the Civic Opposition that protests against the non-importation into our universities of twenty thousand young people in the autumn does not propose a system such as the Germans do. - who's going to dismantle the math and the introductory exams? Why not lose all those who win at the expense of both our children and their parents? Aren't these the poorest income layers, the most burdened? The bill is another mandate of the Troika, as stated in the tenth evaluation and on page 59, which delayed the vote after it was planned until May 2021. Why, really, the Minister does not say so, but is she pretending to be her own initiative? However, since the tenth evaluation, from page 10, it seems very clear that the troika has been annoyed, by the fact that the simplification of the licensing of private colleges, IEKs, has not been passed by the House, by simply making it known. Why wasn't it voted on? As the Ministry of Development withdrew it on account of the fact that there were seven hundred thirty-two negative comments in the consultation. In any case, the troika says that private education arrangements will be re-established by September, noting the unacceptable deposit of the draft law on insurance just before the closure of the House, obviously, with the undersecret goal of voting immediately after the start of the new period. Shame on you! There is no other word that describes what is being started, as well as the methods being followed. Furthermore, especially as regards the first part of the bill one wonders whether it contributes to the upgrading of the school, let alone when its first articles are spent on definitions, changes in titles and the adoption of new ones. For example, the ERCY and former CEDEFOP are renamed to KEDSY and new titles are adopted, such as the "Regional Quality Supervisor" and so on. However, this is a stable practice of the government in many other bills, obviously to blur water, as it is used to. It goes without saying that these changes serve no real reason and rather create problems and increase bureaucracy. Besides, it is funny that the Minister of Education should refer to quality education when on his own state, Greece is walking from bad to worse, with most of the most than half of the students in competition this year failing to provide the basis in mathematics and with almost all the others in the report. It was not, of course, a "poor-to-the-art" reminder of the performance of students in the recent PISA competition, from which Greece has fallen short of the "OECD countries" with 6.2% compared with 15.7% of the average in understanding text and in Mathematics, that is, to the objects of the future and to what our students have mainly failed this year, to critical thought and to the positive sciences. But are our children really to blame for all these failures, like our young people to disperse the pandemic during the government? Of course not since failure is clearly due to our educational system in the way the Post-Multipulation Governments and Memorandums have become, as well as to teachers and other participants. Of course, though, why should the government be interested in promoting critical thinking, how much more so, when it has come to removing the right to the crisis, even from the experts themselves, such as health officials, who are ejected into compulsory vaccination with an experimental vaccine, the evaluation of which continues and which, as it seems, does not stop the transmission of certain mutations? It may not, however, be so innocent of the choice of compulsoryity in general, since, in this way, it is intended to teach people to accept undeniably any government line, to bend their heads, not only in terms of vaccines, but also in terms of the memoranda, the auctions of their homes, the sale of public property, the planned tradition of national sovereignty in the Turks and so on. The second responsible for the failure of our educational system, noting that the memorials have already burned two generations of Greeks condemning them to unemployment, as well as crushing all their dreams and future prospects, are low costs. But there is no time to analyse it here. The third cause of failure is the ever-increasing economic prospects of our country. Suffice it to see that the government made EUR 41 billion available for the economy - with lending, of course - but only 183 million for the primary sector, for which the Prime Minister allegedly was his first priority, to understand her critical thinking. On the other hand, in addition to dedicating a large part of the draft law to whom it supervises who, in other words, control over the proclaimed autonomy and freedom, a demonic organogram is created with additional intakes, in the admirable tactics of the state, which is becoming ever more massive and authoritarian, such as every neoliberal construction. Finally, another issue that is presented as part of the bill, which is confronted, is the question of evaluation. Of course, when evaluations are carried out, one would expect that a percentage will not satisfy them. But where are the sanctions for these kinds of cases? Nowhere. So we reasonably assume that ratings will be used simply as a cover for party facilities. In addition, what assessment is made of the private IEKs that have been equated with higher education institutions? Is the Government interested in quality in private educational establishments, or is it simply the business activity that will increase GDP and State income? In any case, what is needed is to give young people a vision, to educate and work in their homeland, contributing to their economic and technological development. If not, they will work in other areas, where they will also produce wealth, what our country needs, producing wealth, knowing that the subsidised jobs have an end date and do not lead anywhere either to Greece or to Greece.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u25	Close, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u26	I'm closing, Mr. President. A plan and vision is needed for our country to do so in all areas, since there are solutions, with its enormous potential. Design and vision to return the six hundred thousand Greeks who were exiled by the governments of the memorandum, as we have developed in our programme, please all Greeks, especially young people, to devote a little of their time to read it. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u27	I would like to apologise to Mr Scandalidis for having asked to speak as a parliamentary representative and I had said yes to him, but they are two chairmen of parliamentary groups who have asked for the floor and unfortunately need to be preceded. Because both had requested the same time, we will go with what we always do, namely according to the parliamentary power of their parties. So Mr Koutsoubas and Mr Velopoulos will speak first. Here, Mr President, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u28	Ladies and gentlemen of the government, let us inform you that both the Fifteenth and the New Year's Day and the Easter Sunday to bring bills to the House that strike life, education, the future of the Greek people's children, the JRC will be the voice that will be here and in a place of battle. He will inform, organise, take the lead in the struggles, so that your inadmissible bills are not implemented in life. Cemetery silence will not exist, as was not the case in Easter 2019 with the so-called Gavroglou law for high school maintained by the Government of New Democracy. [[At this point, the Vice-President of Parliament, Mrs SAKORAFA, takes over the President-in-Office's office.]] What caught you in the midst of summer and of a new outbreak of pandemic and brought this reactionary bill, will it really bring educational middle ages? If, of course, it is implemented, which will not apply, because the educational world will fight it, and we are committed to doing everything about it. What poor thing is that caught you? Instead of dealing with how schools will open up in September with security, instead of making sure that all gaps are covered, instead of dealing with how the children's educational gaps are covered after two years of half-closed schools, you get premiered on how to degrade and market education, how to put new class barriers. Really, today what is lacking in schools is for parents and teachers to look for extra resources to work to meet their needs? Because that's what you bring. What is missing is that the school should be rented to all kinds of unrelated entrepreneurs, instead of relying on the state, the municipalities, to become real hives of creation, education, sport, healthy socialization? You're the one who opens the way to making a ticket to activities in schools. Shame on you! What is lacking in schools is literally entering every walnut so that it can carry out programmes, organise activities, do its propaganda to children on the basis of its own interests and pursuits? Is it not enough that with the anti-Fraud Ecstasy of Hatzidakis you solved your hands bleeding children's parents with ten-hour unpaid work, now you want to simulate them as conspiracy conspiracy modulators in the educational process? Do you think that the Greek people, the youth, will allow the American Embassy to do its propaganda in schools, or re-writing the bloody history of our country from the German foreign ministry and at the same time rejecting the presence of resistance organizations in schools to discuss with the children? The "grills" of imperialism leave them in schools. The grandparents and grandparents who sacrificed their lives for man to be free from home, nor to see painters. This is your famous open school! You and the other students who struggle and have fair demands because - he says - they're also taking possessions. But the real occupation of the public school by every tumultuous individual, by every business sponsor, by the controversial NGOs, you promote it well with the bill you bring. Really, what is missing from the educational process is a teacher who will continuously fill out boxes and dry evaluation forms? Of course, for you it makes sense to see the education so, because that is how you see the children of the Greek people, as soulless numbers in your reactionary statistics. Here, one will say, even in babies and infants you see them in terms of capitalist productivity. That's why you published a pre-school consultation document of the most sensitive ages that came from Jamaica forty years ago - so modern, that is, it is! - which closes all the famous skills and how much private capitalists will gain from the future of infants. To make it clear to you, the children of the Greek people will not become fuel for your plans, for the BSE, the OECD and the European Union, in whose name all the rulings drink water. After all, you work for them, you're the civilian staff of them. You will never be sincerely interested in many. You're only interested in the few. And since you are all pretending to be cut off for the future of students who have given pan-Hellenic examinations under the supreme arrangement of the minimum import base, which actually cuts the wings into thousands of young children, the only solution is even now to withdraw. Because you're all hypocrites. On the one hand, Mrs Kerameou says that 'we want graduates and not imported'. Who is to blame, Minister, for the fact that so many children of popular families do not complete their studies? Are they forced to work to help their families? Is it not that they cannot afford to afford the costs of studying, housing and feeding, which you are giving all these to entrepreneurs? Exceptions are those kids who are to blame for other factors. And here you show these few exceptions through your MPs, to slander thousands of young people and young people who are trying to study in adverse circumstances. In fact, the Prime Minister has come to say that they cannot and must not all become scientists. First of all, no one has claimed that everyone will become a scientist. Except that's what you say about the children of popular working families who do what they can to study their children so that they can live better. We haven't heard that say in the clean living rooms of the bourgeoisie. The bourgeois class, you see, for her children she's found a solution, whether they do or don't do for scientists. Let's say things with their name. On the other hand, to tell the whole truth, the New Democracy Government found the way from the SYRIZA government. And he found him stranded and legislated, but most importantly he prepared him ideologically. You, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, didn't you do high school even more psycho-corruption of an examination centre? You said, in fact, that this is how the schools will leave him. That's not what we see. We inform you that the New Democracy Government keeps this law for you. In fact, the unexplained Mr. Gavroglou in his recent book that Mr. Tsipras precedes, who obviously agrees with what is written, argues that the matter bank that you had to withdraw under the students' struggles is misunderstood. Mercy! And why, really, are you tearing up your clothes for the fact that the university departments are setting up the bases for introduction, which is, of course, unacceptable? Has the Ministry of Education on SYRIZA not said that universities should determine the profile of the enrolled? So don't be so sensitive today, because people don't believe you. As for colleges, this is where stones laugh. Mrs Keramos has congratulated you on recognising them because it was a directive of the European Union. So if you wanted the excellence students to enter the departments they want, give them the opportunity to safeguard the rating they wrote well. It has been proposed many times by the JRC and you have denied it, and the New Democracy and SYRIZA. Everything else is to love each other. We are calling on both of us and we tell you that you will not go through the effort you are making to convince that the existing problems of education will be resolved allegedly with the best practices of foreign and European Union. Mrs Kerame invokes the OECD. Who? The OECD, which proposes merges of schools and dismissals of teachers, to tell us that schools in Greece must be exempted from state support. What international experience do you invoke, gentlemen of the government? Does the one stress the enormous cultural inequalities in the other rated schools? Which would be only for laughing, of course, if it wasn't so serious, so tragic that if you ask the parents of a family in the countries that model you what his child will study, they will look at you in a deserted way, like you came from another planet. And really, gentlemen of SYRIZA, is your example Finland the two and a half thousand schools that have closed down in recent years? You are talking about high learning results in OECD contests that Mrs Kerameos also wants to bring to Greece and they measure skills. What exactly do you propose? To enter teaching objects in high school with modules, such as cafeteria services, instead of geography and history, as they do in Finland? Ladies and gentlemen of the government, you don't hear why you don't want to hear what students say, teachers, students, parents. The Higher Confederation of Parents of Greece has even excluded it from the hearing. So democratic! Besides, you're so sure that the world wants your bill, we've made it threatening teachers' wages. It is reasonable to fear, since teachers have massively rejected the anti-educational criteria of the evaluation of a school monkey. They are the same teachers who supported the public school when you opened it up and advertised masks and cucumbers. And do not celebrate so much the appointments of teachers you announced after years of mockery, both from you and SYRIZA, because these appointments only cover 20% of the gaps. September comes and will come again with many problems and too many gaps. What can anyone say? Here you have not succeeded in organising a scientific evaluation of the enormous educational gaps of the students, the enormous psychosocial consequences of the pandemic. And instead, you assign it to a private polling company. Mercy! You have the courage to say that with this bill you act on the dreams of the students, what they ask you - the Prime Minister's words are those from the presentation of the bill - the students that if you listened to them, as you say, we would not get here. Really, did you hear the students when they needed protection measures in their schools or called them "masters of the mask" and send them prosecutors and police, as if they were criminals? Even now you're setting up a pupil. Really, did you hear the students when they brought evidence of thousands of vacancies in education, even in pan-Europeanly examined courses, or did you call them spoiled children? We heard the students when they said there was no equal access to televising when they said we couldn't take another lesson in front of a screen, or did you celebrate that televising is going too far? Did you hear the students when they claimed not to vote and apply the minimum import base or say they don't care about the level of universities? The students over time, whatever urban government they have in front of them, demand a different school, shout out that they want a school of creative, not a centre of inquisition. Don't you know what a student or student prepares for Hellenism is experiencing? What pressure does she take, what stress and weight are she feeling? If he sleeps, if he eats, if he's willing to go for a walk? Have you ever asked a high school student if she likes school, or if she gets bored, if she's sad that she doesn't have time, but also financially possible from her family for extra-school, cultural, sporting activities? What if the years give up the gradients, her interests to deal with the pan-Hellenics? Let us think about how hard, demanding and pressing the daily lives of the students and all these laws you bring. Gentlemen of the government, we know that writing bills at the request of BSE and collegelors is laborious. But take a break to hear what students say. Yes, all those who threw them two years ago outside universities, at the same time as the schools remained open to contractors and founded spin-offs, calved expensive postgraduates, spent millions of dollars to attract foreign students with advertising campaigns of 'a little wine, a little sea and an occasional degree'. Those who gave them seventy - two hours to go to the houses where they lived to study, and now you invite them to attend live workshops within the summer. They've taken you to "true", they're laughing at your politics and your mess, they're wondering what arithmetic the opening of the fields, the cruise and not the opening of the classrooms of the thirty students with masks and distances is. What quality of study do you promote through tele-education when an electrician - engineer has not caught boards, a topographer has not made geodetic measurements, a geologist has not performed outdoor exercises? And you have the courage to talk about excellence! How fair is it for a young man to give up his studies because there is no focus and is forced to work for ten? One hundred and fifty beneficiaries of an outbreak in the NRP wait six months and even take a room. Thousands of students work and lose whole examinations at the risk of being deleted. For what digitisation the government is talking about, when student housing allowance applications opened this year with one month's delay, electronic procedures are planned only to prevent collective redress, the democratic participation of students, such as electronic votes for the administrative bodies provided for in Article of your bill. What are you brain gain for when the monthly net earnings of contract teachers in universities are no more than EUR 480? Instead of permanent teachers, you ran to hire four hundred special guards for the university police. No trouble, of course, because the law of Keramea - Chrysochoidis will be left on paper anyway. He's already been convicted of student consciousness. Do not comment on the unambiguous line of Prime Minister "tsiba the opportunity and sting with a vaccine", placing 150 euros to anyone newly vaccinated. What do you want us to do first? The ridiculousness, the devaluation of youth intelligence, the strengthening of irrationality? The most dangerous, however, is that vaccination is being traded instead of supporting general, free and public vaccination with serious vaccination campaigns, scientific expertise, preventive medical checks and health surveillance of vaccinated animals. And finally, this ministry that tables bills with the bag, why does it not bring an amendment to the integration of ASPATE into the university sector of higher education, to regulate the professional rights of graduates of ATE and of the departments established by the SYRIZA Government? Thousands of young people are in the air with the responsibility of your Government, as is the previous one. That's why we don't hear anything about it. Ladies and gentlemen, we are telling you clearly: your bill is a monument of darkness. It has nothing to do with modern, practically upgraded school. He doesn't answer the teacher's anxiety to do better. You turn him into a stubborn employee who will tremble to say something more or something different from what is imposed by your reactionary, unscientific books and programs. The bill does not give answers to parents' anxiety to see their children progress. You exclude them even more from having a reason for school issues on the school board. But, on the other hand, you ask them to put their hand even deeper in the pocket. The bill does not give an answer to the need for students to create, express, open their wings. You cut their wings and put labels in schools, classes, students from the most tender age. Besides, that's what you wanted to do with the stubborn article on the selection of students, where you finally accepted such an outcry that you got it back. You fear progress, innovation and the real excellence of many. Because the real excellence exists, when it is only the many and really separate. What modern education do you speak of when the school books of all governments teach children that there are too many truths? And then you were affected by irrationality in relation to vaccines, whose basis is precisely that, denial of objectivity of truth. You yourself are the bodies of these unscientific perceptions, only because irrationalism suits you to manipulate the popular masses and then you represent the amazes and you throw them to the citizens. But you're the ones! You and all the previous governments have put your reactionary seal in a concept that says that I don't need to take general education, because I won't be a scientist or that I don't need biology, physics, chemistry, because I'm going to choose another direction. And then you wonder that there's no trust in science. It's your creation. What freedom do you talk hypocritically about when school depends on factors outside school to work? Ladies and gentlemen of today's government, but also those who had before ruled this place, what you represent is the old one. What people represent, the fighters who can still think, dream, fight, step into science and the pioneering social ideas are the answer to the modern demands and potential of the time. Modern is not a school that separates children. We don't defend the only school book that's lying, that's distorting, that gives a cocktail party recipe, so that children can be seen as their mother tongue. We first of all want wealth of sources and electronics, but they will develop love in knowledge, teach that truth is objective and that it can be conquered by man to interpret and change the world eventually. Modern is not generally the alternative as it is forged. Modern is to make the relationship between teachers - learner and this relationship cannot be replaced by distance teaching, your so-called anti-educational theories, who want the student to fight alone with a supervisory material at home and the burden to be placed on the parent, become the parent teacher to help him get through. [[The President-in-Office of Parliament, Mr KONSTADINOS TASOULAS, takes over the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Ladies and gentlemen, the path you are following and you and the previous ones are deadlock and it's the one that brought us here. So why should our people trust you and SYRIZA? Where does it appear that continuing on the road to marketing education will solve our problems? For years parents have struggled to meet the needs of children, paying again and again for more and more activities and the lair is not closed. She's growing up all the time. Where does it appear that by continuing on the road to categorising schools and pupils will the educational level of our children, students? For years now, social barriers to education have been gradually intensified. From where does it appear that continuing on the one-sided path of the school of skills will cause students to gain critical thought? For years school books have been written with this very orientation, and the situation is not good at all, and everyone recognizes that. Ladies and gentlemen of the New Democracy, we will not do you the favor of implementing your proposal to make the training a field of converging. We will walk along with that mother, who writes, to the Prime Minister: "I want to tell you, so what I want for my children's school and more regrettable that some of what I want to see is done, but not for everyone. I want them to be able to create, be athletics, but where's the labs, where's the infrastructure? A little more intense to be sported, they fall upon each other. I want modern books to teach children that they can get to know the world. After all, did humanity not go ahead with that confidence? I want books opening the mind and touching the soul of the children. I don't think that can be done with recipes and invitations to a party. I want, therefore, perhaps more than you upgraded public school, perhaps because my children go to such a thing. I think you know all kids are different. Everyone sees that in his house. What does that mean? Should we give them a wealth of performances instead of cutting their wings? Not to be the same. We neither want it nor do we want it, but we want each child to become a separate and as integrated as possible. This seems to me modern, but fair to me. I do not know what you mean by the word 'progress', but I believe that if society advances, it should also be less unfair to give everyone more. So I say to go with the interests and needs of many, because they are my own needs too." In these words, the Greek mother ends her letter and with those words I sign, I finish my speech. I gave you, I believe, to understand why from the JRC you will collect a large and sound 'no' today and tomorrow we will help you to throw it together in the trash can where it really belongs.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u29	The President of the Group of the Party of European Socialists, Mr Kyriakos Velopoulos, is now next to the Greek Parliamentary Group for his fourth term.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u30	Thank you very much, Mr President, and very honour you are here. I would like, Minister, to speak to you about the mission of the modern teacher, the modern school. It is not to evacuate jungles, in our view, but to irrigate deserts. Since I've known all the governments, you've been bringing bills every six months for education. You're evicting the previous bill. Since 1974, dozens of bills of education. Unfortunately, the result? One worse than the other, your bills, one worse than the other, and we're talking about education, the cornerstone of society. The result of economic bankruptcy is mainly about the political bankruptcy of decades. "Poverty" our political system, "cleaned" language, "cleaned" morality, but society, above all, has "done" the leaders. It was bought in quotes. A year ago, Minister, you brought a bill entitled 'School Upgrade'. I've been asking, what has changed, Mrs. Keramea? A year ago. What's changed? Television, distance courses, unscrupulous books. Can I give an example? It's written with the wrong messages. Holy Mary, Christ Indian, Apachi, Seyu or Cheyenne. Instead of correcting these, then, you are still bringing us a bill. Today you are creating new positions, supervisors, consultants, increasing bureaucracy and spending. We are in favour of evaluation, I have said it publicly, and I keep saying it. The evaluation carried out to the MPs at regular intervals through the election must be carried out to all civil servants, either teachers or doctors, without exception, as assessed by the private employee on a daily basis by the employer and the employer. Why not have a serious one - I will say it directly - logic from all the parties, see what it means and what it will be done? That's wrong. So I'll tell you why you committed crimes as a New Democracy. Books: "I play Frisus and I learn about my body and interpersonal relations." What does that mean? Tell us, here's what this means to high school kids. Italy declared us the war, and we hid it in the basement. That's what kids learn about October 28th. The book is here. "Aki, from today you will be a man." the child's father tells him. "I don't want to be a man." The first thing we do for the 28th of October in the history book is to go to the bank to get the money for the Greeks. Where's the fight against fascism? Where's the fight against the fascists of Mussolini? Nowhere. This is yours. Yours, yours, yours, yours. All of you. Change it. Now listen. "Sakis was an electrician of twenty to twenty-five years old, he had made it with Aleka at fifteen to sixteen." Book, here it is. We're talking about pedophilia now, right? Fifteen years old. Guys, those are in school, they're books. You, the neo-democrats, who are traditional - I will say this directly - an order of protection of morals and customs. Why? Why didn't you change it? Article 6, ‘Provision to combat all forms of exclusion and discrimination and to promote integration’. What does the poet mean here? What does the Minister mean? Tell us. Article 85, ‘Selection of teaching books’. So every school will use a different book? One who's a left teacher, I know, will learn about Velouchiot, the other who's a little right will learn about Zerva. In different schools, what does it say to us? I don't understand. I'm trying to figure it out. I can't understand it. I may not have the Intelligence Index of yours and not understand, be smarter than me, and I wish that. Article 87, ‘Cooperation with third parties’. When we say 'third parties', why don't you tell us what you mean, Minister? Do you mean non-governmental organisations, to teach young children how good illegal immigration, migrant refugees, and that we should be jammed? Tell us what you mean. Article 112, you indirectly abolish but clearly all congregational schools, with the limit of one hundred and twenty disciples in ecclesiastical gymnastics. You're practically shutting it down. Article 161, ceases the operation of the General Ecclesiastes High School of Vellas and the Patriarchal Church School of Crete. Why? Article 173, ‘Registration of foreign students in secondary school units’. Can we write to schoolchildren who cannot produce official, translated documents, supporting documents for the performance of their name in Greek? Are these things going on? Madam Minister, if I'm not mistaken Tolstoy had said it, "No education is in Greek" and, unfortunately, your bill is not distinguished for his Greek history. And I am sorry to say it, because you are one of the highest ministers of this government, you have a broad knowledge, you are dialectical and you are discussing the "anti-opposite" parties, but there is no Greek-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no-no. I tell you, and you will see it in front of you, in the vocabulary that distinguishes politicians today. Turn back forty years to remember the politicians who were in here, how Greek jewelry was spoken. Now you hear the MPs here and the ministers, their Greeks are greklish. To be serious. Now, now, why is time pressing and the Prime Minister wants to talk, and so that I don't get tired of you. What did the New Democracy achieve in a year and a half? You've achieved the division. You have succeeded and selected the division of the Greeks. The New Democracy has exploited or attempted to exploit the coronary case and did not come out of it. That's the truth. You didn't come out. You are now choosing the division of society again. If the government were to choose from the outset the line of understanding, which all parties had proposed, as to how it can, because it is a pandemic, to seriously discuss each other's proposals, with freedom of speech to doctors, scientists and all views without insults. And now, Mr. Themistocleus has come out, and because some doctors disagree with the measures of their government they are described as charlatans. I do not know if Mr Themistocleus knows what 'Charlatan' means. "Charlatan" is the one who has no scientific weight and prestige, and has an opinion. It cannot be said that doctors who have a different view of the government as charlatans cannot be called charlatans. And when the government has already failed to manage the pandemic, let's see who the charlatan is and who he isn't. The government therefore chooses conflict, division and not cooperation, proposals and arguments. The Prime Minister himself incriminates citizens for his failure. At first young people who had fun, focus, churches, bells, functions, monasteries, now young people on the islands. Mr Chardalias and the other ministers of the New Democracy target young people. Why? And the non-vaccinated ones. It's all the Greeks' fault, but it's not the government's fault. We have another view of the government and the country's governance. The responsibility, in full, is because the New Democracy began, and the government is responsible for the failure of the pandemic measures and the spread of the coronary. It's over and out. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The worst partisan message is that they've had social media, unfortunately, their new-democratic voters say the following, that if they do the vaccine all Greeks will get back their lives, forgetting that we've been taken by the lenders for 15 years with the exorbitant debt of the country, they've taken our lives, they've taken life. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Do not mock the world, bankrupt country, mortgage property, huge debt private and public, national chaos issues, that is what New Democracy has achieved, unfortunately. You put the vaccinated against the invaders. The vaccinated themselves say this unbelievable, inhuman, irrational, that the one who doesn't want to be vaccinated doesn't go to the hospital, listen to what they say. In other words, how pleased the Members of the New Democracy are to listen to a voter from the New Democracy, but also to journalists and journalists, saying that he is not entitled to hospitalize a Greek who does not want the vaccine because he has reservations, he is not entitled to go to the hospital at the time we give billions for illegal immigrants to go to hospitals free. Here is the great problem of splitting and I say it directly. In a move, therefore, the Church was divided as well. The Archbishop with false evidence, unfortunately, I say this, in a booklet found lying, is used by the government to divide the flock. So we have reached the point of splitting the Church itself. Why, then, does the Church not respect the human selfishness? Since when did science become a state monopoly and I don't understand it? State, government monopoly, science! It's wrong. Let me tell you something, gentlemen of the New Democracy, that you are waiting for the Prime Minister to applaud and do well: there is no anti-infectious movement in Greece. These people, with the exception of some extreme right-wing, fascist, Nazis in there, fifty, hundred nobles, are all vaccinated. People have been vaccinated. From young children or the Army they were vaccinated. It's not an anti-infectious movement. It is a free choice movement and no enforcement of the vaccine. Understood. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] In the concentrations there are many vaccinated because they see what the government's objective is. The aim is to squeeze every other point of view. And that bothers me in the context of democracy. At the gatherings are all parties and - believe - voters of all parties, not to smoke the gatherings. There are also systoms - I imagine - communists and centre-rights. There are a lot of them. They're there because they're disappointed by the government. Because for the government, there's all the time in the state, for the Prespecies, who saw wages and pensions falling, their homes are taken by the banks, their children gone. Six hundred thousand Greeks left abroad. They are people who say "no" to authoritarianism. They are people who say 'yes' to democracy, 'yes' to choice, 'yes' to self-defence, 'yes' to all that they have fought to be free today. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I appeal to the top officers of our police, whom I respect and suspect. Give the policemen a mandate not to tear out tear gas. In Italy yesterday I watched video policemen parade in the marches of people who disagree with imposing forced vaccination to be with these people and to make a quiet journey. The police must be next to the civilian. The policeman of 800 euros doesn't want to raise his hand in Greek. The New Democracy, like SYRIZA in the Prespecies, is using repressive anti-democratic forces of MATs with the mandate of the senior police officers. And I'm sorry to say that. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] And all this stuff with horny smokers. Because you're the same as SYRIZA. It's power-slapping. It divides - I would say - an arrogance between ministers and Prime Ministers who think the state is them. The state is the Greek citizen, the Greek people and not the Prime Ministers or Ministers. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I'll tell you the most oxime of all. The New Democracy - basically, the police, the highest leadership - because - now listen - they care about the health of the Greeks. You care about the health of the Greeks, so that they don't get any concentrations, and you're throwing finished chemicals. Why? I will tell you quite simply: yesterday, I was somewhere in Magnesia and a master of seventy years, who has done both vaccines: "I when I take a car or an electrical device, I ask and I get the guarantee. Let's go and make the vaccine, and one's not the fault, the government isn't the fault, the doctors aren't the fault, the companies aren't the fault. Does that guarantee not have it?’ He told me so simple and folkly. There's no guarantee. There's no guarantee. That's why the impunity. The Prime Minister made this mistake: Article 25(1) has been invoked, claiming that he is entitled to circumvent individual citizens' freedoms by enforcing compulsory vaccination. However, Article 2(1), which lays down the principles of human value, i.e. the rule of law, has been infringed. Article 4(1), which guarantees equality and equality, has been contradicted. He has denounced paragraph 1 of Article 25 which he invoked and set the inalienable limit of the principle of proportionality, according to which the dismissal of a worker is unconstitutional as a result of his refusal to be vaccinated. The selective interpretation of the Constitution leads to authoritarian, authoritarian regimes. With ambiguity, our democracy does not work. I'm telling you why you made criminal mistakes. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] We've been telling you since March last year not to close the market, don't lockdown. Lockdown's wrong. Last year we were without vaccines. The Swedes were murderers. Your ministers went out and said the Swedes die like mosquitoes, flies, mice. Sweden has never had a lockdown, as has Switzerland. This year - I repeat - after the economy has been killed, they are trying in every way to compare sizes. I don't want to go into the macabre, compare sizes and dead between Sweden and Greece. Unfortunately, the government has failed to do so too. He killed the economy that means he killed Greece and the Greeks. That's the truth. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] As for the money given, I will tell the Prime Minister: he must also know that with borrowers you cannot produce wealth. Loans are repayable. You borrow and give. But tell the Greek people that he and his children will pay the loan tomorrow, tomorrow, in five years, ten years. And I say this because I will applaud the New Democracy and I and anyone in the government when it starts and produces wealth from me for Greek pockets, not borrow and give from here and there and scatters the money. That's what bothers me. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I have one question, and I address it to the good friends of the New Democracy: this coronary is very sloppy. Whenever he has national feasts or the Church is near to celebrate Easter or Christmas, now in the 15th century, we have an outburst. Since yesterday I hear that at 12, 13, 14, 15, that we will be on the rise. There is something insidious about - I repeat - only Orthodoxy and proper customs. I did not want to refer to the Presidency of the Republic. But I will say this: only one thing is so sad about me and I say it straight away. I did not go because the President of the Republic has disrespected the President of a party. We asked her to tell us who she would call. They called me an Apostolus, some strange convicted. He didn't tell us. We didn't go. Our right. Prime Minister, you're here. I would like next year, Prime Minister, to convince you, to force the President of the Republic to have a flag where all the Presidents of the parties are gathered, for one reason alone: the international agencies show this picture. So let us show that this area is of the Greek political parties. So convince her to the President of the Republic. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] I close here, saying: Forty-seven years after the seven years, you have built the junta a clean state, the Change Movement, SYRIZA and the New Democracy. We threw them a dozen smokers in the press. We threw them out a dozen smokers the other day. We cut them off. You've cut them off. You put them in memoirs. You closed the banks before. You kicked out the Greek's children on the inside. Macedonia was sold against a lentil plate. We fill Greece with illegal immigrants. We're taking their houses with confiscations. You closed the stores. You got them the dignity. Do you still think that the Greek wants to protect him from flu and coronary? You're wrong. You've got the wrong target. We believe that the Greek, beyond freedom, Prime Minister, is asking for economic, national dignity. He's asking to take his life back in his hands and his dignity. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] Prime Minister, I appeal to you because we have known each other for years. Tell your ministers not to go from 8:00 to 00:00, please too. It's a bad picture, because I know you guys are working at least. Let's not go to the channels all day and all night. They have ministerial duties most of them and are in the panels in the morning, noon, night. What ministers are they? Are they the ministers of the channels, the TVs? You can't expect a serious ministerial work from ministers who run around the channels all day. Prime Minister, for us the story of the pandemic was a very important opportunity for the country to be able to resuscitate. For the Greek Solution it was perhaps the top moment to take the opportunity in our hands, because there was a global crisis, so that the country could develop its morality and the Greeks could live better. I don't know if Greece, Prime Minister, needs an immunity wall. I'm sure there's no need for a wall of nonsense. And all that is happening, unfortunately, is silly and choices are wrong. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] When, Prime Minister - and I close - the people are terrified, driven, feared by a government, then we have no democracy, we unfortunately have tyranny. When the rulers fear the people then we have democracy. This is the view of the Greek Solution. And I want you to do me a favor in a little while Mr. Tsipras will speak to me. Don't start personal peaks. No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no. I think it's incomprehensible. Two years I have been in this Chamber and when I did not attack a personal level, whether family or family. I didn't do anything to expose my opponent. The opponent must be defeated by his things, by what he does, by what he says, and not by what some think they can feed his moral status. [[Applause from the ward of Greek Solution]] The story, ladies and gentlemen, is circles. In Greek history after the dwarfs and after the disaster revolutions were born, peaceful or others - I am referring to '21, to avoid misunderstandings by some leading to national awakening and uplifting. It is time for the giants to finally prevail in the country rather than the dwarfs. The time has come for the next elections which will soon, apparently, give the Greek people four years to the Greek Solution, the only solution, the solution that will bring them down and the rotten will purify it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u31	The Minister for Education and Religious Affairs, Mr. Niki Kerameos, has asked for the floor for a moment's intervention. You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u32	Just for a minute, Mr President, and apologies for the speech. Mr President, Mr Velopoulos, you say what changed since last year's bill. Educational reform, Mr President, is taking place in waves, and indeed the New Democracy Government has already passed legislation on public school, private school, vocational education and training, two legislation on higher education, and yes, we can proudly say that we have already implemented most of our pre-election commitments. You have referred to the advisers we are establishing and say that they are increasing bureaucracy. But, Mr President, the consultants are there to support the educational work, support the pupils, the teachers, and that is why we insist that they be more and closer to the school unit. You referred to a specific book. As we have responded to you through parliamentary control, a failure has indeed been detected - from an old point of view - and the correction of this book has already been launched. Mr President, I am closing down with this: things are very simple. The bill has three main pillars. Firstly, decentralisation of the system, greater freedom and autonomy at school and teachers. Secondly, evaluation of teachers and managers. Thirdly, support structures closer to school. Things are simple. Do you agree with this three? Because that is the debate in principle. We are all judged here on these three main pillars. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u33	Mr President, I would like the floor to reply.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u34	Mr President, no. He actually told you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u35	He asked a question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u36	She actually told you that in some of your remarks the implementation has been initiated.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u37	I'd be done, Mr. President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u38	Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u39	Madam Minister, I repeat once again: the book has not been corrected. It'll be corrected. 'Will'. So it wasn't corrected. You spoke of waves. Unfortunately, Minister, your mistakes are ocean and sea as government and are not easily collected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u40	The Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group, Mr. Kyriakos Mitsotakis, is called for his own speech in Stepma.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u41	Give lyricism to your political speech, Mr. Velopole, probably in summer heat. Ladies and gentlemen, about twenty-five months ago the government submitted to this Chamber just its second bill, the first important regulations on the question of public education. Since then, as the Minister has said, tens of interventions have taken place throughout the educational scale of such an area that we can actually say that a large part of our election programme in relation to education has already been completed at legislative level. Obviously, there remains the implementation of what we have voted on to substantially change public education. Of course, within the pandemic the country successfully made the big digital jump, the forced digital jump of teaching from a distance. I would like to take this opportunity once again to thank all our teachers, who supported this unprecedented process, have kept education alive in the difficult weeks of pandemic, so that children of all ages do not alienate themselves from school, to the extent, of course, that this was possible, using technology. Before entering the core of the bill, I imagine we all want to agree in this Chamber that as September is now near, our first concern will be to return all the children to school, to live training with the greatest possible safety. We have worked for two years with the pandemic limitations and we all know that despite the friendly efforts of the Ministry, teachers and students, tele-telecommunications can never replace the natural presence of students in the classroom and the core of the educational process itself, which has such intense personal characteristics. Therefore, we want the children to return to school and do so with the greatest possible safety. In order to do this, we must all agree in this Chamber that we must first and foremost convince our inconvenienceless teachers to hurry to take the step and go to vaccination. I do not hide from you that we were concerned with the possibility of compulsory vaccination of teachers, because we discussed it for the simple reason that the educational process has such characteristics that if a teacher is sick, especially in kindergarten, it is an extremely difficult process. I have, however, decided that this would not be the right solution at present. More than 70% of teachers have already been vaccinated, but there is a significant number that has not yet made this move. I think we should send all parties a very clear signal about the dangers that this poses first of all for the health of teachers. They are in an area such as school, where we are pretty sure that the virus will be released among younger children, so they will be by the nature of their work much more exposed to the possibility of getting sick and we know, of course, that pandemic, the fourth wave, is essentially a fourth wave which concerns first and foremost all our uninvasive citizens. So they have a responsibility toward themselves and to their family to be vaccinated. But they also have a responsibility towards children because, as I said before, the replacement of a teacher who is ill is not a simple matter and despite the predictions that the Ministry will receive, it will be difficult to make it possible to make up for the replacement of teachers if a large number of them are ill. Therefore, I would also like at this step to repeat my message, my appeal to all teachers who have not yet been vaccinated, to hurry to do so and to ask the teachers who have taken the step to convince their colleagues that this is the right choice, using logic arguments. After all, children should learn at school the right reason, which teachers, who are inclined to teach, must first and foremost adopt on their own personal paths. To say one more thing, of course, that those teachers who will finally choose not to be vaccinated will be sure that they will suffer an additional major suffering, because we will ask and wait for the committee responsible to make its proposal more specific, obviously often laboratory tests - I stress it, not self test - so that teachers can come to the classroom. And one last thing: As you know, the vaccination platform has already been opened for our adolescents from 15 to 17 years and from Friday the vaccination platform will be opened for children from 12 to 15 years old. I know very well that the decision to inoculate one's child, especially if we talk about younger children, is a personal decision, which must be discussed with doctors and each family will do what it thinks will be right for the child itself. What I can tell you is that if I had a child at that age, I wouldn't have any hesitation to inoculate it at all. And the child will be protected, but in this way we will help build the whole immunity wall in which we need to get to, so that the pandemic nightmare is a definitive past for our country. We already have encouraging signs of vaccination in adolescents. I think we can go much better. I understand that, as a result of the summer race, these decisions may have been postponed in time. But I firmly believe, as the experts point out, that this is the right solution and that the children from twelve or more must be vaccinated and I urge parents, in consultation with the doctors, to take this decision and to take this step. I return, ladies and gentlemen, to the bill we are discussing today. The arrangements for the new school come to supplement important reforms in primary and secondary education. This route of our coordinated initiatives, which have been unfolded for two years since the head of the Ministry of Education, does not simply mark the many accumulated problems in education that seek a solution, not only, as I said, the consistency of our government with the election commitments. They state, above all, our political choice, which is my personal choice to become a national priority once again, to become a lever for social mobility, to become an opportunity for individual advancement for all Greek birds, and also a catalyst for the country's collective progress and development. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The importance of the bill we are discussing today is a special one, because I would say that it re-establishes the foundations of our education. It starts from the two-year pre-school education in kindergarten, which will be applied throughout the country for the first time since this September, it runs primary and high school and completes its cycle in high school. In other words, it organizes in modern standards the backbone of education, preparing educated citizens, ready to follow either academic or professional course, all of them and all of them, first and foremost equipped with the skills required by their era and environment. And in this public school upgrade operation, all powers have been exploited since September. More teachers, since for the first time after 12 years, eleven thousand seventeen hundred permanent appointments were made following the four thousand five hundred recruitments in special education. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] At the same time, schools will open up by integrating dozens of innovations, such as establishing a foreign language from the kindergarten, a hundred and twenty new curricula at all levels, workshops, new digital equipment and skills classes everywhere, teacher training and double standards schools and professional high school. Allow me to make a stand here to invoke the figures, which in this case also tell the truth. Only this year for four thousand nine posts in the standards and experimental schools were submitted more than thirteen thousand unique applications, while in the six professional high school models that we have created since the first phase, the number of stakeholders that had taken place throughout the year has already been completed and there are still two phases left, two cycles of interest in September, which means that society is not just more mature than ever for these changes, they are sought and they are sought with intensity. But all this is not just individual measures, which simply improve the current situation. On the other hand, they are pillars, sides of a comprehensive project with three objectives. And I would really like, as the Minister said, to see if we can in this Chamber at least agree on the basic pillars that are under way: Firstly, in the better education of pupils through the release of educational and autonomy of school units from the Ministry's control. More freedom in schools, teachers and teachers. Secondly, the need for continuing training for teachers, but the work of which should be assessed so that it can be strengthened. And thirdly, the strengthening of educational structures in the field of modern teaching. These attempt to make the bill, which will become the law of the state tomorrow. And I say this differently: it is a reform which offers open knowledge to children. At the same time, however, he shows great confidence in our teachers and teachers. It is a reform that offers independence to the action of each school, but also help with accountability to all its factors. And while the lessons of the new school must come from the future, the relationship between teachers and teachers is called on to revive a valuable experience that I believe we all hold from the past, the positive influence that an unforgettable teacher or a visionary teacher has once again exercised to all of us. Ladies and gentlemen, I do not think there is any doubt that the quality of education is entirely linked to the autonomy of school units. And, unfortunately, as the Minister and our rapporteur have explained, the comparison with international data is, unfortunately, disappointing here. Greece is in this area, unfortunately, nowadays in the OECD countries, as more than 80% of the decisions to do with the operation of the school are finally taken by the Ministry of Education and not by the teachers or their director. In other words, for what is finally happening in the classrooms, there is no reason for those who train in them, but some who sit in some offices far away from them. And the result of the educational process is, unfortunately, visible. For example, until now only us and Cyprus throughout Europe have retained the only school manual. But that's changing now. And from now on, there will be more sources that the school will choose from a new record of teaching books and from its digital library. Our aim is to memorize gradually to be replaced by criticism and creative thinking, as well as children's performances can be judged with much more flexibility. I never understood why the Ministry should define in detail the way in which students are examined in the classroom. Now we are giving more flexibility, the traditional tests, which will obviously continue to play their part, to be able to become the students' individual or group work, to give the teacher the opportunity to make these interventions. He or they finally know better what is going on within the classroom and what is the right way within a broad context to be able to assess the progress of their students. At the same time, the curriculum is being modernized. However, it is also framed by skills courses or forms of socialization, depending on each stage of education. Technology will now have to run across all classes, but different ages will also become familiar with different subjects, such as sexual education, individual rights, road safety, entrepreneurship, environmental protection, to mention only some, because, as I said, the school route must also be done in Greece, the fertile path of the child and the teenager towards the station of mature and integrated citizens. In a world that constantly changes its knowledge of today, we do not know whether it will respond to tomorrow's professions. It is not enough today, at the time of the internet, where with a simple search we can have access to any information, the student simply knows information. This is also a useful and necessary part of the educational process, but it is not enough. The student must, above all, learn how to constantly learn how to work together, how to adapt to a group of different starting points, but with the same goal. And that is where the so-called'smooth' skills - soft skills in English - can offer our children exactly these demands, that is, our children can be taught robotic, but do not react like robots. Schools will also have the freedom to set up their own academic and educational programmes, to set up, at the initiative of the training groups, to cooperate with other bodies in joint actions, while the manager finally takes up the role stated in his title, that is, he is managing and evaluating his existing teams, organizing in-school training. And head of a staff member also ensures cultural life at school, but - why not? - and for its additional economic strength, claiming sponsorships and donations from the local community. The centre of gravity of the education process is then boldly and with confidence by the Ministry at the autonomous school, and this constitutes the great intersection of this bill. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And I would be very interested to hear the views of the political leaders on all these specific proposals which will soon become state policies. They all seem self-evident to me. It would be a good job if we could at least agree on some of them to give a stigma that, in some of the obvious changes that concern the very operation of the school, the process of education can ensure cross-party consensus that makes everyone feel that these reforms can have real depths and root in Greek society. The head of each unit now, because it is upgraded, becomes new partners. So, the director would be assisted by the assistant directors, whom he might recommend, but also by other supportive institutions, such as the inter-school coordinators and the interconnectors in vocational schools. At the same time, the Director's term of office is growing from three years to four, so that he can have a longer-term perspective to implement his actions. The other aspect, however, of autonomy is evaluation, a necessary counterweight that must exist, as every time an organisation is released from the suffocating central control, there must also be a framework of control to avoid possible diversions. It is also an assessment of a necessary security link to avoid privileged relations between colleagues and abuse of a leading position. However, at the same time, it is also an instrument for continuous improvement of the teaching work provided. It applies everywhere - everywhere! - in the developed world and its usefulness must at last be recognised in general terms in our country too. The evaluation proposed by the Ministry concerns two levels, the school unit and its employees, teachers and teachers. Each school will have its own website with its actions, open to anyone, and of course, the progress of the programmes will be reflected in an anonymous evaluation of pupils' knowledge in the last year of primary and high school, a very important information that the Ministry must have, so that we can make these interventions in order to improve the results of the country in international educational evaluation indicators such as PISA, where, unfortunately, we have not been distinguished over the last four years, and every two years, teachers will be evaluated for their work, but also for their service consistency by the Director, by the Scientific Expert and Educational Responsibility Adviser. The results of the evaluation will either result in greater ease of responsibility or - if it is determined that the assessor has scope for improvement - in training. However, the assessors will also be assessed. The school manager, for example, will be subject to the judgement of the Education Director and the Educational Responsibility Adviser on the basis of the efficiency of the school unit, such as their views on it can also be anonymised every year by its own people. Resupply, therefore, becomes a norm. Ladies and gentlemen, after such a great debate within and outside the House, I think it is unnecessary to respond to the criticism made by some in the evaluation, not only because it is based on myths now rejected by parents and students themselves, but because evaluation is now a mature demand for society. I would remind you that in a recent survey seven out of ten citizens consider it necessary to evaluate in schools and nine out of ten citizens in accordance with the new themes proposed by the Ministry. Obviously, there are many voters of SYRIZA among them. In addition, as I said, this issue has been solved for a long time. In Europe, evaluation is a rule, and its need is not called into question. There may be a fruitful discussion of how this will be conducted, but it is an essential component of the educational process. Let me at this point read you a small text, which is about ten years old and is a testimony describing the existing situation at the time - to a large extent still applies today - and raises two questions, at the same time giving its answers. I am saying this because it is very easy - I have always listened to this criticism and when I was Minister for Administrative Reform - to say 'yes, in principle we want the evaluation', but every time we get into the detail of how we are going to make it stumbling up, questions, so that ultimately the evaluation becomes impossible. If we agree that evaluation is necessary, let us find a common place for what is the best framework for us to be able to carry out it. So I read a calm statement, which was made in neutral time by a graph that would be difficult to say is serving party purposes. I transfer it: "The evaluation of a teacher is the assessment of his scientific and teaching competence, teaching capacity and his service consistency. Who can assess these? Two people in cooperation: the school manager and the school advisor. Who else knows the teacher's daily responsibility? For his scientific adequacy, the consultant shall have the first reason. It is true that every teacher is aware of the evaluation report, with the right to object." It was in this direction that the intellectual and multi-dimensional educationer Stavros Zumbullakis has already been in progress since 2012, strengthening the existing educational structures, but also by setting up new ones. Thus, training consultants are growing to eight hundred and still hired a thousand psychologists and social workers to support children as a whole and deal with extremely worrying phenomena, such as the bullying group, as well as counselling offices as well as professional guidance offices. My aim, ladies and gentlemen, today, is not to present in detail all the individual measures included in the reform of primary and secondary education. My aim is first and foremost to highlight the social content of this reform and even its modernist character, but also its development mark, because I will say it again: If there is a path to the personal development of every child in Greece, his potential valor must be public education. And if there is a force that eventually moves the national economy, it is public education again. Here I would like to give a parentheses. One of the reasons that so many foreign technology companies are interested in investing in our home country is not only our fine climate or any tax incentives we may have put in place to attract foreign investment. It is first and foremost the educational level, the knowledge and the work of the young graduates of our universities and polytechnics. For the human potential above and above all comes foreign businesses in Greece. This human resource is what should, in consultation and dialogue with the labour market, lead to the necessary adaptations to the educational system, so that the needs of a labour market in an economy developed by trained graduates and also by holders of technical education, which our country so much needs. So we are talking here today about the public school of the next decade, which will move open knowledge to happy students, with their liberated and creative teachers and teachers, with classes for all classes where not only equal opportunities will be offered, but also equal rights to opportunity for every child. That is why school must be demanding, both to its employees and to its students, because a school very easily does not ultimately serve to alleviate inequalities, but simply gives an additional advantage to those who may already be strong or lucky at the start of their life. So public school liberation eventually benefits the weakest and the demolition of public school is finally at the expense of the weakest, because, you know, this leveling down, which you like to call "democracy" does nothing but deprive children of the basic weapon for their progress, finally addicts them to the minor effort, preventing them from being bet on individual bets, but also from team action leading to either scientific or academic careers. Build up, so, through these politically responsible citizens who are after all looking for a 'father' to protect them, i.e. manipulated citizens. That is why I ask that this Chamber also stop sounding happy lies which flatter the ears, but burn the brains. Where did it sound that training in a country which produces a whole range of unemployed graduates today, with 15% unemployment, is lacking by qualified and well-paid professionals? I ask you to consider who is the elite, who considers the student equally proud and decent, the student and the student, the scientist and the skilled craftsman, or who is the one fishing in the blur waters of a university supposedly for everyone, but ultimately for anyone's future? [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] According to EUROSTAT, from the hundreds of young people entering our universities, not even sixty, in fact 59%, graduates. It's the worst performance in Europe. And instead of seeing what it is, some keep sharing false promises. Our young people, however, are not asking for hopes soon to be eradicated, but the prospects for their future, that is to say, from good studies that will produce scientists who will promote development, but also from good technical education, which will produce good professionals who will build it daily along with their own personal success. It is high time, Mr Tsipras, that you get serious and stop poisoning those who still can hear you. There can be no basic import basis for universities. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] As also, there can be no need for institutions to speak of the number of students to be welcomed. We know very well that the vast majority are not graduating. And finally, think again of this unwise promise that you have easily launched, that candidates will supposedly keep their grades, at first you said "forever", now you said "for a year, until they enter". It is not only something that is contrary to matter, to the circumstances, to the very integrity of the pan-Hellenic examinations - all this changes every year - that is a flagrant injustice for the next generation of students next year who will want to claim their entry into higher education. And to explain: if you really want to be consistent with what you mean then dare. You are proposing not abolishing but maintaining the minimum base, but entering only those who do not get it. Because that's exactly what you're coming to tell the young children today, promising what? That you will retrospectively come to the university from the "back door" to a university from which they have great chances of not graduating, closing their eyes, i.e., on a route when you know very well the facts today from the graduation rates especially from a number of parts that have an extremely low import base, where they end up with students who have no interest in studying this object. And we pretend, we all pretend "the child entered the university" and attends a section based on an introduction "4", from which he will probably not graduate, to reach 25 years old to say "bravo" to the child who entered the public university. And you think this is for the child's sake. If you really believe to come and explain why. At the same time as the country has a huge need for technical education and for the first time through computerisation, it is possible for children to go to public IEKs, where I would remind them that they choose to teach not a few university graduates. We have, in other words, the phenomenon of someone going to college, getting a degree and ending up coming back to the public IEK because it very simply realizes that there will have a greater chance of getting it restored professionally. So let us finally talk to these young children with the language of truth, rather than shut them down once again with disguised populism, with a voting logic which is not just in other decades but in another century. I shall close, Mr President, with this comment. This is undoubtedly a bold reform, the one currently being proposed by the Ministry, which comes to upgrade the content of knowledge from kindergarten to high school. Our aim is to cultivate the critical thinking of the students, to incorporate new teaching methods into school and above all to familiarize our students with the new skills that our times require. Most of all, however, we come back to trust our children's education with their teachers and teachers. The state today makes a decisive, decisive step, giving the learning initiatives to its true protagonists, to each school, to every class, to every corner of Greece. It equips public education with processes, with means and of course with inspiring material and frames it with faith in the great potential of its employees. We have every reason to be optimistic about the new school of the twenty-first century that starts its course from September to September. And to make it a reality, I ask for the support of everyone. We say it, but let's see if we can really do this. Public education is a case of nationalism, and that is why, despite the conflicts that have taken place, I would ask you to lower the tone, to reread the bill which we are bringing to the vote today, and all the calm observers I think will be able to see there the really progressive spirit that goes through it. That is why, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, before you decide what to vote maybe you should listen to an advice that has been made many years ago, but I think it is perfectly true in your context and in your case. The emblematic leader of the Italian Left, Enrico Berlinguer, said - listen to it - "Comrades, it is time to develop a property that we lack, to look for the truth that is hidden in our opponent's words." So today, I ask you to do something like this, but it's much easier to get away from the absolute refusal without first seeing what it is that you deny, that is, that you will instinctively stop saying good night when everyone else tells you good morning. Because meanwhile in the real world it may indeed have dawned on a new light day! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u42	Following the speech of the Prime Minister, the Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mr Alexis Tsipras, who has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u43	Thank you, Mr President. Forty-five minutes Mr Mitsotakis read very nice chips and wastes, among other things, written by his scholars, but he was unable to talk about the substance. And the essence today is that thousands of young children and their families are faced with a dramatic perspective, in a very tough dilemma. While they could have a prospect of joining the public university to study, they are in a very dramatic dilemma as to whether they should find the financial potential of their families to go abroad or to some college of doubtful value of educational opportunities. That is the main issue. And Mr Mitsotakis once again came here reading excavations of his scholars about left-wing leaders, and he actually implements a policy that is at the absolute counterfactual. The man who implements a Bogdan rhetoric strategy came here to talk to us about Berlingwer! [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But it's not all communication, Mr. Mitsotakis. Today, here, you will give answers. I have been convening you for three months on the question of introducing into higher education, because I consider it to be a major issue. It is the future of Greek society, the future of our children. And I ask you questions about the Prime Minister's time, which you refused to answer, three times, if I am not mistaken, in the end you told us that you would allegedly not spoil the peace of the candidates and come here today afterward and swing our fingers. And I am telling you, precisely because I consider it the major issue for the future of the Greek society, the future of our children, to be the sole concern of this today. We will find time sometimes to talk about your burns in the pandemic, your achievements, which are made by fiasco fiasco and a dead end to a dead end, and where, when the cases get up, you give the blame to the citizens and when we have a recession in cases, you celebrate you have won. We will find the time to say these and the issues relating to equality and the laws that you do not observe in terms of transparency in public life. We will find the time and you will apologise for all of this, but now we will talk exclusively about education and solely about the major issue that concerns thousands of Greek families, not one or two or three thousand. You are the only government from the post-Multipulation and after you wanted to change the system of introduction to higher education and implement this change in the same year. It never happened before. Many governments have passed with their own views, their own logic, reforms, including changes in the framework of introduction to higher education. However, they all tried to change it by giving it an adjustment trawl. And you do this the year that was the most difficult year in the history of the pan-Hellenic exams, because it was the most difficult year for all Greece, for all Greeks, for every Greek family. And for these children, today, you are putting cutters and secret cutters and denying them the opportunity to study at a public university, which, I repeat, is more than twenty thousand. This is the biggest reduction we have had since the establishment of the Greek university. There was no bigger than 1837. So, children, who lack this prospect, all last year and last year, during the two difficult years of 2nd and 3rd grades, were unable to meet their classmates, to learn by living lessons with their teachers, were isolated in quarantine, psychological pressure. And you, in this difficult year, chose to bring this terrible reform. The question is why. And we have come to the Greek Parliament in time to tell you that we are disagreeing with what you are doing, but at least don't do it this year. You insisted. But you had taken care before in quarantine conditions for the Parliament itself, that your Minister should come here and bring amendments which in practice equate college degrees with the diplomas of higher education institutions, by obliging chambers and professional associations to register graduates of colleges in their registries. And so we're all stunningly discovering what your purpose is. Your feasibility is not reform, it is not your pain that we do not have and we have graduates who do not have the ability to write in pan-Hellenic tests good. Because if that were the case, you would define an import basis or criteria for admission to private colleges. But you didn't put an import base there. There the only basis for admission was the economic potential of the parents of the candidate students. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And I come here, and I conclude, ladies and gentlemen, that beyond the ideological obsession, and you personally, Mr Mitsotakis, but also Mrs Kerameos, are ignorant of what it means to the public Greek university, because you have never studied it, but you have also been ignorant of what it means to you, because you have never passed this suffering. You were children of college who had the financial potential of their parents - and welcome it - to go directly abroad and study in good universities abroad, but they are just as good as the Greek universities. So you have no knowledge of this process, you do not even know what it means to give in two years, because two years is essentially the adaptation and the entire effort, from the community of your powers, adolescent gar, adolescents, children who at the time have concerns, want to be in love with their friends, but they are in the house and they read and have to be judged within three hours. And within these three hours they can also write excellent children to a lesson worse. What are you guys doing about these kids today? You come back here and you move the finger to me, you say it's populism. What's populism? Is it populism to defend the right? Is it populism to want in this place everyone to have access to knowledge regardless of their financial capacity? That's what the Constitution defines. It's constitutional, it's not populism. And so you come today, when the perpetrator of secret transactions has also been revealed, trades, obviously with private interests - because it does not explain otherwise what you are doing - but the core of your plot has also been revealed. And I'm going to be much more specific. So you spoke about the students of '2' and '3' who should not go to public universities. But here you are cutting off excellent students, you are denying the possibility of excellent people having access to their schools of choice. What do you have to say about that? Will you fix this? Are you concerned about this? Last week in the House, Prime Minister, I read to the Minister - some and rightly termed it the worst minister since postmultipulation - a letter from a student from the 1st Athens model in Plaka. This letter specifically raised this issue in the type of sunshine. Excellent student, he wrote excellent points in all the courses, in the special course, because there was a special base far more than "10", he did not get it, he won't go to his selection school. Today, I would like you to listen carefully to another letter. It is obviously a letter to the Minister of Education, but I think you have a responsibility and you must listen with care. She's a student of Helen from a general high school in Agrinio. "This year I also spent the painful process of the pan-Hellenic examinations in a confessly difficult year. I gathered the very high score of nineteen thousand nine hundred eighty-seven points, but I am not allowed to apply for the Translation School of the Ionian University in Corfu, which is my first school of preference. This is because, while I wrote English '17.8', in French I failed to catch a few molecules in the special import base. I thought your reform was intended to exclude from the students' universities with scores of "2" and "3", as you said. Congratulations, then, you did it. You ruled me out on a general score of more than seventeen. The reform has succeeded, then. You can be proud. I want to point out that French has never been taught in my school, but my father, a poor man, has been paying for two years to help me achieve my dream. In the last two years, as a result of pandemic, lessons and French have become online, with what this implies for their proper learning. Many times I've thought about whether it's constitutional or whether it's happening in another country to ask for admission to university courses that have never been taught in schools. I know what you will answer, that I can apply for another school, but have you ever heard the word 'dream'? So it was my dream and you deprive me of it. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And you deprive me of it in a completely absurd way, since you judge me capable of entering the French Athens Philology with the same ranking in French, but not in the Translation Corfu. I mean, in your mind, I can teach French, but I can't translate. Does that make sense? Well, not for me," the student says. "I will definitely enter another school. ‘Small evil’, you say. I disagree," she says. "Evil is great. That's why it's society that's today, with people who do their job just for biopolitics, without actually loving it, without feeling creative, without a little bit of care. That's exactly the word. So I'm going to join another school. But you will always be in my conscience those who deprive me of my life." [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] What do you have to answer, Mr. Mitsotakis? What do you have to answer? Don't answer me. Answer the student. What are you going to answer to Helen? Leave the Opposition. Leave the Opposition that doesn't know where he is! You have taken such a forum, you have such a pretext that you don't even listen to us, but you don't listen to the world, you don't listen to the citizens. You live in a glass that they've created media that's been there from morning to night to repository and you think you can do anything. You can't do anything because there are people. There are also people who have needs, who have dreams, who have rights and who are against you now. Give an answer, then: Why do you insist on this abortion? Why don't you come here today to ask you, at least at the very last moment, to say 'we're wrong, we're going to see all this again'? You don't answer me. Answer these kids. But beyond the idea of serving - badly lies - I said it and I will say it once again clearly: you are cynical. In your pandemic all concern is to serve private interests, no matter what the public interest. You brought a new bankruptcy to serve the interests of the banks, no matter whether they lose their homes, their properties, if they go bankrupt, households, natural persons for the first time. You brought the working bill in order to implement the design and serve the interests of BSE and magnifiers. You abolished the eighth hour, brought unpaid overtime. You create a climate of immunity in the labour market at a time when we are all looking to guard against everything that is going on around us and you bring this bill. You don't care about the public interest in the interests of co-operatives. You brought an increase of 50 minutes a day. You'll bring her back from 2022, while you've had two and a half years keep the payroll down. At a time when accuracy is gigantic, you bring an increase that is a coupe daily for the worker - that is - again to serve interests. You brought the insurance day before the House, which creates a huge hole in public finances, and even the Committee on the Budgets of the House points out that a question will be raised in relation to public debt in the coming years. So are you bringing something very risky without a need for reform in the insurance system - is our insurance system viable - with the sole aim of serving what? Some private interests who want to gamble the money of the workers and the insured. Now we see what you do in education. Why are you doing this? I told you again in another debate here in the House and you did not answer that you also have a class commitment. I will not go into what you said in the election, and there were no slogans and virals on the cooler from Peristeri. However, I would refer to the fact that our government had made sure that it would give a special quota of 1% to the children of night-schools. In other words, 1% of the admissionees concerned only children of night-schools. They were actually competing with each other to get through. It was about six hundred kids, if I'm not mistaken. You have come to apply the minimum import base, so that no one can obviously pass or pass. These children, Mr. Mitsotakis, are not descendants of wealthy families. Maybe it's in another world than you're used to living. But these kids go there and work in the morning and go in the evening to study and have the opportunity, even though they work, to have a better perspective in their lives and cut them off. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] They are, and you tell us today, about technical training, about skills. The other great innovation: Recommend a second computer for introduction to IEKs. What are you talking about? Since someone to sign up for the IEKs only needs the discharge. You want to cultivate the impression that IEKs are part of higher education. Mr Mitsotakis, the conclusion made by us, as a parliamentary group, but I believe that the majority of Greek society, too, is that, apart from the fact that you are doing so, let me say it popular, deals with interests, you serve interests, indifferent to the public interest, you also have a special hostility towards young people, towards youth. Cutter in higher education institutions, you hire police officers in universities instead of recruiting teachers who need them. Because if we want to talk at this time about convergence with European universities, we need to talk about the proportion of teachers and students in Greek and European universities. Teacher recruitment should therefore not become police officers in public universities. You mentioned before, false evidence once again, that the vast majority of incoming people do not come out. Where did you see these? Absolutely comparable are the statistics of the Greek universities with Europeans, at 75%. 75% of those who enter the Greek universities are now graduated. But you have this animosity against youth: Koftis at the AEI, police officers instead of teachers, stigmatizing young people for the pandemic, "they are to blame", wood in the squares, mockery with the money pocket to get vaccinated, an increase - 50 minutes a day for young people - especially the minimum wage - and, of course, if you have acquaintances and "congested", rosétés and a state which is finally double, but in places with "blue" children and Golden Boys in the ECI. That's your logic. But young people, I repeat, are the future, the prospect of this place. That is why I ask you once again, Mr Mitsotakis, to come to even five and agree on something that will not hurt you, that will do you good. You're going to tell me: Why am I asking you to do this? I believe that, in this crucial issue concerning the future of young children, our controversy is not so important. So it will do well in Greek society. Take back today, accept our amendment. You don't want our amendment? You testify to one of your own. Take back, even for this year - and open dialogue on what will happen next year - the minimum import base, the one that deprives dreams, the portion of thousands of young children today. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You say you don't care, you won't, you live in another world. You think the criticism we're making is obsolete. You've been blinded by the arrogance of power and the arrogance of power, telling you that you're scavengering, going wonderfully, you'll win all the elections you've got in front of you, you're the greatest, maximum of the tyranny. Yes, sir. You can have any delusion you want. But we are talking to society and understand that Greek society is boiling and we have a responsibility towards Greek society. We have a responsibility not to pete ears - things will be difficult - but at least to do what we can to restore the sense of injustice, bring justice back to this place, and above all, to do what we can to create realistic expectations and hopes. So, as Mr Mitsotakis - because you have asked me and criticised me because you are giving me hope to these children - as we did - and we have done it - with those who fired in 2014 and reinstated them when we became government, so we are saying today that the restoration of an injustice is not populism, but is a basic principle of a rule of law. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we are saying today - and I am telling you today - that I really care to discuss this critical issue today, Mr Mitsotakis, ladies and gentlemen, that my assessment is that the year is coming will be a year with rapid and intense developments, will be very burdened with political time, and political developments will be rapid and intense. So I am obliged as Chief of Officership to stand against the Greek people and speak straight, honestly and with a sense of responsibility. A progressive government can relocate the place to a path of justice and has a duty to restore the great injustices. That is why I have committed myself and committed myself again, saying that as soon as SYRIZA is in the country's governance, if, in a year from now on, it is obviously not possible for anyone to carry on for a long time, but if within the next year we have the political developments that lead to political change, which we wish and for which we are fighting for, and within and outside the House, then we are committed, firstly, to abolishing this misery that you have brought, the minimum import base, and we will try to cure these injustices, by moving forward to this regulation. We will open parallel computers, especially for candidates who have not been introduced into the university in 2021 because of the minimum import bases. They will not take the place of anyone else to know, because there will be thousands of vacancies in schools that have worthy teachers, infrastructural values and perspective, which will risk closing next year, especially in regional universities. The sections that will now be accessible through the special computer to these candidates are those that were not accessible to them because of the specific base of 2021. The molecules with which they will claim access to these sections are the molecules they collected in 2021. We will respect the number of total posts allocated by your Government for 2021, that is, the seventeen thousand, but we will not leave a single vacancy. Not even a student who can study at a Greek public university will stay out. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] And we will not hide behind so-called institutional decisions to cut young people and instead of seventy-seven thousand, we will give, as you are doing today, fifty or sixty thousand. So, in July 2022, our commitment is, since we are in the governance of the place, to open up a parallel special computer technology exclusively for candidates in 2021 who in the computer it opened in July 2021 had no access to the sections due to the minimum basis. At the same time, for the candidates who have been introduced, but who have been victims of the distortions of the special base and of the coefficients of gravity, we will be able to transfer them to a similar section, since the total import molecules of the candidate are more than the last person to be transferred. Ladies and gentlemen, this is an act of redress for justice and I repeat that what is right must be done. It's not a promise of air. And, of course, this position and attitude and commitment can only be accompanied by the commitment we have and the planning, now that we are out of the Memorandum of Monitoring, to focus on higher education and secondary education, doubling the funding of the Greek universities, doubling the number of university teachers over a period of four years. They are costly proposals aimed, I repeat, at strengthening our universities. In conclusion, I would like to address the young people and young people who are now feeling unsuccessful, and who have done them extremely well in the pan-Hellenic examinations, and thousands of others who have not done so well, but could have been introduced, and today because of the government's attitude. I want to tell them you didn't fail. Don't think it's a personal defeat. You are, unfortunately, victims of a vengeance system, which has not been based on any academic study, except on political purposes. You are the victims of a fanatical, obsessed government, who thinks that by dissolving public education, she will avenge her political opponents. He's actually digging the pit of Greek society. We won't let that happen. We'll be right next to you, but look forward. Your future belongs to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u44	Before giving the floor to Mrs Gennimata, I would like to see Mr Kostas Barkas, who, on behalf of the House, has recently run to Zagori Mountain Running. He ran the semi-marathon mountain, twenty - one kilometers, represented the entire House and went well. There are those things. It is a popular and international struggle in Zagori, which has an international turnout. [[Applause from all sides of Parliament]] Well, Mrs. Fotini Gennamata, President of the Change Movement Parliamentary Group, has the floor for her own fifteen-minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u45	Mr President, thank God you have made this speech and changed the climate of the debate, because for an hour now we have been following the results of this false barbarism and on the subject of education, a debate which leads nowhere, which does not solve problems, which does not actually come to the fore. On the one hand, we have heard the Prime Minister of the country describe everything that does not do this bill and on the other hand, the Chief of Officerial Representation, with an impertinent populism, and on the other hand they are responsible for the levelling-up of education, even the levelling-up of issues of foreign language, even the dreams of young people. We must, therefore, give serious thought to all the political forces in the field of education, to look at the problems and finally to provide solutions which are not given through this draft government law. And of course, we cannot talk here, in this Chamber, as if nothing else is going on in this country. Because problems are a lot. I'm starting with the big pandemic problem, because the fourth wave is here. We are again faced with a threat of health, social and economic. Despite the appeals and warnings of the Change Movement not to repeat last year's relaxation, to finally have a plan and to implement effectively and to accelerate the vaccinations, unfortunately, the New Democracy Government ignored our proposals, has once again produced the reassurance and repeated the same mistakes. Wrong manipulations, which have also cost the people's confidence. There's a salt. One minister threatens and announces measures one day and his next colleagues cancel him dryly. The Prime Minister himself and government officials choose a completely split speech, currently separating society into anti-invasive and non-invasive, while ensuring that they respond to the concerns and questions of those concerned with the vaccine, which they should have done for many months now. They dealt with communication alone and control through the media. You may think, Prime Minister, that it suits you to this polarization, this new division, because they hide all the other problems and force Greek society to enter two camps and choose a camp. But I say to you that this new division is extremely dangerous both for public health and for social cohesion and, ultimately, for the quality of our democracy. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Our message is clear. We're up-to-date. We hear the voice of reason and science. We say 'yes' to vaccination and 'no' to division. We care. That's why we're vaccinated. We've started our campaign in the Movement of Change. We're doing whatever goes through our own hand. But you have the main responsibility, Prime Minister. Finally, take responsibility for you! Ladies and gentlemen, in the shadow of the pandemic, New Democracy is building a Greece for a few. The party state was re-established against all concepts of democracy and efficiency. Instead of transparency we have fast track photo provisions for a party and business elite. Instead of pluralism, we have the information manipulation operation. Instead of reforms, we have deregulation of conquests and violation of rights. Instead of security for the citizen, we have serious crime. And, of course, instead of a national understanding and a new national strategy, we have an external policy characterised as defensive and passive. On the occasion, Prime Minister, I would like to ask you: When you came back from the last European Council, you declared yourself absolutely satisfied with the way in which the Europeans handled the issues relating to Turkey and its challenges. Today, after Turkey's attempt to proceed in a fait accompli with Cyprus, do you continue to plead satisfaction with your handling and your own and the European Union to date with regard to these matters? I'd like an answer, because I imagine you're going to have a second. So the bill under discussion is another example in the sensitive area of education for the conservative policies of the New Democracy Government, conservative policies that extend across the whole range of political life. I would say that the members of this government, even its MPs, are competing with who will show that he is the most right-wing, conservative. All for the few and the strong, and the lion's share of the resources of the Recovery Fund. That is now absolutely clear and I think that no one in this place has the slightest doubt. The corner of financing and investment for small and medium-sized enterprises has been closed for your part and you have let them alone face the problem of the consequences of the pandemic. Strengthening the National Health System has gone to the bells, Prime Minister. Recognition of his people's, health, remained on the applause from the balconies a year ago. And it turns out it's time to close public units for the benefit of major private interests in the health sector. Should we go to the workers? Workers have to go through with the symbolic increase of the 13 euros you announced. And they have to deal with the slightest symbolic increase in all prices. We have huge precision right now, which is getting worse every day that passes, and you have done nothing to deal with it. And, of course, they are without rights and with subjugated contracts after the new labour law. At the same time in this House you brought a bill to debate that will dramatically reduce supplementary pensions and the only benefit will be the fund management companies and, ultimately, private insurance companies. You are consciously abandoning the citizen. You are turning ‘whoever survives on his own’ into a rule. You face every collective expression as an enemy at all levels. Empowerment, fragmentation and opacity dominate. And, of course, social inequalities are expanding every day. The very same conception prevails in education, what you have brought to this day. In bills, ministerial decisions, one is the pattern: enforcement, control, compliance. Digital revolution requires changes and reforms. It's clear. If one asks whether one needs a deep reform in education today, the answer is 'yes', so that there can be genuinely equal opportunities for young people, and those who are 'over and below the river'. But changes that should be the continuation and adaptation of the new conditions of Greek society, of the major reforms and of themes and changes that have taken place in recent years by the PASOK governments and have withstanded today in the field of education. But what are you doing? You're taking me back all the time. They dominate old, outdated, deep authoritarian concepts, along with inefficiency and inefficiency, as seen in the pandemic. What should we want to do first? Remember that no substantial measure was taken to keep schools open? All you did was announce when they close and when they open. You did not support distance education as you had to. You let the teachers get through this alone. The result is that today there are serious learning gaps in our students. Remember the maintenance of SYRIZA's unacceptable laws for teachers, the only change being that the ‘pink’ strains were replaced by the ‘blue’, without any criteria at all? Remember the equalisation of college diplomas with those from universities and polytechnics and, of course, the deterioration of vocational education? Of course, Prime Minister, there is a huge deficit today in the productive sector, in fact, a model that we seek from skilled people to produce, but you do nothing about it at all. On the contrary, you're also downgrading vocational training. Remember the authoritarian and anti-democratic attitude of teachers? For the first time in Postpopulation we have councils without the participation of elected representatives of teachers. This has never happened since the dictatorship. Remember the law that leveled the rights of private teachers, the reinstatement of politically outdated, the reintroduction of the conduct in the dismissals? What time are we in? Are we in the Middle Ages? Remember the problems created by the sloppy government choices - a great debate has taken place today - about the introduction of the EEIGs? But neither of us at all wants to enter students' universities with '4' and '5'. But you cannot rule out masters from the schools of their choice. It is unbelievable that your care is taken and you must immediately solve the problem you have created. On the other hand, you are taking measures entirely administrative in the pandemic, while everyone was told not to do it in the pandemic. You come and put a cutter at an administrative glance and you do absolutely nothing to raise the level of education and stop writing these grades. Doesn't that bother you? What are you doing to stop this? Because next year they will be writing '4' and '5'. Will we have a few thousand other out of anything, on the margins, without any other educational procedures and routes? You therefore insist on fragmentary interventions, which are now outdated by the development of a system which judges the student only in a moment instantly. This is a huge injustice that has been overcome throughout the rest of Europe. All the rest of Europe chooses the National Dismissal. That is our proposal, our main proposal. This is the basic reform that is currently needed, along with the upgrading of the quality of the services provided at school. So you drive tens of thousands of young people at this hour to become forced customers of private colleges, because you have not at the same time taken care to develop a modern and efficient vocational training system. You make decisions and lead them to nowhere, while you had to pay great attention to vocational training. Instead of discussing how to solve the problem and how to give way and opportunities to all these children, how to give the specialties that the new production model of the country needs, you are setting up a fight and a "fighting" and you are exploiting the dreams of young children. So that's enough. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] There is a need for substantial debate in another tone, at the heart of the problems, not communication and indifferent populism on both sides. It is clear that this policy does not build the necessary consensus and understanding to go ahead with these issues. It is clear that you are also polarising the situation in this area with your choice. So today we have a bill that is another lost opportunity for education. What are you doing with this bill, really, beyond what you told us? You form a suffocating and authoritarian framework of education. You multiply the training staff, but you choose them with complete party control. So, what am I supposed to do about coming and saying that consultants are growing up when you're putting this suffocating party control on them? Where is dignity, objectivity, trust relationship? You go through the focus you already have on over-concentration. It restores the draft law to the collective operation of the school. The collective role of the Teachers' Association, which was a key element of the democratic reform of the PASOK, Law 1566/85, is respected. You actually bring back the model of the 1920 ’ s school. There you go back and forth. The teacher is treated by you as a mere application of administrative orders. Is that really going to work? This very dense and strict control system ultimately reduces the creativity of the teacher, imprisons him of the initiative, while you should encourage her. In the very opposite direction, we should work. Of course, with the proposed composition of school councils the school will not even have the responsibility of its operation and its decisions. The pedagogical reason is subject to the choices of an authoritarian administration. That's what you're doing, Prime Minister. The absence of representatives of teachers from the boards overturns all elements of objectivity, merit and ultimately transparency. Conclusion? Instead of innovation and reform, we have a counter-reformation that creates a party army. You are strengthening bureaucracy and centralism. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that this bill is not a product of effective consultation either with political parties or with their teachers and organisations or with Greek society. It is very characteristic that thirty articles have been added after the end of the public consultation. What consultation, then, is there, what understanding? On the other hand, I would like to reiterate that we are not surprised by the Ministry of Education's insistence on maintaining the disastrous choices made by SYRIZA - ANEL. "Blue" SYRIZA and SYRIZA, i.e. the twin Mitsotakis - Tsipras, has now been tested in practice. They're both in a low expectations, tensions and division society, but that's not how we go ahead. You maintain, Prime Minister, the school of haircuts up to the first and fourth that undermined public education and abolished thousands of posters of teachers and educators. You do not re-establish the full-day school, primary and kindergarten, and of course you do not describe any training systems for teachers, nor do institutions such as regional training centres. You told us that there would be continuing training for teachers as a follow-up to the evaluation. How, with what structures? There aren't any. They've been abolished and you don't reconstitute them. The training you're talking about will stay on paper, it's on paper. It is another debate on communication. There's no point, at least at the moment we're talking. So in the bill, we vote 'no' at first, because we express a completely different view of the quality and orientation of education in modern times. We know that the Ministry of Education is trying for purely communication reasons to disorientate the debate from the substance of the bill with various provisions. For example, it restores our own provisions - such as the mentor's institution for the newly appointed - or provisions that promote a descriptive evaluation of teachers. We will be voting in favour of these articles, despite their incomplete and fragmentary nature, because when we say that we are in favour of evaluation, we mean it and we do so clearly. However, we must stress that for us, as well as evaluating teachers, it means evaluating programmes, structures, managers, and developing an evaluation culture with a view to improving the functioning of school and, of course, applying an internal evaluation system to strengthen the education provided. In short, we regard evaluation as a means of achieving serious, important and high educational objectives every time and going even better, even higher in favour of our students, who have a huge need for it at the moment and all the results of the competitions show that we need to intervene immediately. Evaluation for us is not punishable, it is not a means of control, it is not a means of compliance, and it must of course be accompanied by substantial, real training. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] Ladies and gentlemen, today's government's direct responsibility is to prepare a new school year to protect the health of pupils and teachers, but also to cover learning gaps. I ask, then, how will the schools open? What is the preparation for the autumn with these two goals, health security and learning gaps? We're clear. As a matter of priority, the vaccination of teachers must be completed, but all the workers in education must finally be included. School cleaners cannot be prioritised with teachers. Of course the EGE, as we have been shouting for so many months, will have to do sample checks in schools on its own responsibility. We cannot just rely on the self-test and the individual responsibility of each student and his family. Material is a huge issue for next year. We consider it necessary to reorder, under the responsibility of the Institute of Education Policy, and to provide for a programme of support for teaching so that these learning gaps created do not become a learning deficit for an entire generation. This means that in addition to covering the gaps for which you have predicted and proceeded with recruitment, you need to see specific recruitments, so that there can be a strengthening teaching course and address the problem that has arisen over the past two years, so that no third is added. And, of course, from now on, plan and find rooms, wherever possible, to avoid crowding in classes, because everything shows that the problem will be great in September. We therefore care for all pupils, both excellent and backbone, because a society goes forward when all its citizens have access to learning, knowledge, education, innovation. A society can only go ahead with one third of its citizens. This is our huge difference from all the policies you implement in the field of education, Prime Minister. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] We therefore seek to reach agreement on this. That is why the first issue for us is the re-establishment of the National Education Council, because that is where the views of all the political forces will be judged and compared. The Change Movement we believe education is a national case. This has always been the case with PASOK and has moved on to the major changes and areas, which have resulted from exhaustive dialogue with the parties concerned. That is why they are reforms of democratic, progressive nature, which have endured over time, flagrant reforms in the field of education as well. And we have integrated proposals for the digital public school and for the national dismissal, which is our path to the introduction to the HEIs, for the liberation and upgrading of public universities, as well as for the upgrading of vocational education, finally for the enhancement of public education, aiming, before all, equal opportunities for all young people, for the development of ecological awareness among students, for the development of a system of humanitarian values through the school for a citizen with democratic principles, who will participate in public life, who will have skills to support green development, which is our model of production, with knowledge and innovation for an open society. It's too big a bet to be disciplined. He needs a vision. He needs inspiration. It's too big a case to leave her in the hands of the conservative party. That is why we are claiming a leading role in the Change Movement, in order to do the new change in education as well. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u46	It is now up to the Prime Minister and President of the New Democracy Parliamentary Group to answer for a second time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u47	First of all, I am pleased, ladies and gentlemen, that the debate was essentially limited to the issues of education. Indeed, Mr Tsipras, don't worry. We will have a long time to discuss the other issues, which have to do with the wider public debate and the quality of public speech. We'll talk about this in another chance. Allow me to make just one introductory statement - in response to what Mrs Gennamas said about the issues of pandemic. Madam Gennamas, when we are struggling to convince fellow citizens that they must be vaccinated, we do not divide the citizens. We are using the right reason and scientific knowledge to argue firmly, because vaccination is the only answer for us to be able to finish with the pandemic nightmare. Is that a battling policy? Explain exactly how you understand the division in a government, which does nothing less and nothing less than what all the governments of the world are trying to do. Because vaccination, as you well know, is not a Greek phenomenon, it is a global phenomenon. We have fellow citizens who can ideologically be classified as the ideological category of the negatists at the outset. It is very difficult to convince them to take the step and be vaccinated. We also have many other fellow citizens, however, who may still for reasons, who to some extent understand, hesitate, fear, think that the problem might be solved before they are forced to make a decision that they obviously consider difficult for themselves. We are doing a great deal of work, therefore, using all the means at our disposal, to convince the citizens, having all the data at our disposal, with the most important argument that today the fourth wave is a fourth wave, which is almost exclusively - not only - of the inconveniences. And what more powerful argument than seeing the data on hospitalization, intensive and deaths in recent months? That is why I am even calling again today on our fellow citizens who have not yet made the decision to rush and be vaccinated, in order to protect above and beyond all themselves. The delta mutation is highly contagious. The possibility of a coronary sticking into a coronary being seriously afflicted and likely to risk his life, if uninvasive, is multiple than the fact that this happens to a fellow citizen who is vaccinated. So the argument in favour of the common good, in favour of social responsibility, that the relevant articles of the Constitution should in no way constitute a divisional policy, and it would indeed be a good thing if in this area we had very clear positions from all parties, instead of trying to stumble in the blundering waters of confusion, by closing the eye on those who might still be concerned and have not made the final decision. I am sorry, Mr Tsipras, because you have backed up the issue of compulsory vaccination for health workers and workers in the elderly care units. I realized from your initial position that you would support this initiative, as the Change Movement clearly and without asterisks did. But being able to introduce this concept of compulsory optionality into the public debate really innovate, but you know, when you step on two boats, you end up not enjoying it. When you want to like everyone, the possibility is that you don't really like anyone, and I'm afraid you didn't treat this topic with the responsibility of you. I now come to the issues on the agenda and the issues of education. First of all, I would just like to inform you, Mr Tsipras, why you may not know that I have given full-scale examinations, because when I finished school, the full-scale examinations were necessary in order to measure their degree to the degree of dismissal. So I may not have been interested in going to a Greek university, but I was interested in going well, because I never wanted to graduate with a degree lower than my performance until then at school. I think that all of us who live in Greek reality, regardless of where we choose to study our children, have a very good sense of enormous effort, of effort, of stress, of anxiety that the system of pan-Hellenic examinations involves for their children and their families, a system that can have some weaknesses that need improvement, but that remains a system that is deeply objective and, in itself, deeply worthwhile, because it certainly rewards those who have worked most. In a competitive process an accident can always happen and not go to a university should in no way be considered as a loss of life. However, I still believe that the advantages of this system in relation to other import systems are more than the disadvantages and surely enable children of lower income classes to compete on equal terms and claim a place in the public university through an objective, pragmatic process. As long as one takes a look at it - I always do because it is very interesting - to the profile and social profile of the successful ones, these masters, who gathered most of the molecules and entered schools of their choice, in order to establish the broad social stratification and geographical stratification. This means that entry into the public university is not identified with specific economic characteristics. And that actually means that the system of pan-Hellenic examinations works as a social strap that promotes social mobility. From there on, the debate on the minimum import base is a good thing today. It is good that it is done first because we have been given a chance to talk more openly about how we understand public education as a whole since high school, but also about perhaps tearing down some myths, some stereotypes that have been cultivated in Greek society for decades and I do not think that they have helped us progress as a country as a whole. First of all, I must tell you that our decision to impose the minimum import base is not a popular decision. It's not a popular decision, it's a difficult decision. It is a decision which has - and we recognise - a political cost. It is an unpleasant decision, a decision that upsets the waters of education, because it actually means reducing the number of children entering university schools. But it is a decision which, in our view, is necessary, not only because it was part of our election programme. Let me remind you that everything we do in higher education, Mrs. Gennimata, Mr. Tsipras, was part of our election programme. We have done multiple seminars on education, I have often talked about the issue of the minimum import base and about the way we understand the public school and the need to give more freedom to teachers, to broaden the subject of schools' knowledge, to introduce the concept of evaluation. None of this should be foreign to you. The New Democracy is entirely consistent with what it has committed itself to doing and we have committed ourselves to imposing the minimum import base and we have done so in a much more correct way than the one it had used in the past, when a minimum basis of '10' had been established and by giving the universities themselves, within the framework of the self-employed, the opportunity to define themselves, within a range, the level of the import base, judging what the cognitive objects would somehow like to reward. You said, Mr Tsipras, that we are about on the European Union's average for university graduates and students. It's wrong. Well, these are the graduates' percentages on students in Europe in 2018 based on EUROSTAT data. We're last, last! - So last and we are also first after Turkey - we are first after Turkey! - the number of students. In other words, in relation to the rest of Europe, much more students in universities, of which they are much less graduated. And the question we need to answer is whether this is good for society and if it is ultimately good for students, how useful it is to get a student into a school that is not a school of preference with a very low degree, just to claim that he is studying, possibly to satisfy some social and family stereotypes that "the child" - in introductory forms - "go to the university" and to drive these children consciously by cross-party agreement, just to say that they have gone to colleges for which they are neither interested - I will then come to the special case to which you referred - and have very little chance of graduating. At the same time, look at the labour market today! Today look at the labour market! What do we see with unemployment of 15%? I will say this again: a huge disharmony between supply, namely the graduates of the Greek universities and those who claim a place in the labour market and demand, what the labour market is asking for today. These are not harmonized. Other things our children are studying, other degrees get other skills and knowledge asked for by the labour market. So we have two choices, or we close our eyes completely from reality, to continue with the same logic of having a very high number of admissions to our universities, to completely neglect technical education and to claim and pretend that everything is fine. No, I don't have a quiet conscience, Mr. Tsipras, with this politics. Do I not have a quiet conscience with this perspective, to guide children into departments that do not care about them, from which they will probably not graduate, to reach twenty-four, twenty-five years old and have done what they have done in their lives? See what's going on in Germany. Germany has a much smaller number of students at higher education institutions in its universities. She has excellent universities, she has a much smaller number of students. At the same time, it has an excellent system of technical education, an excellent system of technical education, with many apprenticeships, in cooperation with the private sector, and has succeeded and solved the link of employment through this double path. That is what we are trying to do in Greece. It will not happen from one moment to the next. And when you come and say, you and Mrs Gennimata, that we are sponsors, that our aim is to support colleges, but, finally, you become what you are saying, the best sponsor of colleges, because you forget that there are public IEKs, which today are one - it can be improved, of course - a mechanism for post-training and training that we have in our country. So why say to children today that they have to go to private college and don't you tell them to go to a public IEK? And when you see the elements of the graduates of the public IEK, they find a easier job than half the university schools. He may not have the authority of the public IKK who has the university. So let us make a great effort together - and I think that is what pandemic as a whole is helping us to rebuild the dignity of work, regardless of the standard standards accompanying it. You have chosen many times to iron out the comment I made in an election. You completely distorted the meaning of my location. Equally dignified is any work in our country today, regardless of whether he who does it has a doctorate or has no degree. So the dignity of the work linked to technical education must be established in our country not just as acceptable, but as desirable, and here we compete stereotypes that come back decades ago. We do not, however, help to break these stereotypes by promising today with great comfort that we will open up new computers and anyone who did not enter the university will enter the year, completely impracticable policies, which simply close the eye on some children who may have been disappointed because they did not pass to a university. So that's the reality. We have an answer. So how do you respond? In these statistics you, with what you say, how do you respond? How do you answer? A higher number of students, a lower number of graduates, greater unemployment, that is the reality. So you have to give an answer. We are giving this answer. Tough answer, I repeat, we will have a political cost from this option. I have no doubts, because when you're invited to change stereotypes, you'll probably have to clash with situations. I take it courageously, because I know we're doing the right thing for the next generation! [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] And tell me, Mr. Tsipras, you mentioned in such a derogatory way in colleges - in any case, colleges are a mechanism, did you say not put a base in colleges, but colleges are not recognized universities on the basis of the Constitution to put them on the basis - you, who are speaking so deceptively about colleges, to ask Mr. Friends, who is next to you, why when you made educational invitations, Mr. Phil, and I have here with your own broad signature, you were also getting a college graduate? Huh? Why?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u48	I've answered.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u49	Why, if colleges are so bad? So stop this hypocrisy! I'm filing them in the Minutes for your Chief to see them, because you probably hadn't given him enough notice of all this. [[At this point the President of the Government, Mr Kyriakos Mitsotakis, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] And tell me if it was, Mr. Tsipras, good politics. Were you coming with last-minute parliamentary amendments and recommending parts to any Member who wanted to do the favor in his local society and tell us that this is the right policy? Hey, Mr. Philly? How about you? You, a man who has other opinions, do you agree with this policy? There is a parliamentary amendment - and there is no one, there have been a third, if I remember correctly - that all parts are at the moment whose function has been suspended and that has a political cost to the government, but it is the right thing to do. Their function has been suspended. Do you agree, Mr. Friend, with her? Mr. Tsipras, what do you say now, afterward, that you see things from a distance that you have left? To put together last-minute parliamentary amendments, to set up sections without any study, just to close the eye in a local society, to a local parliamentarian, if not to open up any more cafeterias to meet the needs of the children, is this the development that you see, with an emphasis on knowledge, innovation and extroversion? That sort of policy we want? That's the kind of university we want? I now come to the really interesting and dare to say a touching letter from the student, which you have read. I don't remember her first name.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u50	Helen.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u51	Helen, who wanted to enter the Translation Department at the Ionian University. We actually had a few such cases of children, and we had similar issues in Architecture, which children wrote well, but they didn't catch the minimum basis for introducing into the special course that the university had set as a priority lesson. There were cases - I know of such cases - children who, for example, did not catch '14', they wrote just under '14'. First of all, I would like to say this because another case of this kind has taken sufficient publicity: and these children will be introduced into architectural schools, just not in their first priority school, because the university itself has chosen, because it considers the project to be a particularly important lesson in order for an architect to study, to lay the basis for '14'. Some wrote better than these kids, so they could get into these schools, like you when you joined the Metsovio Polytechnic as a political engineer, some didn't get in, because they obviously wrote worse than you. That is the logic of the examinations. It's a competitive system, rewards those who write better. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] The rules are well known in advance, and if there are such specific cases - which are very few - of some distortion, which we could not have anticipated, we are here to see whether these can be corrected in the future. But they do not cancel our overall policy on the minimum import base. I, too, ask you directly, and I would like you to answer, because you have referred to some very specific examples, but in no case should the specialist overshadow the general: Do you agree, yes or no, that someone who writes under '5' should enter the public university? I would like a 'yes' or a 'no' for these cases. You referred to special cases. And let me tell you something else. When you write '3', that in my mind is a contempt for the whole process, because you come and say, 'I don't really care what to write, because I know very well that there are parts that have no interest, so I will enter with any degree'. That's what happened. You're going in with whatever grade. Yeah. But what is the result of this process? And after all - under the script, we must not forget that public education is financed by the fault of the Greek taxpayer and as the student has rights, so must also have some obligations. There are no free things in life that do not result in the remuneration of a public service. So I would like you to speak, speak and say clearly, Mr Phile, Mr Tsipras, if you agree with the very many cases - because that is what we are talking about, that is the majority of students who have stayed outside the universities - students who wrote '3', '4' and '5' and on the former regime, have entered the public universities. Our view is clear. Beyond the fact that we are driving children, as I have said, into departments which neither interest nor are they the ones from which they will graduate, for me in particular, the very low degrees are a contempt for the very competitive process. I dare say it's a lack of respect for the effort of all the others. And yes, the very concept of examination involves the hierarchy of grades. We start with the first one and we end up at the bottom, the last one that gets in the line. This is how competitive examination systems work. And because we live in a tough world, very competitive - not only in Greece, everywhere -, by blocking the eye to children in general, in a reasonable de minimis effort I don't think we do them good, without that means we don't recognize the specificity of young people and the need to be able to live a full and full life away from their enthusiasm, with all the social life on which youth has always been appealed. From there, and beyond all this effort that you are making consciously to say how far we are from young people and how much you are identified with youth, I repeat that I prefer to be useful and intervene whose results we will not see now, we will see them in time - it may not even be possible for this government to see the results of this policy - but that is what is right and what is required. In this policy, we will continue to insist systematically. Consistent with our election programme, we are implementing a bold policy for the education of the 21st century. Finally, I cannot comment on this fact, Mr Tsipras: Mrs Gennamas mentioned at least aspects of the bill. I realised that it was particularly disturbed by some changes that we have made, reducing the representation of traditional trade unionists in the administrative organs, but it does not seem to me that this criticism comes from your own political area. Besides, your space has made careers supporting trade unionists, not always with the best result for public administration as a whole. But you, Mr Tsipras, did not say a single word about the bill. Not a word. So I conclude by asking you some very simple questions: Do you agree or not with the concept of evaluation? Yes or no, please, and then go and see how we do the evaluation. Do you agree or not with the widening of the cognitive object of the schools beyond the hard limit of the timetable? And, finally, do you agree, yes or no, by giving more autonomy to schools, more freedom to teachers? Do you agree, yes or no, with the abolition of the unique writing? It's just all that. You can say a "yes" or a "no" and then clearly argue. But when you come to the House about a bill, you will be talking about this bill, Mr. Tsipras. We have a chance to have other discussions. I will be very interested to look forward to the answers you will give to the questions I have put to you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u52	The Chief of Officerial Representation and Chairman of the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group Mr Alexis Tsipras is called at the Stepma for his own denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u53	I hope I will not get far, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u54	I hope so, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u55	I think it's sunshine more obvious that here there are two vertical different concepts about the educational process. Before I give Mr Mitsotakis some answers, at least to restore to what we disagree and what the elements we present in the public debate are. Mr Mitsotakis reiterated a number of arguments he has put forward in the public debate and the Minister for Education Mr. Kerameos, who do not have any arguments in this regard. He once again brought a table showing that our country is with the lowest percentage of graduates in relation to the people who enter the European Union. However, these figures relate to all students enrolled in public higher education institutions in the country since 1980. On the contrary, Mr Mitsotakis, I will present to you some more recent information today, which I hope you will not be easy to question, because they have the stamp of the Bank of Greece and Mr Stournara, which I imagine you appreciate, because you have renewed your term of office. The Bank of Greece, therefore, presents a report in 2019 - and I will present it in the Minutes - with the percentage of those who do not complete their studies in the country and also with a diagram, saying that it is encouraging to reduce this percentage of young people between the ages of 18 and 24 who do not complete their studies. It has fallen from 14.2% in 2009 to just 4.7% in 2018, when in the European Union of twenty-eight this is at 10.6% - these are elements of the Bank of Greece - for young people, I repeat, eighteen to twenty-four years old. So you come here with the smuggling of some people from 1980 onwards - today may be forty, sixty, sixty years - either for various reasons, in their lives or in their lives, have left the university. You come and you sum up them up, to make an argument out of your belly, when - I repeat and hope you do not question the evidence I am quoting, it is official evidence of the Bank of Greece - the figures say that we have been over the last two years, fortunately, better than the average of the European Union at the ages we are interested in, eighteen to twenty-four years. I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point the President of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexis Tsipras presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] As I would also like to present to the public debate, in the debate we are having, and what is the direction that is being taken today in the European Union, because you said that you believe that a young man has no point in getting into a school if he has not written well. Your argument was doubted that it did not end the university, that it did not take the degree, but you claimed it was a gift free to obtain a degree which might not be of the same value in the labour market with a degree in a school anticipated, possibly even more substantial educational process, in the major schools in our country, at the National Technical University, the Kapodistrian University, the Aristotelian University. It's not like that. In any case, I would like to present you here this morning, again, with comparisons of rates, at least to know what we disagree. At the age of twenty-five to thirty-four years 43.7% of this population in our country are university graduates compared with 40.1% of the average in Europe. In Greece it is 43.7%, in Europe it is 40.1%, average. Is that such a big difference? In any case, I do not think it is a problem, a disadvantage. I consider it an advantage that our country has young people or, in any case, at the critical age of twenty-five to thirty-four years, young people who are trained, knowledge, studies, university qualifications. Our country's human capital is a competitive advantage. Young people with knowledge are a competitive advantage and we need to use this advantage. The problem is that they are leaving by thousands abroad, with the economic crisis, with the memoranda of policies that have been imposed in recent years. That is the problem, that they manage the production machine, the production structure of other states, and not ours, while we have trained them in our own public universities. It is not the problem that we train them, but it is not the problem that they acquire knowledge, it is not the particularity of the Greek family, of every Greek family who has knowledge and wants her children to study. Yes, I know that it is not the same thing that happened in the 1970s and the 1980s or even the 1980s, that this social mobility existed, and indeed anyone knew, every Greek family, that if the child is studying doctor, lawyer or engineer, there would automatically be a redistribution, one would say, a mobility, that is, changing the social stratification of the child and the family. And that's how it happened. That's how it happened in the '60s and '70s. The parents of most of us were farmers’ children, stockfarmers, and they studied. Or many of those in this Chamber who were children of farmers, farmers, in any case workers, have studied with their merits, have changed social environment. The social mobility that you have said. But today the seasons have really changed. We're not at this time because today it doesn't guarantee you a different income and a level of life to make a university school. But it ensures you a very important supply and value at every time for every new man, which is knowledge. We believe in the autism of knowledge. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] So we are struggling - and that is our difference - not children from university schools being cut into children, but with substantial studies being provided to these children and the last educational institution, at the last university school, to be effective in studying these children. That's why we're talking about hiring teachers. If you find - I don't have them in hand, but it's important to have this conversation honestly - the comparison - I told you before - of the ratio between the teachers per student in the Greek universities with the one in the European universities, you will see where the great "handicap" is, not the number of students. And here I would like to mention what the Commission has proposed. He proposed by 2030 that this percentage of the population of twenty-five to thirty-four years with university degrees should go up to at least 50%. It is 43.7% in Greece, 40% average in the European Union. The Commission proposes to go up to 50%. The European Council decided in the first phase to raise this figure to 45%. Why? And you're telling us the opposite. Yes, of course IEKs, of course, and technological training. No objections. We are the ones who, after all, have enabled them to receive a high level of education from the public IEC, but when the European Union moves in the opposite direction and you in an elitist perception, there is a matter here somewhere. Check it out. It is ideological obsession, is it your concern - I repeat - not for the public but for the private IEK, which we are not sponsors, are you sponsors? Europe wants more and more citizens with university supplies, because it wants a high level of technology that meets the challenges of the fourth industrial revolution and climate change. That is what Europe is proposing and setting out as objectives. And here you come, with a argument obsolete, with arguments that do not stand, have no basis, do exactly the opposite. In any case, Mr Mitsotakis, the New Democracy has had that view before. On Mrs Giannakou, if I am not mistaken, Minister, she has legislated on the basis of '10'. Look at the difference. Here you legislated a grid of devices that puts secret cutters and we have many such cases like Eleni, which I read to you today and you did not answer, like Dionysus, which I read last week and I did not get an answer, except for lying and subjugating, snobbing the "excellent" Minister that "you are not capable of going through and last year will be cut". It's not true, and the lie has short feet. Nor, of course, is it true that SYRIZA is the one who disagrees why he is plundering. The ‘10’ basis was applied. And it was implemented, I repeat, without the hidden provisions, which did not then cut so many people who are cutting today and which creates this unacceptable situation of even excellent students from their choice school. So when the government of George Papandreou came back then, your dear and dear to all of us - but you like her more than we do, because you agree with her, we have openly disagreed with her - Mrs Diamantopoulou as Minister of Education with the basis of '10'. Do you know what he said to the Ministerial Council on 13 April 2010? You have proposed it to take a very important place in the OECD and you say that you agree with it. You know what he said? Four years after the implementation of the '10' base, there is no indication of any study showing that the '10' basis has achieved a minimum rise in the quality of study in high school or higher institutions. Mrs Diamantopoulou. So we're not here ideologically. You are absolutely ideological and obsessed. You are a minority of the minority you insist on. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] You say we here are plundering. We have a responsibility to raise the problems and to demand that injustice be restored. We tell you 'do it.' Don't you do it? We have a responsibility to the citizens to say that, as far as we are concerned, we will restore this injustice. It's not populism. You probably won't have a very big picture of what was happening in the past. When I took all the tests, you could keep the score from one to four for next year. We propose something like this, of course, in excess of the number of importers next year, to be implemented to restore this injustice, since we of course have a responsibility. That is what we promise, that is what we commit. We tell you 'do it.' And one final comment, Mr. Mitsotakis. The regulations introduced today by the government - because you said that I did not talk about the bill, but I think it was much more important that the issues that we raised and opposed were to be prioritised - are exactly what the SYRIZA government asked the troika from 2015 to 2018 when we came out of the memorandums. That's right. You have now accused Mr. Friends that he is supposed to be the one with underground connections to the congressmen. Be serious. Here, put forward arguments that stand. The troika then imposed - yes, indeed - to implement the Arvanitopoulos commitment and once the troika left the country, because some have managed to get the country out of the memoranda, this particular article has been restored by our own government. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] But you, despite getting out of the memoranda, bring all the memoranda choices, because you are in a similar ideological and political attitude to those who have imposed us, with many of the things that have imposed us, not everything, but as far as education is concerned, are exactly the same. What did they say? Individual education evaluation, manager's increased powers, autonomy of the school. What did we do? We have succeeded after a difficult negotiation process and strategy - it was not easy - to submit and, in many cases, to impose our own agenda, not only for appointments, which you want to get the glory today, but in any case the world knows what the people, the Greek people who succeeded and one by one, which, if it was not now and it was one by five, you could not speak of appointments at all, but who have announced and now completed appointments to special treatment and those you have said today. So not only for appointments, but also for the non-implementation of the punishing individual assessment. We wanted and wanted evaluation as a concept, but through the strengthening of collectiveism, the introduction of two-year pre-school education, which the New Democracy had voted against, and many other regulations. And, of course, another issue that had to be resolved in the context of negotiations with the troika was this thorn of individual evaluation. You know that there is a very negative climate for teachers too. But there is also a great effort you are constantly making to say that the Left is contrary to the concept of evaluation. That's not true. We as government have proceeded to specific arrangements, in an effort to create a culture of appreciation for the education project provided at school, not in terms of demonstration, as evaluation is not like callous, but in terms of highlighting the dynamics of reasoning, the teachers' associations, in cooperation with educational structures in support of educational work, not overriding individual evaluation, but a collective evaluation culture. You come here today and you all do away with it. You come and dismantle regional educational planning centres. Why are you doing this? In any case, if you are in favour of evaluation, because you do not first evaluate what these centres have done, what work has paradoxed, what has been done all this time. But because your goal is not to upgrade the education process provided, but to evaluate individual and punishing. Because it is not just the question of being assessed, but how and who will assess it. With all this, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to reiterate the radical disagreement we have with your logic of education. They are indeed two different worlds and each understands that. But I think that today it has been understood that one world is the progressive democratic world, which wants collective procedures, and wants to promote every child who has the potential regardless of his or her economic power, the power of his or her parents, and actually wants to invest in education at school and at university. The other side - yes, I will say - has an elitist perception. It is elitism to believe that in the era of the fourth industrial revolution you must cut off the possibility of children studying, because in this way you will allegedly create a better quality of study provided. Better quality of courses and knowledge provided will be created with a quality upgrade plan for both schools and universities, with an increase in the budget for education, an increase in funding for school and university, recruitment to teachers and universities. So we will make the university and school the democratic and progressive for the next day of the country, not with exclusion, not with cuts, not with an elitist perception, which turns us back many years.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u56	The President of the Change Movement, Mrs. Fofi Gennimata, will speak from her position on her own dentology right now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u57	Thank you, Mr President. Prime Minister, you have been too late on the issue of vaccination. We told you from the outset that the system was well organized for those who wanted to be vaccinated. You presented evidence that led Greek society to a reassurance. You know, there are too many of those who said: ‘As soon as vaccination goes well, why should I be vaccinated too? We will finally achieve immunity and so let's wait a while to see how things go and we'll see later." We said it too many months ago that you had to care, that you had to give weight to the information, that you had to have mobile workshops to reach remote areas, in constituencies, in older people who could not reach the vaccination centres. You ignore all this. When the knot got to the comb, what did you do? You put your executives in and smack - even you yourself - the vaccine-negatives, whose conspiracy conspiracies exist in Greece with those who are really troubled and looking for concrete answers and serious information. Instead of beating yourself in this second category and making focus and a special information campaign for all of them, you choose to divide Greek society into two. And your officials go out, one Minister goes out - I don't want to say names - and he's threatening the next day another Minister comes out and denounces the one who's threatening to say other things. They've heard the millions of them. I also said in my protology that there is a real alalum. So stop separating the Greeks and engage in a serious information campaign for those who are really concerned about it, for those who are seeking answers. Because we have a great deal of invasive proportions in ages that are dangerous. And now don't look at where it's summer and young people are away from their families and the phenomenon has been limited to younger people. Think about what happens when they get in touch. So you must run, even now, to prevent, with an organised plan, with mobile units, but also essential, targeted information. You did not answer me on any point of criticism I made in the bill. You did not even answer me about how schools will open in the autumn and I would like to draw your attention to you, because our country did not participate in an OECD survey, obviously because we do not have data and data on what happened all this time of the school pandemic. I will give you concrete examples, if you like, with schools in mountainous areas, which you have closed, because you have booked schools across the country, while they had no access to the internet and, at the same time, they had rooms and could be lessons without agglomeration in the ranks. There was no plan, there was no attempt to keep the schools open. We don't have any evidence of what happened. We are doing our own research and in September we will also present the evidence of what happened. I now come to the issues of the bill. You blame us in a way I would say that you don't even need an answer for supposedly defending guilds. Listen, Prime Minister, in this country, the major reforms in the field of education have been carried out since the PASOK and in the 1980s and 1990s and in 2010, in the context of the crisis, with a law that we managed to get a lot of understanding and consensus and to be voted on by a very large majority in Parliament. It was a law that you yourself began to break down. So I don't think they fit in us with that kind of criticism. They fall into the void and show - if you want - and a personal empathy and party empathy in PASOK, which at last, cool! Mercy! It's not PASOK's fault! And I think that now that you have all ruled, Greek society can judge, compare and draw its conclusions on the major areas and reforms that we have done in this place. [[Applause from the Wing of Change Movement]] On the contrary, Prime Minister, I would like to tell you that you will always be followed by the mark of your anti-democratic choice not to have representatives of teachers on the service councils. This is what shows your desire and effort to party to education, to check everything and, finally, your goal and through this draft law is control, authoritarianism and compliance and not to turn a page and open horizons for the new generation of our country. I would really like you to answer: How many places can public IEKs give me? How many of the thirty thousand from higher education can they teach in public IEK? I wish they were in better shape and I wish they could absorb much more or most of them! In fact, however, what you do is you show thirty thousand young children and their families the way to private colleges. In conclusion, I would like to tell you that for me personally in politics what has a social benefit does not ultimately have a political cost. What, though, is the social benefit, when you choose within the pandemic to make rough and fragmentary arrangements and not serious, documented, integrated reforms after exhaustive dialogue with all interested parties and parties, to open up a new path to education? What are, ultimately, the benefits for Greek society from this fragmentary arrangement? You have created injustices and you have an obligation to solve them immediately, Prime Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u58	We closed down with the political leaders' speeches today. It's Mrs. Olympia Tylorid's turn.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u59	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the pleasure and pride shown by the New Democracy MPs for the exclusion of thousands of students from higher education reveals in the clearest way the ideology, perception and faith you have in social inequality, which this government is expanding with a bill, loyal to the Prime Minister's saying about the normal state of social inequality, a situation that you think gives the right to you as a superior to the Prime Minister even not to explain his "substantially". Therefore, the Commission concludes that the measures in question constituted State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty and that they constitute State aid within the meaning of Article 107(1) of the Treaty. [[At this point, the F Vice-President of Parliament, Mr GEORGIOS LAMPROYLIS, takes over the office of President.]] You come here to say that you want social development for the Greek people. How do you manage that? With the bankruptcy bill, which you get the property of the people's layers found in a bad economic crisis, with the Labour Bill, where the eight-hour breaks, or do you think social growth will come with half the euro on the day when you raise the minimum wage? Is the social development that you say you want on the special import basis, which leaves thousands of young people apart from the universities, or the "special pocket" of those who can pay colleges? If you really believe that your policy leads to social development, you are confused. Social mobility is the process by which one person can move from one social stratification to another, of course, it is sufficient that the system of the society in question and the policy pursued by the individual authority can also, to a large extent, be carried out through education. Obviously, it's something that didn't bother you. And you didn't care, because you don't know the effort and anguish of young children and their families. And you don't know why you don't have experiential experience. You guys had no problem giving all-Greek examinations, Minister, to go to law school. I don't know if you deceived the Greek university or if you really wanted to go directly abroad, or if you went through it, but it is certain that you have not experienced a corresponding stress on your future, because that was predetermined and there was no reason, because of your economic and social situation, to find yourself in a similar agony with thousands of young people and young people in the popular strata. This is not a personal attack. I do not just raise it to say something about the Minister. I'm just doing this to think about. You are a Minister of Education and you are a model for our young people. What lesson do you teach these children with this policy, the policy that blames them, which deprives them of the dream? Cyannamics, authoritarianly and horrificly you say to them "do not dream". It's like you hate unprivileged young people, those who are not from high social and economic strata. Today you do not apply a policy on education. You are implementing an elitist social policy, and even in the midst of a pandemic, in a difficult educational year, which you initially lowered the regional universities. In Kastoria, for example, you booked the Preschool Age Relief Department. Since at first you were pretending to be a parole, even the Prime Minister, a moment ago, from this Step, he renounced this department. He underestimated it, as did the remaining thirty-six, and said: “What did you want? You were making them with amendments to be made to each village of Sufflaziko.’ And that's what you're saying, you're supposed to be interested in upgrading and developing this place through education. Honestly, hours - the way you speak to us goes beyond us. Then you reserved for the children of the pandemic for social inequality, against every dimension of social mobility. With the minimum basis for introduction, with the minimum basis for each specific course, which was not taught in schools, with the coefficients of gravity, with the provision for the next year in double computerized form you put barriers to higher education, and these barriers do not leave only 'bads' out of you, students, but also many excellences. Because you don't care about excellence. For you there is the excellence of the pocket, because anyway the children who have the financial capacity will study in private colleges without examinations, without criteria, with fewer lessons, with fewer teaching hours, but with an equal degree. Your policy can no longer hide or mislead. Today's bill neither upgrades nor strengthens our teachers. You establish strict hierarchical administrative structures, you select clearly separating policies for neglected and socially degraded schools, where there will be insufficient opportunities and opportunities. There are many issues. I will only say for a minute that there is one issue and unclearness in relation to the teaching experience of those who serve in environmental education centres, where it is the only case in the law where the teaching service is considered, but it is not limited. Just one word about the recruitments you're on. You do them two years later. However, there is no coherent design, with a typical example of the German language teachers' reaction, where only fifty three were allocated, while last year at primary and secondary level they worked six hundred and twenty-six people. In conclusion, I would like to say that education is indeed one of the key areas for the development of young people. So I think that this bill is a bill that runs counter to the education of the people's classes, because it sees education as a privilege and not as a right. And that's because the inspirations of the bill don't want the educational elevation, because then it'll turn out to be the cheapness of the riches, the glory and the inspirations of those who inspired it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u60	Please, my colleague, get it done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u61	I shall conclude, Mr President, and thank you for your tolerance. Finally, I would like to say that soon youth will give you the answer, because social mobility, apart from the rise, is also the path that you will soon experience.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u62	Next speaker, Maria Konnaka, from the Communist Party of Greece. Then will Mrs. Skondra Silina, Mr. Vardakis, Mrs. Gara and Mrs. Kefala. Mrs Konnakka, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u63	Thank you, Mr President. "With the sun, I take it off, I put it in the sun. What have the ballasts and they die?’ This proverb reminds us of the argument which the government is reproducing through the mouth of the Minister in order to justify the exclusion of thousands of students from access to the university, which, on the minimum basis of importing them in the face of the door, depriving them even of the hope of supplementing the computer, with such cynicism that they can begin with the tortured figurine of the pandemic, the testimony of televised education, open it up - shut down by the schools. Repeat, supposedly innocent: “Is it possible to enter the university with scores of “2” and “3”?”. But you do not answer whose work these students are, whose work is a school where they continuously disintegrate integrated knowledge, replacing it with fragmentary information and skills, a single-sided school geared to the arena of the pan-Hellenic exams. Such a school forms measures such as that of the themes bank, which you brought back by the previous law from the First High School, a school-training school, who runs after covering the material, leaving back children unable to follow these rhythms, children who are either discouraged from continuing the educational process, as much as the gaps they gather, or even if they manage to monitor the rhythms are forced even more strongly to patriate and not substantially assimilate knowledge. That is why it is a major anti-educational measure. And obviously this also has a social sign. Because the first children to leave behind are those who are unable to take care of care, or their school has had a problem with shortages in teachers. In any case, they are children starting from another starting point of view of education. Of course, this anti-educational experiment did not come up first with the New Democracy. As a government, SYRIZA may have had to withdraw it, under the pressure of mobilization, but it does not stop defending it, as the former Minister Gavroglou admits in his recent book. In fact, there is another interesting admission, which the former Minister has summarized in his own self-criticism, that if something were wrong it is that we did not involve the universities in determining the student's profile. What else, really, could determine the student's profile, if not similar inspiration, with the minimum import base, gentlemen of SYRIZA? For which SYRIZA is now preparing rebellious, expanding their list of laws to be abolished for his next attack on the government's sky. On this stranded ground the New Democracy is currently stepping on to further the categorisation of schools, to form a school increasingly classic. And if under the burden of the outcry withdrew the provision for separation of sections depending on the level of students, it brings their separation to different speeds and categories on another path. By introducing the multiple book you are essentially responsible for categorizing schools and departments. There the choice of the book will be guided, so that it can respond to the specific level of students, which you consider to be well-established, culminating in the least uniform educational elements provided by the school book at least. Truly, the schools of the people's neighborhoods, the night schools in which students work all day long, on what level of difficulty will they rank? Probably not in the highest difficulty, on which the issues of the pan-Hellenics will be based. Is it or is it not another step towards class separation of public education, when on the one hand children will be pushed to the first classrooms, which will be edited and covered with the material of the most demanding books, and the rest will fall into the pan-Hellenic arena, starting from the beginning with a shortage of supplies? In fact, after the successful recipe of converting the students ’ homes into schoolrooms with telephony, you are now instructing them to teach their own lessons at home, eventually turning the parent into a teacher, of course, into a teacher. That is why she is not irrelevant to the pocket and social position of their parents and the quality of students. Or is this not going to be more intense with the infamous autonomy of schools, in whose name you all drink water. When the funding, therefore, of the schools will depend on the ability of each school unit to approach donors - which will, of course, also have a decisive role to play in the content of education, while giving governments a useful alibi to the continuing cuts in funding from the state budget - it will now depend on their advisability to market buildings and school infrastructures, those that are otherwise missing from many schools, as if they were stores for any business or other activity. We ask ourselves: should they cover their operating costs from this use of their infrastructure and schools, such as the Lesbos earthquakes, which remain in the containers five years after the catastrophic earthquake? Instead of reiterating gladly that it is the graduates and not the students who enter the university, consider first how it prepares, what educational facilities it gives children the school that shapes these options, if they are the same and sufficient for everyone, regardless of their class origin. Could you really tell us how you help students to complete their studies? And we are not talking about the two years of the pandemic, where the universities remained the safest place to comply with the social distance measures: zero students in schools, many kilometres away from them, but also from university writings. How do you help a child from a people's family to remain on and complete his studies, with literally no student care, when one in ten students find bed in a café, where these are there, while the rents are on fire, and when from the Ministry's data it appears that over ten thousand requests for relocations submitted with more than five-and-a-half thousand have finally managed to get it, faced with a thousand other obstacles then, when these children are a one-way street to work several times exhaustively, along with their studies, and your only concern is how will you show them the door of exit? And if you are in the end interested in graduates, if you really want to enter their selection schools and those who do not have the alternative to study abroad or pay private colleges and IEK - for which, of course, you do not mind the level of ratings and the white colleges of students, after you have first made sure that they have an equal degree with that of the IEIs - give them the right to reserve a course rating for the next few years, without starting at the beginning the costful Marathon of the courses for all the courses...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u64	Finish, Ms. Konnakka.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u65	I shall conclude, Mr President. ........................................................................................................................................................................................................... This will be a minimal contribution to prevent students from being trapped in dead-end paths, Minister. Upgrade, therefore, is not the excavation of students. Modern is not a school that separates children when there are scientific findings, technological development of this kind, which should and can be made accessible to everyone. Modern is the school that allows all children to come in contact with the wealth of human culture and on this basis to unfold their talents, which gives it all to everyone and not a little to some. This school responds to children's dreams and their needs. That's why this school will keep fighting the JRC. Thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u66	Mrs Silver Skondra has the floor from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u67	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, following public debate by our fellow citizens, as it has been developed these days, particularly at the meetings of the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, it is certain that they have felt frustration and indignation. As far as education is concerned, it is a serious, substantial and national one, because it refers to the future of young people, therefore to the future of our country. They would therefore expect a debate similar to seriousness, prestige and level. Instead of focusing on the spirit and the arrangements of the bill, which aims to create a better and modern school for children and teachers, in response to the needs of the future and the world that is changing rapidly, rather than applauding decentralisation and enhanced responsibilities for teachers, instead of having a fruitful exchange of views, the debate has been offended, with the sole responsibility of the rapporteur for Officerial Response, Mr. Phile. He was carried out in personal attacks, insults, and, with his finger swinging to the Minister, he spoke of popular anger and of the massacre of candidates in higher education. He told us that the only supporters of the bill are the schools of our private schools, because the Mitsotakis Government has targeted public education and legislated against it. He said that we do not take into account the rights of the many, but we support the rights of the few and privileged. As a woman MP and as a mother, I too will say unauthorized and embarrassing, the phrase, the style and the tone to the Minister. He used expressions that do not match parliamentary and democracy. Words and manners characterize the one who says them, but not the one to whom they are addressed. It is also unacceptable that the SYRIZA MPs, who do not find the courage to condemn attacks that are not directed at the Minister's institutional role, but at the sacred role of the mother. Ladies and gentlemen, I leave the verbal vulgarities and the populist rhetoric that have been heard in our committee, but also here, and I focus on the main points of criticism of the opposition parties. As far as the minimum import base is concerned at universities, we are identified by the majority of Greeks and Greeks, parents and children - and this is the verification of the figures - we believe that, to enter the university, one must meet basic cognitive requirements, which create both the graduation background and in conclusion, beyond academic education, opens him up streets in life and in professional rehabilitation. As for the trivial and false refren that the New Democracy cares about the popular layers and here you are falsified with celebrity. For the people's families and the financially weakest are the ones who suffer most when they need to go beyond their capacity to study their children and often their sacrifices to be in vain, with their own enclaves and their children eternally. Besides, with new provisions, we enriched the field of knowledge from primary school, and so, from primary school, children's supplies are still increasing. You again, with the aim of becoming temporary excellence, lower the bay so that everyone enters university schools and you don't care at all how many years they will go to school if they finally graduate or what they will do after they graduate. You poison the conversation by plundering and working on children, their plans and their parents’ dreams. You are campaigning with the disappointment of the student who does not go to Metsovio or Thessaloniki, but passes to the Architecture of Patras, Ioannina or Chania. Some of his candidates did better. That's the rule of noble talk. Your talent, however, in the distortion, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is truly envious. A large part of the debate has been exhausted in the need for an assessment of the educational process. The draft law we are debating today concerns the upgrading of education and the strengthening of teachers. A key point is the tool of evaluation, which is admittedly a key point on which to ensure the provision of quality education for pupils. It is a well-established and registered position of the New Democracy that the assessment of human resources in all educational structures is necessary for the improvement, development and upgrading of education. However, it is also a consistent demand for parents and a whole range of Greek society. The word 'evaluation' to date has been a source of war. After forty years of discussion, disagreement and controversy, I think it has been established by everyone that it is necessary and necessary and only positive that it can offer pupils and teachers themselves, because evaluation will lead to training, adaptation to new data, and moderates will become good and the best ones will be better. Those who are still responding are not interested in the quality of the educational work. They see evaluation as a process of control and punishment and not as a tool for improving and developing the professional status of teachers to upgrade their educational capacity. By denying them the power of the state to determine the degree of efficiency and quality of the educational system. Parents are assured that good and optimal education is provided to their children. That's changing now. Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has served public education with eleven thousand seventeen hundred young permanent teachers, who, in two months' time, have been on duty. I repeat: the public schools that the children of the people's families are going, not the schools. These are the first permanent appointments made in general education after twelve years and even in a difficult and financially depressed period because of the pandemic. They followed the appointment of four and a half thousand permanent teachers in special education last year, the first in special education in the history of the country again in public schools. We have committed ourselves to building a modern educational system, efficient and quality, and we honour and respect them. There lies the substance and the great difference between the SYRIZA and the SYRIZA. I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mrs Keramos, on her courage, strength, determination, cooling and her rich reform work, which will benefit and open up horizons for a better future in the new generation and will make her children proud of their mother. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u68	Mr. Socrates Vardakis has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u69	Thank you very much, Mr President. My colleague, don't tell us that. Take a look at your next rows and you'll understand a lot. You will understand how lonely you have been supporting, as you were saying these days, an emblematic bill. Madam Minister, you have talked many times about a sense of law. I think you're not entitled to talk about a sense of law. Failors aren't the students. Unsuccessful are you, unsuccessful are you, incompetent you. Will you tell me, will your ear be sweating now? Yesterday you told us that you were celebrating because you gave an increase of 2% to the minimum wage and you consider it an achievement when you in 2019, when the SYRIZA government increased the minimum wage by 11%, you said about crumbs and you are not ashamed now. The President of SYRIZA was mistaken earlier, who said about the whole coup resulting from the increase. If the cookie's got a sesame, it's not enough to raise it. I would like to ask one question: Since your bills are comprehensive, as you say, they do not exist - did the previous Prime Minister provide the country with the memorial - what do you have to bring such bills, which, as you say, are emblematic in the midst of a pandemic, but mainly with closed schools and universities? I guess you're afraid of the many praises. Ladies and gentlemen, I honestly wonder whether there has been such empathy and hatred in the educational and apprenticeship community in the past, against the public school with cynicity and full apathy, you are setting up the excerpt. It would be laughing if it weren't for crying, the imaginary title you gave to the bill you brought to complete the levelling of public education. You are baptizing school upgrading devices that smell of naphthalene. Remove all concepts of collective expression in education, restoring a centralized, personalised system, structured by an incomprehensible number of executives, subordinates and missions, with the sole object of controlling the evaluation procedures. Convert regional educational planning centres to external evaluators, completely devouring their collaborative and interdisciplinary character. You wish the schoolmasters' association, giving a lot of responsibility to the schoolmaster, turning it into an evaluator, judge, punisher and absolute ruler of the school unit. How many more divisions will you sow in the educational community? You dug up the old '70 inspectors. You baptized them as school advisors and framed them with quality supervisors, not to advise on the educational and educational work of schools, but to evaluate and report. As for the strengthening of the teachers you are formulating, it would be very interesting if we heard what the teachers, whom you are ignorant of, the teachers you do not know, threatening them with disciplinary and wage deprivation, when you remove them and the slightest trace of self-activity. I cannot dwell on the provision which states that, in the event that the teacher's work is judged to be unsatisfactory, he will be following a compulsory training programme, with the training he has made impossible for your Ministry to implement at the time of the great need for telecommunications. It's really incredible what we live! We heard about the autonomy of school units, we heard about decentralisation and freedom, which contribute to the quality of the education provided. We have not heard what is easily understood, namely that schools will be categorised according to their performance, that access to resources will be commensurate with their performances, that schools of two and three speeds will be formed, that they will receive all grants and address the elite and the others that will continue to be financed and degraded until their final closure. Your nerve really has no limits. Because she wants you, Mrs. Keramos, to say this, which, when the pandemic began, you started televising without any preparation and left students, teachers and parents without any help, you who circumvented democratic procedures in the elections of the educational representatives and appointed for the first time unelected representatives on the regional councils. All you can do, Minister, with this bill, now that teachers, parents and students need as much support as possible, is prove the miles that separate you from the daily reality of the middle family. You look like you're on another planet, another parallel reality, away from the existent needs of Greek society. I have heard you in the committees say that you are disgusting society. What kind of society do you sound like? The one that's invisible to you? Madam Minister, unfortunately you have been bankrupt in vision, ideas, culture. You've been bankrupt into a plan, program and thought. But we will not allow you to deceive the public school. You will not be allowed by the new generation to abolish all concepts of law. Minister, you have been a member of the most irreversible, incompetent, but, above all, a dangerous government over the last forty years, with a working bill - an abortion that turns us back hundreds of years, an insurance that breaks down on workers, unemployed, pensioners, two of your bills, Mrs Kerameus, who offend democracy itself. Do you have the courage to look in their eyes at thousands of students who have deprived the dream of them? What are you going to say to the fighters of life and learning? And I mean, of course, the graduates of the summer high school, who cut their wings, you missed them the opportunity for a better life, you sent them undetected in the middle of a pandemic and, the worst, in the middle of a school year. Madam Minister, you have done an unfair job. Not only will your bills not be implemented, but they will be the first bills - a package of the bills by Mr Hatzidakis - which will abolish the next government that will be the government of Alexis Tsipras. Be sure that your awakening comes soon and your fall will be resounding. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u70	We will give the floor now to Mrs Anastasia Gara from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u71	Mr President, by listening to the Minister, Mrs Kerameos, for the moment I thought I was meeting the door of the school and educational paradise. So ideally he presented the consequences of the bill and all the previous legislations he has brought to Parliament. However, we all know that reality is far from the opposite. In society, things happen completely differently and the consequences of the laws you bring are to the negative, not to say anything worse. Unfortunately, in recent years, not only has this government been exposed to the needs of Greek society, insulting the effort and anxiety of even young children, but also the criminal policy it exercises at all levels, a policy that leads to the poverty of the majority of our people, a policy of anti-social and hostile to the practice of citizens, the support of citizens, a policy of hostile to development and prosperity, a policy of atheist and centralized, with insignificant blows, daily blows, the region, a policy of vengeance, vengeance towards citizens and, above all, the workers, a attitude of elitist, perhaps even contagious toward young children, who are cutting off their wings, cutting their dreams, destroying the present and future of an entire generation, a criminal policy that has broken up professional education, regardless of which you are going to be depraved by such an unscrupulous achievement, even by means of an excellence, even more than a bounty. Why, do you have computers? The IEKs require a high-school graduation certificate. It has been in force since the 1990s. It is our duty to support public IEKs as well. However, they are not part of higher education, higher education. What do you actually say to these kids? You are actually showing the door to exit the country in order to study at a university abroad if they have the financial potential. You create a new wave of Brain Drain that has the signature of Kerameos - Mitsotakis. And I wonder: What excellence, so, do you indulge? What excellence do you support? The excellence of the wallet alone, after all. Mrs. Keramos, immediately abolish the minimum import base and exercise a social welfare policy, a policy of assistance and support for students, for students, for students, so that they can easily, with support, complete their studies, if you are really interested in reducing the number of graduates. But it is so distorting, so horrific your view of education, that you end up in real criminal choices. You dare say that when the kids enter a school, at a public university department, they are trapped. The kids are locked in at the public university. That's what you're claiming. Since when does knowledge, Minister, education, enclaves people? I think you have no idea what's going on at the public university. You have no idea and no knowledge of what's going on in public school. Instead of discussing today how we can improve our school and our university and support young children, you consider the introduction of caging university. Instead of supporting and strengthening access to learning and knowledge, to support the selfishness of knowledge, a knowledge that liberates, liberates spirit, liberates people, liberates societies, you speak of caging. But what does that show? It shows you're scared. Afraid of knowledge. Fear of self-confidence, strength, social power that knowledge gives citizens. That's what you're afraid of. That's why you think the young children are being locked in at the university. Unless, of course, you consider that a public university, open to society, that gives access, opportunities, level and learning upgrades, "calls" and deprives potential customers of private colleges, which you have so supported and served. Because the only reason for cutting access to more than twenty-five thousand children and weakening dozens of regionally rated sections - with negative consequences for local communities too - is to provide customers for private colleges, for which you have arranged to assimilate degrees in previous legislations. And there, as you know, no import base, no assessment, no minimum import base, no introductory examinations. We don't mind if children write "1" or give white glue. It's a different system. Are you interested in knowledge and expertise? Are you interested in creating opportunities for all children, or have you been enclaved yourself and the entire government in your class hatred? Because cynically you tell us that anyone who has a full wallet may also have a degree. Otherwise, he will be excluded or trapped, because he will have to work alongside his studies and extend the time of study, because at the time when the New Democracy's excellent rulers rule, if you have no money, you have no right to knowledge. That is what you manage with this bill, because, as Mr Mitsotakis said in his interview, they cannot and should not all go to university. They cannot and should not study the children of the coolant from Peristeri, the farmer from Orestiada, the craftsman from Soufli, the farmer from Samothraki, because excellence for the New Democracy, education, health is considered an expensive commodity rather than fair. Unfortunately for you, everything has a price. There are no rights, values, dreams. Everything is invoiced and, indeed, invoiced. Ladies and gentlemen, with today's bill, with the imaginable title for the upgrading of school, you are effectively undermining the functioning of the school, abolishing the successful institution of regional educational planning centres with their collaborative and interdisciplinary nature established by SYRIZA and was admittedly a successful institution. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Just a minute, Mr President, I'm going to need a minute. You are introducing the punishing assessment of teachers and, indeed, in a provision that did not exist in the consultation. The evaluation of teachers is institutionalised by procedures that under no circumstances ensure objectivity and impartiality, because you are in fact not interested in any evaluation, improvement, post-education of teachers, no modernisation. However, the aim is to punish, target and ultimately to dismiss public officials. I will not go any further because time has passed, Mr President, and thank you. I will not go into detail and comment on the provisions you bring. I will, however, conclude and you will allow me, Mr President, by transferring the view of teachers from the 1st ELMED, who say that "the new bill strikes collectiveness, democracy, co-operation and a school open with prospects and vision. We are unequivocally opposed," they say, "we react and disagree with the school that will create, a school that is boned, poor, with students, teachers and parents weakened. With this bill, they continue, "we are not talking about evaluation, but about suffocating control, and meeting the basic needs of schools, pupils and teachers, by putting parents in a deeper pocket and especially by sponsors, if they are. For us," the Evros teachers say, "school means democracy, means values and they work through collectiveism and through cooperation." I wonder what public school means, what knowledge of you, Minister, and of the entire government. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u72	Mrs Maria - Alexandra Head of State from New Democracy has the floor now. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u73	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, for decades the area of education has been a field of acute confrontation, without winners and without triumphant ones. And this because this object in itself, instead of being protected as a daughter of an eye, has been trampled into the altar of political prevalence and supposedly revolutionary mood. If we all look inside, we won't find it hard to give the answers to our main objectives. Students, parents, teachers, university institutions, society we all seek the same result. We are fighting for a school of modern, friendly, competitive, autonomous, attractive to every student, a school - an enthusiasm to society, with principles and a level of knowledge provided worthy of developed states, with a role in the education of our young people. In short, we want a quality school, adapted to the needs of the twenty-first century. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is clearly reflected in the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs bill on upgrading the school and strengthening the teachers we are discussing today. It is a bill that gives the term'reform' its true meaning. It changes in such an intervening and essential way the overall logic of operation and the general orientation of our educational system, which is a great intersection in what we have known to date. Interventions without ideological, micro-party and opportunistic blindfolds, but with logic, with study of modern trends and best European practices, come to reform the Greek school. With full awareness of the existing situation, the desired result and taking into account the results of research and examples of other developed European countries, the Ministry brings a number of provisions, a grid of changes and sections through four different pillars. Pillar One: Strengthening the autonomy of schools. Do we want her? Yeah. Why? Because it has proved in practice that the more autonomous a school is, the more decentralised it is an educational system, the better and more efficiently it works compared to a centrally directed school. How are we going to do this? By applying the self-evident thing, that is, by showing confidence in our teachers and school structures, by transferring to those who know better than anyone the problems they face the possibility of operating as they themselves judge for the benefit of the students themselves. The aim of this autonomy is to adapt education to the specificities and characteristics of a class so that the teacher himself can pass on as much as possible to the team. We give teachers the opportunity to make decisions on the best of class. How will this be achieved? With the right to free selection of books from a number of approved writings, so that they can decide what it is that suits themselves and their students, with autonomy in the form of four-monthly evaluation tests and decentralisation of the process of approving educational programs, research and practice, while strengthening the role of the director and teachers in positions of responsibility and introducing an innovative procedure for Greek data, that of the diagnostic tests for the effectiveness of the educational system in Language and Mathematics, anonymous for students of primary and third grades. This will assess the cognitive level of pupils and substantially the effectiveness of our educational system as a whole and not personally. Undoubtedly, this whole process is dynamic and it is for teachers themselves to be evaluated and trained at all times. Assessment of teachers and managers: The second pillar of the bill. In order to ensure the quality of our educational system, we need a set of procedures that will enable us to achieve it. Procedures for evaluating, evaluating the effectiveness of our educational system, redesigning - wherever necessary - and interventions of an improved character, to have a clear picture of what and how a system offers, but who only positively contribute to it. The evaluation of teachers is necessary and essential as part of the overall effort to upgrade the school, along with the continuous improvement of the educational system that our teachers are asked to carry out, stressing in the most emphatic way and dissociating an artificially outdated concept that is artificially supported by a minority that evaluation means judging teachers as to whether they are doing their job well and taking strict penal measures to those who are underprivileged. Third pillar: Education support structures. Every major reform, such as this, is framed by a series of supportive moves that will give it all the institutional success supplies. The establishment of training structures of a purely pedagogical nature, with the establishment of quality supervisors at regional and educational level, the increase of counsellors from five hundred to eight hundred and the setting up of a thousand new organic posts for psychologists and social workers meeting the needs of school units of general and vocational education are to be very important tools. Finally, we have the fourth pillar of church education. By aiming at the qualitative upgrading of Cliros, we modernise secondary and higher church education. We are creating a new special postgraduate structure of church education, the students' schools of candidate clergy, one of which will be held in Ioannina. Ladies and gentlemen, the future does not wait and we must give the new generation of inclusiveness and limitations the best level of knowledge we can. We have knowledge, will, will, will, infrastructure and above all, the appropriate training staff with worthy teachers at all levels of education, so that we can manage and manage. The Greek school of the future will be an open school, a modern school, equal to Europeans, with the fronts of our teachers and young people. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mrs. Head. Here comes Mr. Zabeck Hussein from SYRIZA. Here, you have the floor, Mr Colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u75	Thank you. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill we are debating is entitled 'Strengthening the school and strengthening of teachers'. Behind this unfortunate title is the persistent effort of the Government and the Ministry of Education to pass a series of new social discrimination on the basis of quality for a few. Since the beginning of the governance of the New Democracy, we have expressed our reservations about the education ministry's policy being pursued. The whole Greek society has now become aware that this policy is disastrous for the vast majority of the school population, especially after the results of the Greek examinations and the application of the minimum import base. Before going to the main theme of the bill, I think it is worth a brief review of the education policy followed by the government to date by a little mention of the initiatives that have affected education in my prefecture, Xanthi. Following the resolution of No4692/2020, the Government launched a struggle to set up experimental schools throughout the country, precisely and without any consultation with local communities. A characteristic example was the conversion of the 17th Municipal School of Xanthi to experimental work following a proposal by the Director of Primary Education of Xanthi. Parents and local bodies reacted strongly. However, there was no possibility of converting the decision, despite the fact that alternative proposals were put forward. In fact, the school unit did not even meet the criteria set by the law for converting it into an experimental school. Nevertheless, the Ministry seemed unmovable without consent with the parents. This has resulted, beyond the loss of the student neighborhood school, in altering its own character and aim of experimental schools. The government's slump in vocational education is another more perplexing example. We have often raised sociologically the issue of students at the professional schools of EASA. Under Law 4763/2020, the government has made it possible to downgrade the diplomas of the students of the European Community without providing for any transitional arrangements for those introduced under the former scheme. This error has been partially corrected by the transitional provision, so that at least they do not have to give certification examinations to the EEAA for the next two years, but without any change for the level of certification. As you can see, this option, beyond unfairness, was also completely surprising for students who had entered schools with other data. The amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Members in this bill aims to restore this enormous injustice involving over eighty-eight thousand students of vocational schools throughout Greece and within them is my prefecture, Xanthi Law. We propose the lifting of the retrospective legislation which led to the provision of level 3 diplomas and the issue of level 4 degrees, that is, in accordance with the student's import arrangements. I hope you will accept this amendment, Minister. And we arrive in the summer of 2021, when the Minister announced the eleven thousand seven hundred appointments of teachers, who were, of course, made with money, but also the procedure laid down by the SYRIZA Government. In fact, the permanent appointments are necessary for the staff and the renewal of education. Although you have been late enough, a few days ago you announced the breakdown by sector. However, I am surprised to note that recruitment to minority education is missing. No recruitments were provided for the IP 73. Do you think that minority education is so well and adequately staffed and is there no shortage that you will not even anticipate an intake of an ET 73? Anyone who knows how minority education works is well aware of the enormous needs it has and especially the need for quality upgrades. The lack of appointments of permanent educational minorities, beyond your complete indifference, reveals that it is your strategic choice to degrade minority education. Zero recruitment is obviously another sign of discrimination. And we are coming to today's debate. Today's bill is another case of rejecting any positive initiative by the SYRIZA Government by the Government of New Democracy. At the same time, with the amendments you have tabled, you can prove your willingness to create two speed schools as I will explain below. SYRIZA with L.4547/2018 had established the regional educational planning centres, PECS, in addition to the self-assessment of schools, so that the responsibility for supporting the school unit was transferred to a multidisciplinary team. The New Democracy is now abolishing them. It restores the school's individual teaching guidance, renamed school advisors to education advisors, with the essential role of the evaluator, without knowing the daily life of the school unit. Your aim is not to pedagogical support from schools, but to implement the evaluation by means of procedures that do not ensure objectivity and impartiality. Participation in it is forced by explicit provision and omission is a disciplinary misconduct. Even the training of teachers, while it is a precondition for the effective conduct of the teaching work, is essentially transformed into a form of punishment after any negative evaluation. All of this comes to add to Amendment No 1005/70, which provides for a number of conflicting provisions specific to minority schools. Hence the government's intention to create two speed schools. The fact is that while cooperation with universities is provided for in the bill for all schools for the purpose of research or the setting-up of educational groups or funding from donations and inheritances, minority schools are excluded from regulation. Regardless of the political disagreement we may have with these arrangements, this separation is not justified. We also hope that the free choice of teaching books by the teachers of the Greek-language programme will also apply to minority schools, as was the case with the SYRIZA Government with great success and teachers could make use of the school manuals of public schools. Finally, even the superpowers acquired by the head of the school unit, we see that in the case of minority education they are distributed between director and assistant director. This to some extent is justified by the operation of these schools with two programmes, but we have doubts as to whether minority schools will be able to function properly in these circumstances. I would like to stress that minority schools are the property of Vakoufi and that any school is automatically closed to use the building in the vakoufi to which the school building belongs. So why don't there be any events in these buildings? You must withdraw this amendment which will only create problems in minority education, which already has many problems. In closing, I would say that it is certain that this bill does not upgrade but degrade and divide education. This whole climate can only be reversed by changing the country's governance by a progressive radical government that will close all the wounds opened by the New Democracy and provide unity, vision and perspective in the country and the new generation. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u76	The third circle of speakers is completed. We enter the fourth circle of speakers with the first speaker, Mr Hatzidis Anastasios, from New Democracy. Mr. Kalamatianos, Mr. Mulkiotis, Mr. Spanakis, Mr. Markos and Mr. Giokas will be followed. They are half the speakers in the fourth cycle. Mr. Hatzidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u77	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill - a section that upgrades education and is at the heart of government announcements. The government has shown that education is a high priority. After all, we all know that school plays an important role in shaping the nature of children, young people. The aim today is to create an open and free school that develops critical competence and skills, providing lasting support to students and teachers, a school that will give everyone opportunities and ensures the facilities for tomorrow's citizens, in response to the particular needs of each child separately, a school that frees the educational potential and of course supports them daily in every way. They deserve congratulations to the government for the introduction of a thousand hundred posts of psychologists and ministers in schools. In combination with last year’s two thousand eight hundred recruits, we lead to a school of tolerance, support and understanding of the needs of our students. We're building a safety net for young children, because the school really has to be a safe space for everyone. Every student, every student should feel comfortable, without harassment, without bowling, without threats, without violence and when a child experiences a difficult situation, whether at home or in school, he should be able to speak comfortably and safely to someone. This framework of operation forms a better society gradually. So we have to agree today that nothing can work unless there is a better organization at the school itself, unless we give the teachers the framework to develop and take initiatives. And I will say it clearly: the state trusts its teachers. That is why we are not afraid to give more autonomy to the school unit. And here we want your support. I do not understand why some colleagues disagree with autonomy in schools. There is not currently 80% of the decisions concerning day-to-day life in schools to be taken by the Ministry in Athens and not by the units themselves. We want the school to listen to the needs of the student community and to meet the conditions of each region. This autonomy also includes economic issues, as it will be possible to use the schools' facilities - after hours, of course - for events, activities and anything else. With such interventions we build open school, the school that will be open to its students and teachers. Our orientation is clear: freedom, autonomy and progress. Does anyone doubt that it is the teachers who are best acquainted with the needs of the students? In this direction, therefore, it is also the free choice of a book. The teacher will be able to choose from different approved manuals and propose what he considers most appropriate on a case-by-case basis and these books will also be available in digital format. So we cultivate the critical thought and leave the useless parrot behind. These initiatives give new breath to school, and I wonder, gentlemen of SYRIZA, why you disagree. Do you not consider our teachers worthy and capable of judging, choosing, guiding and directing children? Greater freedom in the school unit is certain that it also requires a system of control and balances, an accountability mechanism. So the evaluation of teachers is not just useful, it is necessary. I come from a family of teachers, and I say it in the name of knowledge. The teachers and teachers never feared evaluation. Besides, they are evaluated daily by the most difficult judge: their student. The evaluation, therefore, is not a bogeyman, it is not a punishment, it is a way to be gradually better. We want the teacher not to feel threatened with a stagnation. So we have an assessment in front of us that brings about an improvement incentive, does not give rise to punishment, as some colleagues have heard. Our aim is one: to improve the education provided. How else could we see what's going on in schools? To end, then, with the fear of a minority who is releasing theories of the past and who speaks of various, even supposedly redundancies. Our teachers are public officials for whom we are proud and have nothing to fear at all. Ladies and gentlemen, the school took a big leap to the new age when it successfully responded to the urgent needs of the pandemic with the necessary telematics. The educational community, parents and the Ministry of Education made it possible that many people felt impossible some time ago. And that proves that we can do everything with effort, organization and perseverance. We trust the Greek teacher, we give him the tools, supplies and autonomy to build a school that will finally meet the challenges of the future. We reject excess populism and trade in hope for young children. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u78	Now Mr. Kalamatiano has the floor from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u79	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, once again you are bringing to the debate and voting in the House a bill aimed at degrading the public school, the public university. Once again you put the exact opposite title on the contents of your bill. You are talking about supposedly upgrading school and supposedly strengthening teachers. But is that so? Is that your target? Apparently not. Unfortunately, you aim to the exact opposite. This bill follows your previous legislation on education that promotes social discrimination, the huge deficit in social justice and the widening of social and regional disparities. Basically, it limits the adequate education process for children in degraded environments with minimal human potential and a few financial instruments. You put an end to the qualitative and fertile interaction between teachers and students. But you don't live here alone. In order to check the training process, you are continuing to strengthen the executive hierarchy. You weaken collective expression and representation in educational institutions. You are also setting up a strict administrative structure and an evaluation system for educational staff. So you continue to legislate in the light of your ideas and not the real needs of society and the educational community. A characteristic example is the sharp decline in admissions to universities in the country, in public universities. In the health and economic crisis, you did not hesitate to proceed with the adoption and application of the minimum import base. You did not hesitate to deprive the dream and the portion of thousands of students who wanted to enter schools in higher education. You claim that you want not only students who take grades '2' and '3' to enter public universities. You don't want those students to come in. But that's hypocritical. At the same time, in private colleges, anyone who wants where he wants to go or, rather, to be fair, enters whoever has to pay. At the same time, you rushed to equate the degrees of private colleges with public universities, so that the college graduates could also get the jobs. Two yards and two weights, then! This is obviously the excellence you are evangelizing, an excellence that concerns the few, the chosen, the powerful, who will be reproduced through the educational process. For you "excellent" are the ones who have to pay. As for the vast majority of society, all those who cannot pay will literally bleed, themselves and their families, strive hard to get into the public university and there will be too many blockades on that path. You lie when you say that those who write "2" and "3" are excluded in the pan-Hellenic. We have too many complaints, hundreds of thousands of children who, despite writing '15', '16', '17', even excellence, stayed out of university departments. What you are really seeking is to transform tertiary education into a luxurious product for the few and selected. Do you have to pay? You'll study. Don't you have one? Then you will see your hopes falling and in too many cases evaporate. That is why a new progressive government is necessary to correct these distortions. We have tabled six amendments, because we do not have a sterile opposition, but we are also making concrete proposals. You see our viewpoint and view of things to improve education does not involve reducing admissions and closing public universities. Our view incorporates the desire for quality and substantial support for public schools and universities with scientific staff and logistics, which looks forward to more high-level students and students. Of course, in Elijah, we have felt your disastrous policy very hard. Before applying the minimum import base, you rushed to announce the exit of the departments operating in Elias from the computer, rushed to implement a violent, unfair and unequivocally and without objective criteria for the disappearance of the university departments of Elias. Their disappearance from the academic map showed what will follow. You have effectively despised a whole prefecture with a special and special cultural heritage, with huge productive potential. You have made summary decisions beyond all logic. And don't tell me that the disappearance of parts from the place that gave birth to the Olympic Games or one of the largest irrigated camps in our country stands in logic. The people of Elijah, however, know all this and will not forgive you. Finally, I would like to point out that what public education needs is funding, is structures, is strengthening staff. It needs modernisation. It needs support for pupils and, above all, for students with reduced learning opportunities and reduced financial opportunities. Local support is needed in rural and remote areas. Actions that reduce and reduce regional disparities are needed. They need real equal opportunities and not seemingly. You, unfortunately, are on the opposite path. You're talking about modernising and developing the free spirit, and you're putting the police at universities. You tell us about so-called education for all, and you put the minimum import base which excludes more than twenty thousand children from public universities. Do you really think that with the standards schools you are offering equal opportunities to all students? Do you really think they don't reproduce and expand inequality? Where are these schools to be set up in rural areas in regional schools? Apparently not. They will be founded in urban areas with good buildings, nice rooms and selected staff. What does not seem to be reform, therefore, does not guarantee equality and equal opportunities for the vast majority of citizens. On the contrary, it is a counter-reform that broadens inequalities. You know, your parade has made great efforts in the past to pass these anachronistic, reactionary and regressive views. Progressive citizens responded resolutely and those efforts collapsed. Now is the time again for the citizens, parents, teachers, students, our youth to respond in a strong way to your new effort.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u80	Mr Mulkiotis Georgios has the floor now from the Change Movement.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u81	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, today most of the people involved in the education process and, more generally, in the school community feel remorseful and beneath what is being done, in any case trying to understand and adapt to developments. And why is that? Above all, because almost all the Ministers for Education, including Mrs Kerameos, have sought and sought to become reformers, are announcing a dialogue that most of the time is pretext or upload bills for consultation, so that the predictions and pretexts can be observed, since no substantial proposal for change and improvement is accepted. And, of course, with this bill, we are in the same work as spectators, as it is a legislation which is not the product of institutional dialogue with political forces, with the scientific unions and the representatives of teachers, in order to create a climate of consensus, but also a long-term agreement on the exercise of education policy. Two years have passed since the New Democracy took over power and has still not been re-established at the National Education Council which had been abolished by the previous government. They change and relocate dozens of Ministers and State Secretarys, laws, decrees, executives, programs, books and so forth. But the main problems and the school remain the same, and they restore to the forefront chronic distortions of our educational system. These problems are mainly structural and above all qualitative. That is why addressing them requires nothing other than planning, but directed from the educational pyramid to the top, with a single methodology and targeting. But above all, there is a need for educational policy that definitely requires dialogue and national consensus, as is the case in other civilised countries, where educational changes take place for years, are tested pilotically and then embraced by the citizens. We all realise today that the school of the 21st century is being called upon to play the most complex and demanding role ever and, of course, that its flexibility and adaptation to the new real conditions and requirements are a matter of individual progress and national survival. And that's why they all need review, but all the hooks of our educational system. Unfortunately, the government, and with this piece of legislation, is only to reintroduce some positive provisions that have been introduced in the past - and I am going to refer to No 3848/2010 - and the criteria for selecting managers have not been completed, but on the contrary we point out seven main points which demonstrate what the government is doing. Firstly, it subjugates teaching and supervision in management, making the issue of objectivity quite clear. Secondly, the evaluation is driven by management. Thirdly, it does not describe the record as part of all the training staff. Fourthly, it does not immediately reintroduce the topic bank and the national dismissal to high school in the transitional provisions. Fifthly, it does not reinstate the full-day programme of a single reformed educational programme, a breakfast hours at 14.00 hours, the additional five hours of teaching a week, the full-day person and, of course, it baptizes - because something has to say - the flexible zone in a skill lab. Sixth, it gives overpower to the head of the school unit, downgrading collectiveness and the school club. Responsibilities of the Teachers' Association shall be transferred to the sole representative. And, seventhly, it downgrades the educational dimension of the learning process and strengthens competition by means of examinations of the performance of pupils, but without qualitative changes in the functioning of the school. Ladies and gentlemen, modern social, economic, cultural and technological changes require systematic planning of the country's education policy so that the Greek school can respond directly and successfully to the needs of modern times. We have to realise that the rug was going through education, leading to further distortion, leading future generations to dead ends in an internationally competitive environment. Only with wide education, basic skills in science and technology, digital capacity, acquisition of values and principles that develop the status of active but also responsible citizen education can stand in the future. However, this requires the credibility of the state, it requires everyone's consent to an educational policy with basic principles of education and society's interest. The government, however, with this legislation unfortunately only succeeds in adding another lost opportunity to education but also to the educational system. But the worst thing is, Minister, that our society cannot stand any more lost opportunities. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u82	We thank Mr Mulkiotis and the economy in time. We will now give the floor to Mr Spankee from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u83	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are talking today about school, education, teachers and teachers. For many decades we have been constantly discussing school, education, university and teachers. What do we do, however, in practice over the years, not only to improve and upgrade the training provided at all levels, but at least to modernise according to the new data and the times that change? How many real reforms have been dismantled or never been made because of ideologies or obsessed or in order to change anything or not to unravel, but as a society we also have no tendency to react to all the new ones that are being attempted? The rapporteur at the first meeting of the committee, the first to mention - be careful - was the'slap of admissionees at universities'. In other words, we have, on the one hand, the agony and trouble of thousands of candidates and their families, and on the other hand we have the officers of the Officers of the Opposition to speak of massacres. And exactly where the massacre was. We're talking over seventy thousand invaders. If anything, let us be pitiful in our expressions! The current draft law, following the previous bills of the New Democracy Government for a comprehensive reform in the field of education, seeks to upgrade the quality of primary and secondary education through the new structures, strengthen the autonomy of the school, select appropriate executives, strengthen the independence and role of staff, evaluate, systematically and continuously evaluate. This is probably the key point, as there are many people who react to the hearing and only the word "evaluation". What for? Who are they afraid of evaluation? What worker, what professional, what employee is mainly excluded from the evaluation? Excellent professionals, however, who are competent in their role, are asking for evaluation in all branches. They are not afraid of it, they do not deny it, because the evaluation acknowledges their work, they are rewarded, they are evolving, they are moving forward. This draft law updates the institutional framework for primary and secondary education structures, with the main aim of making a substantial contribution to the process of education. New structures and new posts of a purely pedagogical nature, both at management level and at regional level, are being established. Our country has one of the most centralised educational systems in Europe and outside of Europe. This centralism is now obsolete and the main purpose of this bill is decentralisation, autonomy, the independence of the school. We therefore have for this purpose the quality supervisors of education and the regional quality supervisors of education. We also have the Regional Board of Supervisors. Five hundred forty tutors of training work in the region are set up in eight hundred training advisers' posts in the training courses, which are met by teachers and members of special training staff who will be close to teachers and will support their work on a daily basis. The Educational and Advisory Support Centres, established in 2018, are renamed "Scientific Advisory and Support Assessment Centres", which are upgraded and strengthened. One hundred new organic posts, five hundred psychologists and five hundred sociologists are set up to meet the needs of general and vocational education schools, but above all they will help parents who can address them. We see, then, that particular emphasis is placed on the psycho-emotional part, which in our country was - and poorly - on a very second degree. We have the School Support Networks and the Interdisciplinary Support Committees, which aim to strengthen and promote cooperation. We place emphasis on school guidance, with the placement of a school leader at every secondary education department and the establishment of an Advisory and Orientation Office per school group. The evaluation of teachers, but also of all staff, is an essential measure for a strong, efficient, quality education system. At the same time, it is also a means of continuous improvement, giving incentives and opportunities for growth. The purpose of the evaluation is not, of course, punishment. It is the reward, as well as the help and opportunity for improvement wherever needed and for anyone who wants it. For the autonomy of the school unit, I will refer to only a few indicative arrangements, such as the free choice of a book, the multiple book, which enables teachers to choose the book they will teach. All this material will be available in a digital library. Establishment of educational groups: It is something that is only in the public school today. Monthly pedagogical meetings, strengthening and supporting the role of the Director. Allow me here to open a small parenthesis and tell you that I come from parents of teachers. My mother was in public school. With the gravity that this bill gives, with the initiatives that this bill gives the director finally gives the authority a teacher needs. I wonder how you come to Parliament and do not vote for such provisions, when with this bill we actually institutionalise the educational decentralisation that our educational system needs. Simple words: We give choices, we respect institutions within a school community. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Because, dear rapporteur of the Officerial Representation, you have not only finished at a public school. You have not only served on five-member, fifteen-member boards, or on students’ seats or in the docks through student leave. We've played games, too. We have also fought for a better education system and we are here, from the Step forward of this House and say that, yes, it is a serious educational reform that brings educational decentralisation and we must all believe it and we must all support it. You heard the call he made a few hours ago from the Step this Prime Minister of the country saying that public education is a matter of national and it is not a matter of party. In conclusion, Mr President - and I thank you very much for your tolerance - the bill is being reorganised and church education is being modernised. Secondary church education is part of general secondary education, but under the supervision of the State. Teachers and students will be selected on the basis of criteria. A special postgraduate structure of church education is being established. In this context, there are three pupils of candidate clergy, with a two-year curriculum.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u84	Finish, Mr. Spaniard.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u85	I'll be done. A School of Client Learning and the Rizario Church School is being set up. In closing, I mean, we're finally going to an creative school. We leave behind the sterile meltdown and we support the critical thought. We trust teachers and we give them greater freedom, but at the same time also increased accountability. We are strengthening autonomy, merit and rewarding the competent.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u86	All right, Mr. Spankee.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u87	We're giving our children a new school. We are giving our children a new European school. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u88	Mr Marcos Konstantinos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I would like to begin by noting the fact that you have the greatest insult throughout this whole debate is making a large portion of our youth a great deal of money these days. This insult you have brought is that, on the basis of your criteria, either those who fail to get in or much more of those who, based on the false evidence presented by the Prime Minister or you and you do not complete their studies, are either fools or fools or lazy ones and that you are building a process that this public does not want. It's a big insult that I hope you're reminiscent of at some point. With the completion of a communication of the statistics on the performance of candidates and the minimum import bases in all departments, the destruction picture is completed, as Mr Philis said. [[At this point the Third Vice-President of Parliament takes over Mr Athanasios BOURAS]] The numbers are undeclared. Last year, the bidders were ninety thousand six hundred and, together with those who claimed in 2020 a place in the HEIs by measure of 10%, amounted to a hundred and five thousand. The positions available were seventy - seven thousand ninety - seventy. This year, seventy-seven thousand fourteen positions are available at the HEIs - about the same - and the candidates who competed were ninety-two thousand, about the same. If the same system existed last year, i.e. without the minimum import base, it would be excluded because of a lack of jobs for the fourteen thousand candidates. But, this year, too many people are excluded. The exact number hasn't been shown yet. Moderate calculations are based on twenty thousand, without taking into account the distortions of special courses, the increased minimum import bases which have set many of the departments and the paradox tragic combination of minimum import bases in general and in special courses, ending of course with the carotidisation of the summer high school and of the PES students. This year, they will be covered at most, based on your legislation, by fifty-five thousand posts. The rest will be empty. As President Tsipras said, such a percentage reduction has since the beginning of the operation of the Greek University. It is obvious that the conscious choice is to be channelled to colleges as a priority. You have now, in my opinion, done so. Public opinion is aware of it. These colleges acquire a new clientele with the combined blows you bring to public education. Apart from lowering students, at the same time, you professionally upgrade college degrees with those of public universities, you shrink the universities, you do not give new ICP membership posts, as you owe to the existing one by one, which we have won, but also with reduced funding. It's multiple hits. And with the press's argument not to enter white glue they collapse from the same numbers, since candidates will be cut off with high ratings, as you have heard and will hear other cases that are very indicative. At the level of departments, losses are expected to be made in more than two hundred and twenty divisions, i.e. 50% of the sections, with some leading to zero or very small number of importers, while their academic work is truly irreplaceable. We'll see it in details when the ball sits and there you'll be evaluated and you'll see which parts it's about. But you're also doing another terrible political panic. Thousands of children see computers closed or with few choices. Your main objectives are at some point prospective - already the collegelors make the request - to fund public money colleges as well. Fortunately, you won't have time. You are showing, Minister, despite all the hundreds of letters of protest and omissions of institutions, that you are unrepentant and indeed a champion of the monstrous feud you have created. I'm putting out a document to enrich your collection by letters. It's a specific consignor. It is called the Municipality of Kifokeris, who is named after him. He is an assistant professor in the field of construction and project management at the Department of Architecture and Political Engineering in Gothenburg. It lists its CV, which is available to every one who wants it and says to the man: "To enter the university I passed the hell of the pan-Hellenics in the third grade and in the second grade...". They're one of those who gave pan-Hellenics to both classes. "To succeed, my family left a fortune in care, which we missed very much, because we are working class. They entered Aristotle's political engineers with eighteen thousand five hundred molecules." He had a high score. "I finished my school at seven years..." already begins to take the rets against you of the eternal student "...absolutely, because I was working." In fact, the man says he was working at PAOK's court. "I left in 2018 for Sweden where I live and work. So if I were to give these tests this year, nothing would have happened if I had given them full - time. I wouldn't pass anywhere. I would not be an assistant, nor would I be a publisher, Sweden or anything." I'm filing it in the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Constantine Markou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Now you come to "support" and your accomplices, some of the precipices and say: "They, children, have proposed it." You hide that you've made a commitment to them that if they don't give the minimum basis, then you will. Their Synod says that it expresses its concern about the impact of the application of the minimum base, especially at regional university departments. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I said that to the committee. At some point, some of these fellow Members will be put before their academic community and will explain why you are co-responsible and collaborative. Just, as it happens in some procedures - I don't say heavy talk - sometime the accomplice gives the other one. Now, with your bill you mislead, because you neither upgrade nor strengthen anything. The following educational policy moves in the logic of quality for a few. This policy is disastrous for education and for the vast majority of pupils. It results in stagnation and deterioration. I'm fasting. Remove the Regional Educational Planning Centres without any evaluation. You're removing the Sustainable Education Centres. You add the environment and sustainability with which fragmentary support comes to school in the implementation of school activities. You also did not answer that at all. This regulation provides for the acidification of the increase in teaching duties not to be recognised as a teaching service. Last minute fix this. With regard to the criteria for selecting executives, this is our regulation. He had a feedback to the training act. You're the one who's got a reproduction of the same. The selection boards shall appoint a majority. You're kicking out the nobles and kicking out the trade unions who the Prime Minister so contemptuously spoke about them a while ago. You know, SYRIZA doesn't have many trade unionists in these areas. Most are trade unionists of the New Democracy and the IAEA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u90	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u91	I shall conclude, Mr President. I give you my word. Of course, the Director's superpowers for unfair transactions and customer relations. Minister, I must admit that in the past, sometimes when I accused you of inaccurate, I have wronged you, because you really have less responsibility when we have the Prime Minister himself to lie. What should we expect from you? What did the Prime Minister say in his speech a moment ago? He said investors prefer Greece because Greeks are educated. And now you come with a bill to reduce the educated Greeks. Second, how many graduate? President Tsipras proved it. I will also present you with another statistic, which is of EUROSTAT and the Ministry of Education, which shows that the graduation rate when tested in relation to the number of importers is 77% to 62% and is not...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u92	Finish, Mr. Marcus.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u93	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u94	You've said three times that you're done.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u95	I close with a question to you: So far, within four days, sixty-two thousand signatures have been filed asking for you to resign. How many signatures will be able to touch your sensitivity. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u96	I shall now give the floor, for reasons explained in the Bureau, to Mr Rousopoulos and then to Mr Ioannis Giokas. Mr. Russopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u97	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I will choose to deal only with the question of evaluation, giving some examples of what is happening in other countries that are in the OECD. In France secondary teachers are evaluated every six to seven years by experts from the Ministry of Education. In Germany, there is an assessment of local Land Education Ministry, which defines the procedures. In the Netherlands, the evaluation does not only exist horizontally, but 38% of primary schools and 62% of secondary schools choose to evaluate teachers annually. Other European countries such as Ireland, Spain, Denmark follow the French model, on which the evaluation of education is based mainly on the follow-up of courses within the classroom. The same basic pillar exists in other OECD countries, America, Chile, Canada, Australia, Japan, South Korea. I won't give you any more examples. I choose to speak only on the question of evaluation, hoping that a different perspective, which I would like to offer to our concerns, might seem useful. In the modern educational process there are two ways of assessing, although there are many common points, but there are also some differences. In English, in fact, they are expressed in two different words, assence and evaluation. I do not often use foreign words from this Step, but because England is taking the lead in education, I think it is worth mentioning these two methods. One method refers mainly to the quality of the educational process with a view to finding ways of improving this quality. Like learning, it has the character of the process. What do I mean by that? It individualizes, repeats and is therefore corrected and progresses through feedback. The other method turns towards the resulting result of learning. It consists of assessment criteria according to which the assessor or the class he teaches is assessed. It identifies shortcomings in which it intervenes, while applying ratings for assessment and comparison. The draft law that we are rightly discussing proposes, depending on the aims pursued and the two species mentioned above, and that is why it speaks of a shaping and overall assessment. The problem with the negative ones is not in the direction and technical details of this bill. The problem lies in the lack of confidence of a large part of the Greek society in its institutions and leadership. Distrust is one of the characteristics of people whose political life was formed, as was unfortunately ours, mainly through customer relations. The question, therefore, is how teachers and trainees will believe in the impartiality of the process. That is all experience will do. I do not want to comment extensively, but it has been heard earlier by a party leader of the Hessen opposition party that they should be involved in the evaluation councils and hereditary trade unionists. It's two completely different things. It is another reason why someone is a trade unionist and another reason why the educational process, the educational process, its perseverance, the quality of education produced through persons, is assessed by manuals and, above all, by persons. That is why, as the Prime Minister mentioned earlier, many of us remember from school teachers who were real exceptions, beacons to inspire us to do things in our lives. How, then, will they believe in the impartiality of the process of teachers and trainees? Of course, only experience can implement this. Unfortunately, there is a percentage of Greeks who, whatever they do, will have access to their dear conspiracy, as the anti-embolic movement recently showed. Beyond this small percentage, however, let us be careful, because the question of evaluation will not reduce government credibility, as may be hopeful of the Civic Opposition. The controversy of this kind will contribute to the perpetuation of the Greek society of distrust towards the institutions and the perpetuation of irrationalism, an irrational approach to the interpretation of things, which in turn draws a "good" vicious cycle of conspiracy. It is time, then, for our society to increase its social capital, what is internationally measured by confidence. We will not achieve this in four years' time, it is certain. It is a lasting battle, as long as there are determined to give it. Most - I want to believe - in this Chamber we are determined, even if we disagree on the basic elements of the bill. The draft law on evaluation, especially in education, is exactly one of the issues I mentioned earlier, a critical link between this policy and that mentality that we are fighting for and is another reason why we will vote on today and we will implement it tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Rusopulus too. The speaker of the Communist Party of Greece, Mr Giokas, has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u99	What is the main argument of the Government and Members of Parliament - and Mr Russopoulos has said above - to support this reactionary, disparate and darkening bill that has as a central objective the categorisation of schools and students? The main argument we have heard before is that this bill implements international standards in the field of education, good educational practices, as the Minister has said, best practices, as we have heard about the labour law, that these are the guidelines of the European Union and of the OECD on education. We recognize that. That's what it is. These are the directions of the European Union and the OECD, of these international anti-grassroots organisations in relation to education, and we are not going to make the criticisms made by SYRIZA that, while implementing these practices when it was government, now pretends that he knows nothing about the murder. But what you're not saying is more. Finally, what were the consequences of implementing these practices and these guidelines in the countries that have been implemented? This is the central question you are not answering neither the Ministry nor the Government's MPs. In other words, where the categorisation of schools has been applied, the separation of pupils, the division of the uniform nature of the education process in the name of autonomy and a false assessment, what has been done? Has the educational level been up so that integrated personalities can be developed that can perceive physical and social reality, and critically monitor scientific and technological developments? Were the inequalities and class barriers that exist in an exploitation society blunt? The problems not in general education have been tackled, but the problems of education from the point of view of the people's needs, why can capital also find problems in education when he wants to make it even more his responsibility? Have problems been addressed, such as the costs that families have to pay for their children's education, and whether they have this possibility? The answer is clear. Nothing happened but none of this. The situation is barely worse and it will be even worse here, in our country, if the people, youth, teachers do not resist this policy. In order not to speak abstractly, to be specific, let us take the example of three European countries. Germany: Unique only has the four-year primary school Grundschule. Immediately afterward, students are divided into three types of schools of different levels, capacities and prospects, and from the age of eleven, that is, our fifth grade, the student is led to differentiated programs, even in years of study. That is, Minister, which you have gone to do with the separation of pupils and who have taken it back in the barn, and which has shown your intentions, however, was the precursor to such de facto categorisation from the most tender age. Of these three types of schools in the German system, basically only one, Gymnasium, and indeed a small number of pupils will finally reach the university. And finally who will study is not a matter of individual choice, but has a clear class reference, since the vast majority of students on the basis of the statistics follows the educational path the same as their parents. In short, higher education and presumption of higher social strata reproduce themselves through educational structures. We go down to England, which is the flagship of categorization where the detailed program, school manuals, supervisory tools, the selection courses are determined by school at a school based on the region of each school, i.e. based on the class origin of the students: poor neighborhoods, less poor, rich and say. The Ministry of Education decides on a detailed programme and, on this basis, publishing houses issue manuals, working sheets and different levels of examinations according to the category of school addressed. For example, the course of natural sciences in lower schools in England offers unified courses. On the contrary, in good schools, the courses of natural sciences are given distinctly, such as chemistry, biology, physics and they go by saying. Even teaching methods differ from school to school. The result was reflected in a report by a professor of sociology at the LSE - it is not a Communist Party of Greece, I assure you - and a teacher of education in Cambridge. What's he saying? "Even more concern is caused by class and racial polarization in all areas and levels of British education." Here's the results. The same is happening in France. Although France, due to both historical circumstances and Enlightenment, started from a better starting point of view, the results of PISA are revealing. France is the country where the socio-economic origin of pupils has the greatest effect on school performance. So these are your international and European standards, gentlemen of the government and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because you too are not going back to the outrage of Euro-Union policies. Mr Tsipras came here today and said that the European Union and the Commission are moving - he says - in the opposite direction to what the New Democracy Government does. You have come to invoke the Finnish model, which we have been discussing since the beginning of 2000 since Diamantopoulou, which has led to the closure of two and a half thousand schools in recent years. Of course, the Finnish model scores very well. But where? In OECD competitions that do not measure the overall education of pupils, but the performance of skills. That's right. The OECD, as it gives instructions on how to become cheaper and flexible workers, thus giving instructions on how to prepare them in school for learning, working and above all ideologically. However, for SYRIZA mostly, if he wants to apply the Finnish model, he now has the right people to do so. It also has know-how, for example, the former Minister of Education of the Government of New Democracy - PASOK, Mr Kedicoglou, who fired hundreds of teachers in one night. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I conclude, Mr President, by saying this: the modern European school that has been envisioned by the Ministry of Education and which has been striving for thirty years, all governments have been trying to implement in our country - and it has been very important that the struggles that have taken place in recent years have been delaying even such choices - are the school of downgrading the educational level, the class barriers to access to higher education. It is not just class inequalities, which in any case exist in society, but, through the educational process, these inequalities become even more acute. And as for the educational results of these models, let's not go far. Let us only take irrationalism, darkness, the negligence of science that has manifested itself in the middle of a pandemic in too many countries. All these phenomena are your ideological and spiritual children, because in a school lessons are degraded, such as biology, such as physics, to get the skills that capital needs. The speech today by Mrs Kerameos was an ego, an anthem in skills and even takes into account teaching skills, such as sexual education, which should normally be part of the educational process. What's that? Is that a skill? So when you have such a school, when it is taught in a school that there is no objective truth and reality that man can get to know it and change it - and most importantly it is bothering you - but there is a multitude of truths, of individual experiences and the others, which are the depository of subjectivity and individualism, then Frankenstein is born. These are your politics, your ideology, your system and the school you're building. And it's no accident, because you're doing your sluts, you use them as a convenient opponent. It is no accident, and what Mr Russopoulos said before about the negative ones of the evaluation. The gatherings are also made: negative evaluations, negative masks, negative vaccinations and others. This is how you use it to justify your policy. We are therefore fighting for a school and a society in a radically different direction. It is the school of popular needs, the really progressive, modern school of the 21st century. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u100	And we thank Mr. Gioka. The New Democracy MP, Mr Panayota Dounya, has a turn now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u101	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the new draft law of the Ministry of Education, loyal to the government's election commitments, continues to upgrade education in the country. It does this by bringing about significant changes to the Greek school, which should have been made years ago, releasing the creativity of teachers, giving those who are concerned with the important decisions that concern it and assessing the whole process of education from the beginning to the end. The ultimate aim of all this, as I believe, and all of us are progress and especially the best possible for our children. The law on the upgrading of school, on the strengthening of teachers, follows on from other legislation of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for the improvement of school, the transformation of vocational education and the upgrading of higher education. The Government of New Democracy insists on creating a better public school, which will provide more facilities for students, while investing in the educational initiative in a context of greater freedom, support and increased accountability. In particular, the bill we are discussing consists of three pillars: the first pillar is the strengthening of the autonomy of the school unit, the second pillar concerns the establishment of an evaluation mechanism, and the third is the strengthening of the structures for supporting the educational work. Ladies and gentlemen, with regard to the need to strengthen the autonomy of school units, I think that the data speak for themselves. More than 80% of decisions concerning the day-to-day operation of the school have been taken by the Ministry of Education for decades at central level. The proportion in other countries does not exceed 35%. So we are finally avoiding powers from the central government, removing the Ministry's powers for the benefit of the schools, the powers of the Secretary-General, the Minister and the State Secretary of State are being transferred to school, and we are doing so because we believe in a school which is more free and more autonomous. Decentralisation of decisions is essential, since according to international experience, the more the decision-making centre is the same as the school's learning results are improved, and that is perfectly logical, since teachers and school staff are close to the students and are better aware of all the needs of the school and of the children. There will henceforth be: Free choice of books by teachers and digital use of all educational materials, in order to enable teachers to direct pupils to more sources, to give free choice to teachers and teachers as to how to evaluate their students, to decentralise the process of approving educational programmes, as well as to strengthen the role of director and teachers in positions of responsibility I would like here to mention that the Director of the Greek School has the fewest responsibilities than the managers in all countries of the European Union. At the same time, support bodies are being introduced at school. These include mentors, who will be responsible for assisting young teachers in their integration into the educational community, interconnectors with apprenticeships, as well as inter-school coordinators who will have a supervisory role as to how the material is progressing in each class. But let us move on to the second pillar of the bill, namely the establishment of an evaluation mechanism for the work of teachers and teachers as a mechanism for improving and strengthening them. All of us must understand that the evaluation of teachers and their work is by no means punishable. On the contrary, it is a good opportunity for recognition, but also for the improvement of their work. At the same time, it is certain that through it the educational function and quality of the courses provided will be significantly improved. No educational system, like any system in general, can be improved if it is not evaluated first if its positive points and points for which there is room for improvement are not recorded. Indeed, for the first time, it is proposed in this bill and the evaluation of our educational system by establishing a diagnostic mechanism, the so-called "Greek PISA", at the end of primary and high school. I would like to point out here that the assessment only in our country gives us so many debates, 90% of the education systems of the other European countries have been common practice for many years. Finally, the third pillar of this legislation seeks to strengthen education structures to best support autonomous school. Among other things, specific responsibilities are placed on the quality supervisors of education for the monitoring of the educational work and the new programmes that are part of schools and emphasised on the psycho-emotional development of pupils by the setting up of a thousand hundred organic posts for psychologists and social workers in our schools. I would like to remind you here that school-leaving consultants were enacted last year. I would also remind you that most psychologists, social workers of all recent years, were hired last year, as two thousand eight hundred jobs were opened. The skill workshops also started, which will be at every school in the country from September onwards. The workshops provide themes, such as respect for others and respect for diversity. In conclusion, I would like to say that this draft law introduces an organised system of church education aimed at upgrading the educational level of Clergy and continuing to streamline the country's academic map. The Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs attempts to modernise and organize fully and on a new basis secondary, postgraduate and higher church education. Ladies and gentlemen, our country needs a modern, worthwhile and creative secondary education that has nothing to be jealous of in the international environment, an education that will be strengthened by new, permanent human resources. Already, as you know, last year we moved on to the first in the history of the country four and a half thousand permanent appointments through ADP in special education and education. With regard to this year, we committed ourselves to five thousand two hundred and fifty permanent appointments to general education. Instead of those we had announced, we are conducting in the next few weeks eleven thousand seventeen hundred permanent appointments to general education. These are the first permanent appointments to be made after twelve years. And above all, we need an education that will allow for the healthy development of our children's personality, skills and critical thinking, thereby ensuring them a better future. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u102	And we thank Mrs. Dunia. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance, Mr Vassilis Kokalis. Here, Mr. Red, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u103	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, before the government goes to a struggle to convince Greek society of the supposedly educational reform, I think it is important to present the plan for the safe opening of schools in September, to present to Greek society the mass test plan in schools, to present the plan for the restoration of school rooms, to present the plan for increasing school bus services, because otherwise, if it does not do so, if it does not take measures in time, we will unfortunately again talk about compulsory vaccinations, which the Prime Minister himself has spelled out today. Ladies and gentlemen, it is true that the bill finds good, pleasant words, such as 'autonomy', 'enhancement of autonomy', as is the word 'assessment', but behind the word 'autonomy' and 'enhancement of autonomy', the government's intention to take out the State's obligation to finance public education from the centre is hidden. Ladies and gentlemen, instead of looking for new paths of knowledge for more and more of our young people, we, unfortunately, build guards to install the new police departments at universities, instead of really strengthening technical, technological and vocational education and not imagining technical and vocational education after the stage of failure as the poor relative, where failed students may be forced to drive. I shall refer to two points, first of all, in this very technical, vocational education and a flagrant injustice which has taken place under the law of the present government. Madam Minister, you have to accept the amendment we have tabled, which concerns the eighty-six thousand graduates of the OAED Schools and the eight thousand already attending this year. They degraded their degrees from the level '4' to the level '3' and the specific eight thousand students from September to early in time, while starting with a different legislative regime, while starting for secondary, higher secondary education, they suddenly saw their transfer to the level '3' in post-magnetic training completely unjustified, illegal and abusive. You must, if you respect, and if you honour what is called the 'law state', immediately restore this injustice - I repeat - thousands of our young people, young people who have preferred, who have chosen technical education. Minimum import base: There is a lot of talk about polling. The basic arguments on which the minimum import base was established: The previous government has allowed children to be introduced into the HEIs with a '0.6', inaccurate. Imported under "4" were few, below 0.3% and usually from specific categories of candidates. Second argument: every year it graduates only 9% of students. I'm sorry, whoever hears that will only say 9%? Make it as hard as possible! Inaccurate. From OECD figures in 2018 in Greece it is expected to receive a diploma at the age of thirty to 38% of the student population. Average of twenty-nine OECD countries: 30.5%. Three: A great multitude of eternal students. According to EUROSTAT data announced for 2020, the proportion of students aged eighteen to twenty-four who have left the university was less than 4%, the second lowest among thirty European countries. With such arguments you have established a single import base. You will only allow me two examples and the conclusions are in Greek society and the Greek people, but also in the thousands of students who have been excluded. Natural Athens: One candidate wrote "10" Mathematics, "8" Physics, "20" Chemistry, "20" Language. Average ‘14,5’. This candidate has succeeded. Other candidates: in Mathematics ‘15’, in Physics ‘20’, in Chemistry ‘11’, in Language ‘11’. It's cut. It was unfair and you're doing it. We defend the student who, in order to write "20" and to want to go to Natural Athens, means that he was his first, the basic choice, that he wants to, that he is his little one. And yet he's cut. And you blame us for populism. Example 2: Athens Mathematics. First candidate: in Mathematics "5", in Physics "15", in Chemistry "20", in Language "18". It worked. Second candidate: in Mathematics '20', in Physics '15', in Chemistry '11', in Language '11'. It's cut. It was unfair and you're doing it. Unfortunately there is a lot of talk wrong and wrong about excellence. The best must be able to claim it without exception. Not to demolition, however, so as to benefit more. I repeat: the best must be able to claim it without exception. But not demolition so that more can be made possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u104	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs Kallipe Vetta.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u105	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the New Democracy wing]] [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, for two years now there has been an informal competition between the ministers of the New Democracy about who will testify to the hardest neoliberal and conservative measures, with a clear class mark, which will affect the core of the social state and individual and labour rights. Competition is tough. Since the eight-hour abolition, the payment by way of the day and the reduction of overtime compensation, the reduction of demonstrations and police rule, the abolition of mere proportional and democratic gains, and even the attack on artists and culture, there is a wide range of Tropical competitors for the most inspiring expressor of the government. However, in the field of education, we have a strong candidacy for this envious title which today puts another stone in its efforts. To be more specific. The bill we are discussing introduces a vertical hierarchical structure with full compliance with the top-level requirements, which destroys the democratic character of the school. The school club loses its basic responsibilities, which are transferred to the manager, the school advisor and the regional director, thus creating a strict and bureaucratic model, over-concentration of powers against pluralism and democracy. Teachers must keep a fish silence in school so that they do not jeopardise an unfavourable crisis which will inevitably increase within the school unit, while at the same time incurring a titanic struggle of molecules and management that will inevitably get them off their pedagogical obligations. At the same time, a punishing assessment comes through the window. In what way? It is clear that anyone who objects to the way in which the evaluation measure is implemented is at risk of being paid and educated. As we have already pointed out, evaluation is a necessary process, but it requires the provision of appropriate means as well as the clarification of a transparent roadmap that includes only the training and support of teachers and not the fear, vengeance and punishment. Only in this way can evaluation be effective and fair. At this point, by changing focus, I have to make a critical assessment of the measure of the minimum import base perhaps the most neoliberal and classic measure seen by Greek education, a measure that was implemented with schools closed in a period of pandemic and incomplete schooling which was examined, but which had not been taught many vacancies of teachers. The result is clear. Approximately thirty-five thousand examiners will stay out of universities, twenty thousand posts will remain empty, and even students who wrote very well because of this year's specificities will not be introduced into their preference schools. So it is a glorious field for private colleges that you have enjoyed professional rights within one night in December 2020. I imagine their owners will return the help you gave them. Although many examples have been recorded about the injustice of the minimum import base, the percentages of central and regional schools, the performance of special courses, etc., I would like to add one which has not been heard very much, but is an indication of the indifference and indifference with which you legislate for the future of children. Madam Minister, listen, a candidate for the higher schools of science in Physical Education, which is a champion, for example, of fighting or archery, was due until last year, in addition to his academic performance, to exceed the limits of the racing tests that have been in place for years. With the current system of introduction it depends on the average performance, but it is now determined by the high performance of track and swimming athletes - they are the sports in question - resulting in athletes, even champions of other races, being shortened and left off the final list, even though they may have written very well and obviously have a very good physical situation. At the same time, I must point out that the molecules of distinguished athletes and athletes who have achieved significant international discrimination are not integrated, which excludes them from claiming schools with higher molecules, even though they are entitled to it. And here's injustice, indifference, clandestineness and wrong messages. This is in short the success of the minimum import base for which the Greek society reasonably deplores you to an overwhelming extent. We from SYRIZA have committed ourselves that we will immediately abolish this anti-democratic and class measure, while, in order to inform those who are listening to us, with amendments we have tabled, we call for the immediate suspension of the application of the minimum import base, the abolition of the topic bank, the introduction of pupils and students who have lost their parents from COVID, the abolition of the possible reduction in funding by 20% in the HEIs, the right to be seconded to all teachers with a disability rate of 67% or more, as well as the upgrading of the diplomas of the apprentices' schools. In conclusion, since in a few weeks' time the schools are opening up, I should like to point out that you should finally present us with the measures you will take to prevent the spread of the pandemic from the fall. Last July you were the first to serve your donors, the large private schools, and we and your scientific community pointed out the dangers of a second wave. The results are well-known: closed schools for months, inability to access telecommunications, masks - balloons and so many others that caused the remembrance of Greek citizens. So we expect to see if at least this year you have learned the lesson. Ladies and gentlemen, in the fight for the best expression of neoliberal policies, at the same time that they are disapproved internationally, the Ministry of Education is in the first place. However, in society these views have already been rejected, as anger has been turned into reversal. The patience reserves are over, as all the quality measurements of the public show, and I believe that the clay is now empty. We therefore call on every student, every parent and teacher, each citizen to intensify this disapproval, to turn the anger into a struggle so that soon these anachronistic methods become past, for a school which is truly autonomous, independent and democratic, for a school of equal opportunities, which will also help the student and the student with cognitive shortcomings, as well as his classmate or classmate with special skills and a performance, for a school of justice, solidarity and pluralism, for the school that deserves our children. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u106	The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Constantine Bluchos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u107	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, mobility is an enthusiastic one, especially if one considers that it is the Minister of an area that suffers from a constant 'nothing' political interest, but where everything is sprinkling into a deadly spiritual and ideological menopause. In July 2019, the New Democracy became a government with a basic promise of universal education mobility. So let us come to the bill of changes and your criticisms and unbearable dull repetitions. And you start your monotonous left arguments: "It is the problem of social, economic and capitalist systems and the vehicle of this neoliberal right" and you are trying to drive the few naives into unnecessary misunderstandings. I applaud the bishop designations: "New liberal corsets the bill", "evaluating the bill", "proceedings of colleges and private entrepreneurs", "debt pedagogical perceptions of a neoliberal market-based school", "slaughtering of infants and children", "inspection, which makes the school director, dictator, "training club", "training elitistism", "false excellence" and all of this. And all these designations, ladies and gentlemen, are at the outset stumbling down in the masturbation of the analysis of left-hand undeterminedness. Mastonic, because in our revolved complexity this reduction in the unit is rather outrageous. To understand something, ladies and gentlemen, let us agree. You can't, for any reason and in no way, guide reality. Despite the hard efforts of the left for so many decades, she always has to guide you, hence the fertility of the government's effort, because that reality guides us. All that you say for once again in a bill of education for our government is threatening the schools of equality and freedom that you built? Here is the perversion of your educational zeroing, because if we don't see the long-term pathogens and the damage you have caused, the worst nightmares will come to life. Ladies and gentlemen, the prerequisite for equality and democracy is a culture of common sense. The only weapon that our democracy needs at the level of education is to evaluate and judge. On the contrary, a delusional democracy, in which you confess, is probably devastating. And no, it wasn't always the Left in Greece! Unfortunately, however, some of her politicians, not following the evolution of the world that is changing, have stayed in their party and ideological thermostats, unable to grow and offer what they had to themselves. What we have seen was the result of the weakness of their weaning. It was not contrary to the draft law of Kerameos, but deepest despair and insecurity! The characters shown by this theatre of political irrationalism are for reflection, not for word-on-democracy and because it was suggested that with them it seems psychosociative what kind of people make up the government, without, of course, giving clear direction, I wonder on the same terms: what range of psychosomatic definitions does it cover them, that is, you, who were trapped in visions of dark-minded and inexcusable shades of left-hand symbols? And I wonder: Can't you recognize the lack of feedback in education, stagnation and demolition? Not infertility of counterproposals but sterile criticism and unreasonable and blind revolutionism and scavenge and child-blocking. You say, "promote," you prophesy new demons, you are astronomical, and you have not wondered why, in your "infinite wisdom", you have become self-sufficient in your pastoral left anger. And when will this fraud of the social and economic indicators of education and the unfair neoliberal society continue and this fraud of wrestling and false revolution? And your true education that we all wait for and move to come and all debris are lost in the spin of the circles! Man goes ahead and is judged by practice, not by theory. From the means, not from the purposes. It speaks of the "different action of the meditative adjustments" of Kavafi rather than of spasms of revolutionary or historical philosophies or tense slogans. "We don't like it, Alexis?" which says one of your operatives, looking at a poll where your voters are ahead of you, patiently accepting what the Minister is doing in her bill. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill aspires to make the school more effective. Effective public free school means democracy and social mobility. I shall mention this with a relevant personal reference. I owe my teacher, Mr. Theophilus and my teachers - I will not mention so many names - what I have done, what I have done and what I have achieved in medicine and in public life. Let us understand something about the basic necessity of education. On the voyage of training, as long as they teach you swimming and have as a beacon of destinations. I can't do better than that. The sole institution of the Greek state that can achieve such social leaps of citizens is education, satisfying dreams that require continuous educational friction and evaluation. That presupposes the principle that nothing is pleasing, but everything is a matter of being conquested. The present is seeking to make the school again efficient, modern, democratic, effective. And in order to do so, such staffing, training and constant encouragement are needed. Education is with health the greatest gifts of life. Public goods and benefits. The current government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis, from the years of the rethinking of its course and ideas, as a Dedicated Opposition, has set itself as a goal to unleash this wind of hope. And the time has come for us to do what we have seen. I urge everyone to vote with us this bill. And for those who are ironic and violently shouting and following the example of the chosen friend Klonas who gave his speech the masterpiece of Kostas Virvos, composed by Yiannis Markopoulos, I think the conclusion of George Seferis in his "Daily Elistasis" gives strength to the leadership of the Ministry of Education and to those who believe in these changes: "You were talking about things that were not seen and they were laughing. But shine on the dark river over water, go on the missing road to blind, stubborn, and look for words rooted like the long-grown lion tree. Let them laugh. And wish that the other world would live in today's drowning loneliness in this perishable present. Let them go. The sea wind and the coolness of the dawn exist for everyone without anyone asking for it." Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u108	Thank you, too. The speaker of SYRIZA now has the floor - a Progressive Alliance Mrs Theanoo Fotio.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u109	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the country has never lived through such a distortion and abuse of the institution of the pan-Hellenic examinations, such abuse of candidates and their parents in times of regularity. We have applied an unprecedented system in the pandemic. The core of his arrest is the reduction of importers and you did it. One-third of the kids who gave tests won't get into the foundations. You have implemented a system unique throughout Europe and America, which has achieved impossible. To leave vacant posts in public universities. You left thousands of spaces empty. Tell us, Minister, where you are and have gone to these universities, have you seen a European university or American that leaves vacant posts? One! Tell me. You told us that the Greek people do not want their children to enter with '2' and '3'. How many got ‘2’ and ‘3’? Tell the Greek people. How many more than '10' and didn't come in? Tell the Greek people. How many people got close to '10' and didn't come in? Tell the Greek people. You know very well that the same child with the same themes, in the same lesson, depending on the convenience and difficulty of the courses, can once take over the base and the other way down. You may not know that. The country has never survived such a distortion and abuse of the institution of the pan-Hellenics, to exclude the perfect ones from their first and second choice. So, let me tell you what the great candidate from Patras says. I thought it would be enough to write 'excellent' lessons and pass the '10 base', which last year did not even exist in special courses. But why did I remain for 0.62 units excluded from all Architecture schools except Ioannina? Check this out. However, the country has not experienced such misinformation and lies from you, Minister. The low level of importers is accountable for the low graduation rate. Actually, it graduates 43.7%. That's a second lie. The foundations put a special class cutter. Today, the Prime Minister did not dare. Why do you say all these days? He was not put on the cutter by the foundations, you put him, Mrs. Kerameau, when you told them that in special courses the grade of the contestants will be averaged and then they will be able to hold that average. That was their choice, 20% more or 20% less. That's a third lie. They abandon their studies, the weakest invaders. They don't give up their studies, because they're overreacting the degree. Because they know the degree is their passport so they don't get into poverty and unemployment, as I'll tell you. However, I can assure you that the degrees of introduction into the two projects do not define and promote the performance of students within the school, nor how good architects will become. Do you know what determines their performance? The teacher-teacher ratio. The smaller the ratio, the more and better the graduates. What are you doing? Even the special teaching staff EDPS who improved that ratio, that is, people with PhD, are now exempted from teaching. You want to make them do the managers. It's inappropriate. You appoint police officers instead of university teachers, raise children to school classes, to succeed - says - better education in the free school that has been released. What? What you raised the children's classes instead of minimizing them? The only distortion of the institution of the pan-Hellenic examinations has cause. The invaders will be reduced to find customers in colleges. There's no need for special or general bases only to pay. Graduates will be reduced because they are more expensive on the labour market and Mr Pissaridis wants cheap co-operation. They're overwhelming ELSTAT's data. The risk of poverty for private graduates is 20%, i.e. one out of five, while the tertiary is 7.3%, one out of fifteen. Does that mean anything to you? The Greek family is right to invest in higher education and in the knowledge of its children. Require if you think it'll reward you because you left thirty thousand out. Ladies and gentlemen, I have taught forty years at the School of Architectures of the National Technical University and at very important schools abroad. With this knowledge and experience, I can assure you, firstly, that nowhere does this twisted logic system implemented by you this year, after a year and a half of pandemic. I can assure you, secondly, that at any of the architectural schools in Greece they never entered children with a general rating under the base. Never! Thirdly, I can assure you that the duration of each student's studies does not depend on its high and low degrees in introductorys. It depends, first, on whether he needs to work to live. Secondly, it depends on whether he wishes to achieve high yields as a head office for future postgraduate degrees. Thirdly, it depends on how deeply he wishes to conquer knowledge and as a result the best students at the School of Architectures of the NGO end their studies in more time. You know that? Did you ever hear that the perfect ones are doing more years to finish? Fourthly, I can assure you that our students are looking for the most important universities in Europe and America. I can assure you that how good a student or scientist one becomes does not depend on his performance in the pan-Hellenics. But pan-Hellenics can assure you that they can become the nightmare of their lives, the nightmare of rejection, wake up in the evening with this dream, with this nightmare. You can do that, Mrs. Keramos, for one third of the candidates. This year, in 2021, we'll all remember. The fairy tales of prosperity, progress, worthyness are over. You are the epitome in the education of the Right of '50s, conservation and authoritarianism combined with liberalism, commemorative cheques and interests, ideology and interests that brings the most outdated and undemocratic in the education that the place has known. We are committed, and our President Alexis Tsipras has said so, to cancel the effects of your actions once the people have called us to rule. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u110	Thank you, too. The speaker now has the floor, Mr Fotini Bakada.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u111	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, this is not the first time, and I very much fear that it is not the last one to discuss another bill proposed by the Minister of Education, which instead of strengthening education and education in our country, is making sure that it is further degraded. In addition to the principle of governance of the country by New Democracy - or to be clearer than "Metsotakis S.A." - we had a series of legislation aimed at fully reforming the educational framework to the worst, though. We haven't seen one step of improvement. We have seen the gradual autocracy and full commercialisation indirectly or directly. We started by seeing the abolition of university asylum, the establishment of university police, the deterioration of public vocational education, which, in essence, puts our youth into the arms of private IEKs. The minimum import base with exactly the same results was followed today in the bill we have been discussing since yesterday and indeed has as its main objective and ultimate objective the depreciation of the public school. But let us be honest, it is not personal, it is not personal, it is not just the Minister's, Mrs Keramea. What the Minister is doing is enthusiasticly and in an exemplary way to implement the policy that the governments of the New Democracy have been trying to impose over the last forty years. It is an extremely toxic and classic policy, which has as its primary concern to exclude from public education the children of poor and medium-sized households, especially from higher education, and to transform the overall education process into a specific market where schools who are and friends of the government, the ruling party, will have the opportunity to use the favourable field created to increase their profits, moving in an entirely privileged field of enrichment. The toxic perception of the head of the Ministry of Education has shown in the most glaring way in the old article 85 of the legislation under discussion, an article that has been withdrawn, but yet the will to institutionalise what was foreseen does not change. As I am also sure that you will later bring it back as an article in another bill or in the form of an amendment, such as the 'Metsotakis S.A.' government has all used us to these two years. But what did the article in question provide for? The separation of school departments according to the performance of pupils and not alphabetical, as is the case over the years. A separation that, if continued and completed, would lead to the creation of a multi-speed school. After all, care for your bill is to create a multi-speed school, the separation you tried to impose was another lever of pressure in this direction. The so-called anti-educational provision that came to a complete contrast in every sense of inclusion, in every sense of equality, in every sense of thinking and care for the student, and indeed within a bill that you want to show that it comes to upgrade the school with an upgrade that you saw as being introduced through the separation of pupils into departments with general or specific criteria, favouring exclusively the excellent, in complete contrast to any guidelines for a holistic approach to education, in full contrast to any concept of equality. Although, as I said, this article was removed, your intention cannot be overlooked. It is there, it is there, and its removal itself is a government alibi to the completely authoritarian legislation that ignores all stakeholders and all the proposals they make. The New Democracy's concept of education and education generally reveals a point - point, article - Article, period - of the bill even those that might be considered a good idea. Such an example is the provision for the multiple book, for the practical function of which, and for the dangers of its application, a great debate has begun. In an already class-corrected education that is inequality, with the sterile meltdown of matter being at the centre of the educational process and with the blows achieved by the New Democracy Government in important pieces of the curriculum, mainly in theoretical and sociological subjects, even a good idea is difficult to blossom, especially when the New Democracy of Kyriakos Mitsotakis is going to apply it. Both the multiple book and the digital library of teaching books maintain and enhance inequalities in education, as there is inequality in access to digital media needed for the implementation and use of the digital library. An inequality that exists not only between school groups of a region or the capital and the region but even among the pupils themselves. We became witness to this bitter truth all of us during the pandemic period when we were listening when we received complaints and complaints for children who were unable to attend telephony. How, then, are children who until now had to go to taverns, cafes, places that they could use, even in neighboring homes in order to have access to telecommunications, how can they now use the digital library and the predictions of your bill? It's clear - and I'm closing up with it - that you don't care about students. Your only goal is to install another class division in education. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen of the Couple, finally understand something you refuse to do. Refugee to see two years now, ostriching. With every blow to education, work and health, you do not put the foundations for a better 21st century Greece. Instead, you are turning away from society, you are turning the entire Greek people against you. Citizens are sure to react even when you legislate in the middle of summer and in the middle of a pandemic. And that's not the first time you've done it. Madam Minister, you did this last year. You will find the Greeks united toward you. They will abolish your legislation and then you will understand how far you have removed from society and how many signatures you have placed in your divorce from democracy and from the citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u112	The speaker of the New Democracy, Christina Alexopoulou, has the floor. I have the honour to inform the House that the Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Digital Governance: "Modernisation of the Greek Stock Exchange, new digital services and strengthening digital governance". Mrs Alexopoulou, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u113	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the government and the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for once only legislate deliberately, boldly to heal problems and passionate decades. Once again, you are across the street without suggestions but with cries and chips to level education, for a party state in education, for the targeting of teachers and for laundry. You have the nerve to raise our fingers at the same time as your Chief attempts to take the most unacceptable consideration with the young. Unthinkingly and without any humiliation, he is stumbling over the agony, the concerns of the young children, and he is feeding them the unheard: that if you come to the government you will enter everyone in the universities. In what process, under which criteria? Which one? Everybody? When are you going to be a government again? Then you'd like to put these children's children in campus? Because I see you're late to rule again. Shame on you, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA. Shame on you! It is of course a feature of all the culture that holds you and the gap that separates us. Your mentality, that is, for a downward equation. The hatred of your excellence and your love for the minimal effort. The point, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, is not to go to college is to get out. There's no point in importing if you don't have the equipment to finish studying. Why get locked up for years in a process that won't give you the required advances in your life? Aren't there any other successful and profitable careers to follow? It would be easy for us in Achaea to say "Fill the universities, Minister, and the schools with thousands of students, let them come and make their money and see later". But we prefer to be beneficial rather than enjoyable. We give multiple outlets so that every young man can find his own way of developing his skills, realising his ambitions and making use of his country and society as a whole. You obviously prefer to keep our young people in universities waste their time, money and their dreams. Ladies and gentlemen, if I had to describe the bill with two words, that would be autonomy and evaluation. These two cities are interconnected and ensure that our teachers can develop their creativity and initiative while being evaluated and trained. We promote a new philosophy decentralised and free, which takes away responsibilities from the Ministry and gives them to schools and teachers who are well acquainted with their work and our children. Is it possible for us elected, parliamentarians and ministers to know better than they are how the education, examination and evaluation of pupils should be carried out? Definitely not. The closer the learner decisions are taken the better the results will be. We give the power to our teachers, to those who really know the students firsthand and know their needs, I want them and their skills. We trust them every day with our children. We trust them to train them. Our autonomy and trust is accompanied by increased accountability and an assessment at every stage, every tier and every post. And you are coming again, ladies, to raise the axe of war and put your favorite red lines at the same time as the teachers themselves do not set red lines. Where is there no evaluation? The private employee is constantly assessed by his employer. The businessman from his clients. Shoppers from their consumers. We Members here are evaluated every day by our fellow citizens. And as engineer, I assure you I'm judged for every study, every design, every construction. In the end, each one of us also evaluates himself to see his mistakes in correcting them. How else do we get better? So here we introduce a positive evaluation with a characterly enhancer not punishable. An evaluation that leads to the training, correction, that is, of any weak points that will ultimately lead the teacher to a much better next evaluation. We invite you to leave your outdated reactionary intentions and move forward together to the future. Ladies and gentlemen, my little daughter, four years old, will be in a modernly upgraded kindergarten with activities in English with skill workshops, with many and interesting stimuli for her open-minded mind. It will continue in primary and high school to listen to its criticism with new curricula, with many writings, with new technologies and infrastructure, with teachers and teachers with a reinforced role and modern training that will guide her daily to make her better with many education and training paths to follow in her life what, in fact, will make her happy. This is the school we envision where we plan for creating for all the children of Greece. We move on to this, along with the great majority of the Greeks. Society is with us in these reforms. The three hundred comments in the consultation and the constructive contribution of operators of certain parties mentioned prove this. It also makes this quite clear, of course, and the recent survey showing great social convergence among SYRIZA voters. Whether you want to understand it or not you turn your back even your voters. It's a lonely road you've chosen. The whole of Greece is ready for substantial changes and this government is ready to implement them. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u114	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. The speaker of the Movement of Change, Mr Michael Katrinis, now has the floor. Mr. Catarini, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u115	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, the government increased the minimum wage by 2% at the same time as there was an increase of 12% in commodity prices and 25% in fuel. These are increases that reduce the purchasing power of the working consumer, in a country where the minimum wage purchasing power is the fifth lowest in the European Union. The minimum wage should be the result of the consultation of the social partners through the National General Labour Convention. Of course, how to expect an institutional dialogue on minimum wages when there has not been an institutional dialogue nor in the bill we are discussing, a dialogue with all the training factors, with wider consensus and not obviously with barren conflicts. The debate so far has shown that the government has not realised the need for political consensus on such an important issue as the future of our children, since together with SYRIZA it has chosen to transform this essential - at least as it should be - into a debate on a field of debate only for impression and only to obtain micro-political benefits. We should therefore speak of policies based on scientific data, policies which are constantly being evaluated, policies that have long-term planning and not initiatives that take the character of a personal bet on the respective political leadership of the Ministry of Education or a party in the government. Unfortunately, for today's debate, but even more unfortunate about the country's educational system, none of these elements characterise this bill. And what are the characteristics of this bill very briefly? Firstly, it is followed by the previous government's centralist anaesthetic logic, which acts in intervention and control in the exercise of educational policy, aimed at suffocating education officials and administration, since the reform of the Minister does not in practice confer substantial responsibilities on regional directorates and education directorates, does not promote flexible and articulated curriculum programmes, it does not encourage initiatives that will creatively link school units to local communities, it does not contain good practices that have already been in place for several years in other countries, such as streamlining of timetables, changing teaching methodology, strengthening digital school, there is no real decentralisation of competences or transfer from the Ministry to the administration of education. On the contrary, too many persons, such as the training director and the school director, are being claimed, with school function degrading to the altar of the administrative application of the measures. Secondly, the question of evaluation in education is coming back, and I imagine that no one in this Chamber can disagree as the most important factor in the functioning of the educational system remains the teacher himself. That is why it should be assessed without exceptions, no one can think that it should be excluded from this process, as an essential condition for evaluation and improvement of the overall education system. We are talking about an evaluation linked to the assessment of the overall work of the school unit, which will aim at how the teacher improves the learning of his pupils, how it contributes to improving the educational work of the school unit where he works and ultimately how he develops himself professionally. And here comes the third important point of the bill: the total absence of a coherent framework for the training of teachers. And we are not talking about extractive educational initiatives, such as participation in educational programmes organised by universities through lifelong learning centres. It is truly worth wondering how the Ministry over the past few years has not been interconnected so that it can have a collective and coherent educational framework and is now left to each teacher's will. It needs a centrally structured educational system with structures and infrastructures, which does not have the Institute for Education Policy, with an operational framework and a clear target that supports the introduction of educational innovations and the vocational development of teachers. Without this framework, any evaluation will remain a blank letter, while administrative and educational function will fall short. Of course, we should also mention positive points in the bill such as the reintroduction of the mentor and the topic bank, the multiple book, the improvement of the framework of education. Of course, there is also a positive point in strengthening and organising special education and teaching support through the establishment of multidisciplinary evaluation, advisory and support centres. But in fact, Minister, we had discussed this a year ago, you say in Article 11 for the drafting of the evaluation report for pupils in public and private education. Have you ensured as a political leadership that a child with development disorder or who is in the range of autism can attend the program of a private training course while supporting or supporting teaching based on specific educational needs? And I am not talking about the dimension that the Ministry does not provide the parallel support to the child for what he wants to study at a private school, but about the strategy of private education that excludes these children and the possibility of parallel support for incomprehensible educational reasons that turn us back many years. And because I had raised it to you a year ago exactly, I would bring it back today. You must intervene as political leadership and oblige private schools to apply the same rules of access to education for children who have learning difficulties, as is the case with the public school. Ladies and gentlemen, the reformist part of the Ministry of Education's political leadership is unfortunately exhausted in communication strategy and slogans leaving practically. We saw this on the subject of university asylum, which ended a year after the establishment of the university police, and we see it on the minimum basis of introduction leading to thousands of students outside university education, without doubt also putting in place several sections, especially in regional universities. We in Elias Prefecture experienced this "reform" firsthand. While you promised reforms and evaluations of parts throughout the country on the basis of rationalisation and academic criteria, this assessment has never been carried out. What happened? Just a section. The University of Patras proposed abolishing two departments in the Prefecture of Ilias, after the same university it is recommended that students be introduced for this year and on the date of the communication of the computerised document decides the same university for roaming the departments recommended to have them entered this year. Of course, because you said that you respected university departments' recommendations, I have in front of me the draft presidential decree you have sent to the University of Patras. In Article 6, while the senate first decided to move the Department of History - Archaeology from Agrinio to Patras and the Physiotherapy Department from Agios in Patras, you say that these changes can be implemented by ministerial decision. So you also turn this into your own decision in the future. This is respect for the autonomy of university institutions. At the same time - and I conclude, Mr President, I shall only refer to the Department of Music, which brought together the Minis­ters of the Ministry and of the circles in the public debate - you are abolishing a section that would have a hundred and fifty entrants this year. And while the winter semester was not found teachers in order to establish the need to abolish them, in the spring semester as by magic, teachers and credits were found for the new academic year have been found and a solution to the administrative support of the department is being sought, then a holiday. But you will have to find the transitional operation of the section by 2024 and not in 2022, as is provided for in the draft Presidential Decree, which also contains a question of constitutionality, if not a review of the decision. The bill may seem to show acceptance to the public, through the communication superpower that this government has, but I fear it will not be able to overturn the existing situation because it is management level, without a substantial reform strategy and without a target, since the government is content with the modestity of the result it achieves, does not seem to want to make substantial reforms to strengthen the education process and does not seem to want to strengthen education and research capacity in the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u116	Thank you. The speaker of the New Democracy, Mr Dimitrios Vartzopoulos, now has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u117	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, former ministers, ladies and gentlemen, this bill is indeed an innovative draft law, a bill that runs into the experience of the past, the wisdom of today creates the best conditions for even more radical innovations in the near future. Two are the paths of progress that opens. One is evaluation both individually and collectively, and the other is personalized, the self-determination of the educational unit. As far as evaluation is concerned, the criteria are actually detailed and correctly described, so reliable. However, they do not cease to be, ladies and gentlemen, only severely quality. I think it is time to move forward and try to give a quantitative dimension to these evaluation criteria. It is not just the issue of graduation reliability, it is also the fact that a quantitative assessment, apart from being fair to the existing ones, also gives the ability of the administration's supreme self-control at all levels, from the least to that of the Minister, up to the entire Ministerial Council. So, ladies and gentlemen, we really need the wonderful KPIs, i.e. indicators, key performance indicators that are linked to quantitative targets, which will result from the governmental targets and, of course, from the current needs and disadvantages of our system. Such objectives could be the following. Firstly, the reduction of the most serious disadvantage in the Greek education system - the Prime Minister said so - the bad performance of pupils. We saw in the latest assessment of the International Student Assessment Programme, PISA, that in 2018, the proportion of Greek students with a performance score, ranking them at the two highest level of literacy 5 and 6, in one of the three cognitive objects, i.e. mathematics, natural sciences, understanding of text, skills of the world, is only 6.2% compared with 15.7% of the OECD average. In addition, the proportion of Greek students with a performance ranking at the two lower levels of literacy, 1a and 1b in all cognitive objects, is unfortunately 19.9% compared to only 13.4% of OECD. You can understand, ladies and gentlemen, that these differences are very important and very dramatic, and so are the inequalities. Look out! In Greece 8% of students from - to say it elegantly - favourable socio-economic environments achieve the highest distinction in understanding text compared with only 1% of those from non-favourable. The corresponding percentages in the OECD are 17% and 3%. Here, then, are specific quantitative objectives to reduce inequalities and increase the yields of pupils. The second way could relate to one of the main structural problems of our educational system, the small degree of choice of technical education, which of course also has to do with all the preparation of the student in basic education, its appreciation and support. This could be done, of course, and possibly through skill workshops. The Minister rightly said that Greece worldwide is the first country with the highest percentage of the population in higher education institutions. We all know that one of the biggest obstacles to changing the country's productive model is the failure to find skilled technical staff. Here, then, is another quantitative objective, to increase the current 28% of those who choose technical training to the European term of 48%. And here is a KPI, the degree and speed of this change and this pursuit. Let me now, ladies and gentlemen, just raise an issue which I consider to be extremely important. The personalised approach of the educational unit and the opportunity for it to draw up its own educational programmes, in accordance with its specific circumstances, in conjunction with Article 89 which provides for the creation and operation of educational groups, gives a unique opportunity to tackle this problem of our educational system - which, if not in the world, makes it unique in Europe - the misconduct, ladies and gentlemen, that is to say, the education centres. How many of the Greek children, after basic education, don't spend the whole of their free time attending schools, especially or organized? What are their peers doing in Europe? What are the psychological long-term consequences of this whole process, the unilateral formation of adolescence in later life? How much of the available family income develops in this process? What is the impact on the famous PPP, the equivalent purchasing power of the Greek household in relation to the European average? Ladies and gentlemen, I think it is time for our political system, with the greatest possible consensus, to tackle and find solutions for the integration of the school activities into the full-day school service. We could do this in obscure ways, hiring more substitutes. But I think we deserve braver solutions. We could, for example, proceed to work contracts with private-law natural and legal persons and the costs of sharing and taking advantage of the parents' association, where of course absolute state care will be taken for the weak. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill opens the way. Let's walk them bravely. Let us not leave the solution to the major problems of our education today in the generations of tomorrow. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u118	We are also grateful to Mr Varzopoulou and to him for the consistency in time. Before I summon the SYRIZA MEP - the Progressive Alliance, Mr Jakri, to inform you that tonight we will finish the eighth cycle, in particular, until Mrs Constantina Adamou. It will stay until tomorrow the ninth cycle with natural presence and the next with webex.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u119	What time are we going to finish, Mr President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u120	The time cannot be calculated, ladies and gentlemen. What can I say? Say nine, ten, eleven? You can do the calculation on your own, so I don't officially say it and get out. The time is seven minutes, which is not respected, and so I cannot say the time. I'm informing you that we're going to get to Mrs. Constantina Adamou, completing the eighth cycle. And tomorrow the opening of the sitting is at 10 a.m. Mrs Theodora Jackris has the floor from the SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u121	Ladies and gentlemen, from the bill we are discussing today, which is supposed to raise the public school, Mrs Keramea is missing a basic parameter, and that is no other than the reintroduction of the school to all levels of education from kindergarten to university. It is so progressive and modernistic that the bill is what I really wonder for itself that this large section has escaped from the Minister. I am not concerned, however, because I believe that a little further, perhaps with a new amendment, the government of the finest will bring this very important reform. Otherwise, this bill has all the political choices that turn us back at least one century. The ideal school for Mrs. Kerameos is the school of the school director with the vase, which abolishes every concept of pedagogical method. What do I mean by that? That the reintroduction of the conduct, administration instead of pedagogicalism, where the school director will do what he wants with the inspector's friend, who substitutes for any sense of serious evaluation, along with the abolition of sociology and the deterioration of social studies as a whole, show the most authoritarian and darkening face of the education policy pursued by this government. Its aim is not to affect the public university with its pure initiative to reduce its scientific value. The minimum import base, as proved in reality by the application of the Kerameos rule, did not exclude the student of the white glue from the university, as the Minister constantly lies, but the aristocrat. The extremists who were excluded this year under the minimum Kerameau base are extremist examples of an unjust and exterminating educational policy, with elements of unprecedented hardness, irrationalism and anti-educational effects. There is no precedent in the world history of education where the responsible political leader of it is so fiercely attacked at the same time against the student community, students, university teachers and the most basic educational and educational acquisitions that are a key expression of the modern social state. Those who are ultimately excluded from the minimum base of Kerameos are many excellences, even some who wrote more than twenty thousand molecules, who, of course, addressed to the relevant Minister for Public and Repeal, calling on her to function with common sense so that she does not ultimately exclude them from the universities and to whom Mrs Keramos replied hardly, saying that they would not even last year, in other words, play with the strengths of the educational community as if she were her natural enemy. Instead of doing the obvious and abolishing the minimum Kerameou base which, as a whole, - the New Democracy Government - leaves out of the university some twenty-five thousand students, including the excellence as I said before, and rejoices that all of them will never become academic citizens but be channelled to private training centres and dubious quality colleges on the pretext of their inappropriate admission to higher education. Ladies and gentlemen, I know that with what I say the Minister seems to be flattered, because the purpose has been achieved. Twenty-five thousand students outside higher education mean they have to pay the expensive tuition fees for two and three and four years at franchising colleges instead of the free, qualitative, higher public higher education they have had so far. The public university is systematically and methodically overshadowed with the neoliberal minister, with the abolition of sections, a rapid deterioration in the directions of social sciences and measures to be taken to the detriment of university teachers from whom he asks within the summer and after three lockdowns, 20-year-olds leading them to the exit from the universities. And I'm not talking about the big lawyers and the big doctors. He's good for them. He's good for them. I refer to retired teachers of the TEI from whom you request retrospectively 20 years of age with the Public Revenue Collection Code in the summer as I said after the third lockdown. And I wonder if you know where this professor can find it, and if you know if he gets a pension of at least 800 euros. All this, ladies and gentlemen, is neither accidental nor symptomatic. It applies to a particular central political choice of the government, which devaluates the public quality university and replaces it with the superficial, sloppy training by education firms whose diplomas have been obtained by the Minister in a fictitious way to simulate them with the diplomas of the universities, without having previously ensured the conditions of their quality. There are no certified teachers, no approved curriculum programmes, there is no elementary effective administrative supervision in their operation, and there is no end, nor even the certification of academic performance of teaching staff and students attending them. One wonders whether the psychological interpretation of this academic attack at the public university is appropriate here. Really, what personal experiences can give rise to this unprecedented hostility against a successful public institution? What personal disapprovals, failure to introduce with the system of pan-Hellenics once or twice. Can this psychologically explain the irrational insistence on the implementation of a clearly destructive policy? Ladies and gentlemen, the Greek public university has proved in the most impressive way in the difficult years and in the most important schools, medical, legal, polytechnics, that the educational work is of the highest level and awarded high-ranking international market degrees. Do you know, Mrs. Keramos, how many thousands of doctors were embraced by the German health system and how many postgraduate students of the Greek public university and the polytechnic have distinguished teaching staff positions in universities around the world? So instead of your priority being the retrievation with the Brain gain of the flaw of the scientists that you, your party, the New Democracy has persecuted in the crisis, you are destroying the academic matrix that gave birth to these brilliant scientists. Ladies and gentlemen, with the combination of visas - discipline - school administration, the Minister of Education abolishes all the great teaching acquired by Georgios Papandreou and Papanuchos so far. It is obvious that Mrs Kerameou abolishes teaching as a method of organising and operating school and replaces it with the most outdated and anachronistic measures of disciplinary, coercion and repression that absolve the very concept of school and educational process. The pedagogical process is a process of coordinate production and transmission of knowledge in a conducive, moderate and open dialogue environment. It is not a relationship of power, authoritarianism and repression as the Minister imagines it. It is a dream place for young people and not a place of oppression and oppression. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] It is paradoxical that the Minister's public image on these initiatives, which, from the first day onwards, emphasizes the most authoritarian form of educational process, barbaric strictness, suppression with the vagina and the reintroduction of the most outdated and failed methods of school inspection. Because the Horn Reform was not based on the Minister's ingenuity, nor was it at all. It is pure regression and unstoppable revival of all methods of teaching applied prior to the science of pedagogicals. With your bill, Mrs. Kerameau, you've been turning public education a century back. And you know what always goes on in public education is good design and continuity. You break this important rule and the confidence it creates in public education, and you yourself as a political person do not have the background or the opportunity, but the main thing is not even the good will to present a good proposal for public education.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u122	Finish it, Mrs. Jackie.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u123	The rule is that all governments are in the position of the Minister of Education to place people who have knowledge of the public education system and who have for a long time been in positions of responsibility. Mr. Mitsotakis, obviously because of his internal problems, and of course because he himself is a man who deceives all public structures, even though he himself and his family are fed on public structures and institutions, he placed himself in the Ministry of Education's portfolio, as well as in many other ministries, a pseudo in his image and uniformity, that is, you, Mrs. Kerameos. Unfortunately, the generations that will be found and are already in front of your education system will suffer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u124	Finish it, Mrs. Jackie. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u125	However, I want you to know that this will soon change and you will become what you have always been, a man who tries to justify unjustified excuses from the position of counterpopulation. So vote on something that will change right away. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u126	Mr Vernardakis, Member of the SYRIZA, has the floor - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u127	Thank you. I shall start from the last fort of a argument against this monstrosity, of public support, as reflected in various research or opinion polls. And I say the last one, because the others have been very much devastated. As Pierre Bourdié has rightly pointed out, the old saying 'God is with us' has been replaced by 'public opinion is with us'. Bourdier himself, the father of modern sociology, has taught us that all these investigations have three posts on which they are based: firstly, everyone has an opinion on a specific subject; secondly, they have the same comfort for foreign affairs; and all opinions are equivalent. According to Burdier, all three posts together do not exist, do not exist. For example, on an issue as specific as that of a scientific issue on educational issues, they do not have the same confidence and the need to express it outwards and, of course, not all opinions are equivalent. For example, there are surveys of their sciences and discoveries, and the majority of public opinion believe that the earth is still. Only if this opinion prevailed over reality. There is a survey in recent years on Greek poetry and poets where George Seferis is referred to as a popular singer. That is why the rapporteur, who told us in the first and second committee and in his fourth speech, has said so today, and the Prime Minister said so today - the next time we call for such investigations, we read Bourdière's article 'public opinion is not there', which would, incidentally, help us very much and make us all better as politicians and as scientists if the government had not rushed to abolish sociology from schools. Minimum import base. Children with an average of 17 will not have the right to declare departments why they did not write well in the special course, which they were not taught in the public school. Students with grades 15 and 16 and above in mathematics will not be able to declare the mathematics classes because they did not get a good degree in chemistry, i.e. they have a low degree of moleculosis in the scientific field. Students of 18 cannot enter TECHNES because the minimum import base in special courses, i.e., length, sphere, 100 meters and free swimming, does not allow them. [[At this point, the Second Vice-President of Parliament, Mr HARALABOS ATHANAOU, occupyes the President-in-Office of the Council.]] Make sure you don't listen, putting your head on the ground like an ostrich. You have not only applied the minimum import base, you have made four additional cutters for universities, the minimum import base, the minimum import base per special course, the molecules coefficients per scientific field and the closed number of importers per university department. Those who built it or arrested this plan knew very well what they were doing. They're in a hurry outside of universities, and they're in a lot of high school graduates. They are urging the vast majority of graduates to either vocational training in low-skilled and low-wage schools or private colleges. To reach agreement on something at least if we can. If we accept that the graduates are about a hundred thousand, the positions at our universities this year are seventy thousand and the recruits will be about fifty - eight thousand. It is clear that not only does this terrible slogan which is heard and rehearsed here that everyone is entering universities - which is, of course, at the opposite side of any high-tech political investment, artificial intelligence in the fourth industrial revolution is supposed to be in the but politically central for the government - which other words we love - but we have a rejection rate that is likely to reach 50%. And be careful, we don't take into account the leak from high school to high school. However, ideologies are being thrown out here and reported in the form of the most unbearable clichés. Also lies or half truths. One of the arguments is that it is not the Ministry of Education that is to blame for the minimum import base. The universities decided on her and each department separately. Half-truth! Under what circumstances did the universities decide? Under the statutory obligation and the threat that university students should be referred to a breach of duty if they do not apply it, to set course rates within the range 0.8 to 1.2, which had already decided at the Ministry and, of course, always at the back of our minds with the possible cut in funding already in force for universities. Evaluation and autonomy. The system introduced has nothing to do with the necessary evaluation, evaluation of the educational work produced, i.e. the valuation of the value and value of the training work produced. It's a process of discipline that turns education back into the years of a punctual memory of inspectors. It's the evaluation of inspection. We are not concerned about this, it is not going to be implemented. Because it is not participatory, it is not democratic, it is not founded on the basis of common objectives in the school unit, it does not incorporate their decision-making process from above, it does not have a social horizon, it is not a factor in improving the social educational work. It's a mechanism factor, the outlawing of unsatisfactory teachers. And he has the absolute disapproval of the educational community. For the record alone, it is the form and structure of the evaluation required by the troika rabies in the negotiations with the SYRIZA Government. In particular, all the directors and their superpowers in today's bill are 100% out of the manual of the International Monetary Fund and those days. Obviously why it is not enacted by virginity. But we are concerned about the famous autonomy of schools, not because they will be able to take decisions on everyday issues. I told you that if you wanted to do that you would make a ministerial decision, you would authorize regional administrations, you would even change the organization of the Ministry. These are the lizards of the real targeting strategy that is the fragmentation of national education policy in multi-speed schools. And when the donation management factor enters into a treaty where the director has been assigned to an absolute boss of each school, we are very afraid - we are sure - that a glorious period of corruption and transaction is being opened for the country and for some scientists, obviously with victims of education, children, education, the ideal of equality of opportunity.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u128	Finish it, Mr. Comrade. You've reached nine minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u129	I shall conclude, Mr President. This is the sixth educational bill brought by the present government. A Armageddon reformation of education, the rights of children in popular classes and the rights of teachers, which has been through these years. Apparently, of course, it's time for the bill. Now society is aware that there is no upgrade of education. Instead, the country is going backwards and will need a lot of struggle to overcome these catalytic class restructurings. September will be very difficult for you because it begins and takes the flesh and bones of a great pan-educational front that will defend the social achievements of post-political democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u130	Thank you. Mrs Lianna Kanelle has the floor from the Communist Party of Greece and then Mrs Anna Evthymou will be prepared. Here, Mrs. Canelle, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u131	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, a debate is evolving - I would say - sad. And I'm so sorry. Someone much wiser - I read it - has said that in school where there are mirrors it should replace them with windows. I'm watching the debate, even if I'm not in the Chamber, and I'm tired of watching you touch yourself in a mirror, you and everyone below who applauds you. And you look at your face and you're very happy, you're very satisfied. What innovations you bring, what new schools you bring! You're bringing in an educational revolution that never lived before. I'm afraid your mirror is deformative just like in fairy tales. And sit forward and ask if you're the nicest of all who've ever been in front of this educational mirror. And children can't live in mirrors. Mirrors that reproduce the system itself, its own values and end up with children, many children, too many children who do not have the opportunity to open their wings outside the school hall because they are imprisoned inside the school and the standards you produce. And these kids can't go where you went or where others go. I'm not one of those people who'll blame you on a personal level. It simply disturbs me that you come to make a revolution that actually takes place from the beginning to the end the saying 'time is money'. You rally children’s time in this educational system that you bring as you do, in this school that you make the way you make it and give the money that is translated into this time stolen from children’s lives. So crime is approaching to be privately alert. You know, when kids get into the middle, crime is bored by itself in the consciousness of the people who hear it. And that's what I want people to hear and understand. And you take it into the pockets of those who are about to have an army cheap, an army trained at disposable level, with disposable skills at a time when even the big companies today, i.e. those who are dominant in the market, tell you not to put skills pointless on the subject for which I have hired you! Because postgraduate skills are useless, unusable even skills. Why? Because the market is seeking at the right time those who are obedient, quiet and doing a job without any inspiration, no knowledge, not talking and often willing to invest. You're not telling me, you're building a school where the teacher doesn't make sense to look at the children's eyes. If you go into a school and ask the teachers, this is their nightmare and at the same time their inspiration, having twenty - five pairs of children’s eyes full of thirst and full of demand. No, they should look at the account, to answer the director, who is, I would say, the superintendent of a plant of human minds that is supposed to be supposed to be in advance. A plantation you make, a plantation where children will come out on the basis of the products you have decided to cultivate. What's the kid gonna do with English? Unless we have forgotten about our Greeks, the "child", "child", "game", "children" and "education". What's English going to do in kindergarten when the class is in the container and in the merciless basement? Will he love them or will he hate them? Or will he learn to despair in English? And what will help him in his life to learn to despair in English, to be angry in English and to speak in English his pain and suffering, which lacks time for a game? What flower blossoms in the shadow, in the climate change container, that can make homes a regular hell? You're not telling me, you're talking about evaluation. Are you serious now? Evaluation under these circumstances? For the teachers, you will only do it for the newly appointed ones. The others will leave them behind, so that you can have them well with them, so that they do not react, so that there are no tensions. You think so. Because tensions will exist and why not all are determined to look at the face in the mirror and everyone wants to open a window to get air and open their minds to get air. You don't tell me, you want to do an evaluation of the teachers and you talk about autonomous schools that will be able to choose books. You are opposed to the basic idea that the Communist Party has put before you many times. And you don't have to be a communist to understand his value. A school single doesn't mean a book. A single 12-year-old school means that it is intended for this remaining education, when everything has been forgotten. Education stays when everything's forgotten. The school stays when the child learns to think, not what to think. How to think he learns, not what. Language tells us everything and is able to do that. It's another thing to open their horizons and supplies. Aren't you telling me, the athletes, when they start, start a line? And if anyone hears or reacts earlier to the phonite bam, they're canceled. And you come and tell us that under these circumstances, in a school rich or in a school poor - one that will be rich, why would he have donated parents, the other will be poor, like rich metropolitans and poor metropolitans, depending on how many of them go and how many shelves they have - will start from the same starting point? And will the child not be rewarded after the evaluation as a product of a school, which comes out of a director who is CEO in school and organise the school as if it were a small business, looking for funds, finding funds, multiplying sources, possibly closing agreements with inspiring book writers? What are you doing? Do you remove costs from the state and transfer it where in whose pockets? To the ones they have. Those who don't have what to do? They'll sell the field, sell the house. But they did it yesterday. Where's the innovation? Why don't the kids start with a single school? You say this together: And we will go together with the rich and the poor and the neo-democratics and the communists. We will all go together to deal with the crisis in the country from pandemic to memorials and any other crisis. But are you in your senses? You're saying these things in here, aren't you? How's it going together? How can the child who will have been taught in one school, who will be one book, who will be uploaded, why will the class have been made and the class appropriate with the evaluation, go along and communicate with the other child who will be in school the degraded one asking him "Where did you get to physics?" and will answer "What physics and where have I arrived?". Will the child come from one end of Greece and have nothing to link it to twelve, thirteen, fourteen, five, eight, eight, eighteen? Nothing will connect the kids. That's what you're doing. You break it down so that at the level of knowledge each child can have the identity of the competent or unfit to be absorbed from the labour market. That's not a class school. This is forced class school to such an extent that it builds and cultivates the worst of all: the illusion of freedom. You give the illusion to the children that they can choose. What will the children choose? What will the teachers choose? And it seems from your intention to do seminars to the weak. Good guys don't need any seminars at a time when you've spent a week and you're back! We're back here. We've been here for a year and a half to learn how to vote electronically. And you bring robotics! And it took special lessons to the MPs every five weeks to learn to vote and use the new technology. You will bring robotic and remove sports, take artistic lessons, remove Sociology, remove anything that the child takes in front of the mirror, to say: “Yes, ye master! I'm ready to take me to your work. Yes, I thank you for taking me to your service." This school is made and made by subjecting it to this process of producing human minds that will think exactly what you want, while you want it and at a low price. There are many children and many teachers who know how to let children think and how to learn to keep their minds in cells. And then in cells mirrors have nothing to do with it, because the sky is not reflected, you can only understand it if you open a window or break the bars. And there's a lot of people here in Greece who'll break the bars you're going to put them in.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u132	Thank you. Mrs Anna Happily from New Democracy has the floor, and immediately after Mrs. Rallia Christidou from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u133	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill has three objectives: The first objective is to liberalise the creative initiative of teachers and teachers. How is this objective achieved? With the strengthening of the autonomy of school units. International experience has shown that the more the decision-making center is school itself, the better the learning results. What the Ministry and the Minister are right to do is also confirmed by the survey of "internationalism", which highlights the lack of autonomy of schools by the central government as a major problem in the education system. I'm tabling it for the Minutes. [[At this point, the Member, Mrs Anna Happily, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned document, which is in the archives of the Secretariat of Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice]] The second objective is to make education work better through vocational development and the development of teachers. How is he accomplished? The establishment of an evaluation mechanism for the work of teachers as a mechanism for improving and strengthening teachers. No system can be improved unless it is evaluated first. The third objective is to strengthen education structures. How is he accomplished? First of all, with the strengthening of educational work. Since September there has been a two-year-old kindergarten throughout the country. Similarly, since September, there will be activities in English in kindergarten. Particular emphasis is given to a very important part, the emotional one. Thousands of organic positions are being established in psychologists and social workers in our schools. There will be skill workshops, digital transformation for the benefit of teachers and pupils. Also, the bill under discussion attempts to modernise and organise on a new basis secondary, postgraduate and higher church education. Of course, I think it would be advisable to consider even now the professional rights of graduates of the ECJ of the highest church academies. Ladies and gentlemen, as it emerged from the debate in the Committee on Culture, Youth, Education and the Media, and the Minister, society is demanding that education should now become a point of convergence between the political parties. Because the largest investment for both our country and every Greek family is human resources, children and young people, who stand out for the high level of education, for their learning skills, for their particular intelligence. I say this from my experiential experience as a law student at the Aristotle University with intense activity in the student youth of my family. I am well aware of the momentum of the dreams of these young people who are trying to make things happen in our country. But as a postgraduate student at Aristotle University I know well why I have experienced her as well the agony for professional rehabilitation, but also the daily biopathy to succeed and satisfy their reasonable ambition for professional development and resilience, as well as the anxiety of young people to make a family in our country. At this point I would like to stress that when Members have their own experience of experience or professional experience of the subject that the House is doing every time, I believe that it is for the benefit of both their resignation and society to present, because this is part of their parliamentary role. So for this bill, I am also in my capacity as President of the Association of Young Europeans Organized - Ability, but also as an appointed youth advisor in the Municipality of Thessaloniki. In this context, I believe that by setting the foundations for an effective educational system, for an open and autonomous school, we are setting the foundations for both the future of children and young people to progress in our country and to promote our country. That's why young people have to stay here, and we have to win the brand gain bet. This is a national objective for which wider political action and a wider political consensus would be useful. The project 'Greece 2.0' and the use of resources is a useful tool. Resources which, among other things, will be directed towards innovation and research and also to the very ambitious project of the digital transformation of education. At the same time, I firmly believe that school and education must have a social and social objective. The social sign is about reducing social inequalities because the excellent will always be excellent under any circumstances. However, the question is to give all children equal opportunities to become excellent, that is to say to get the best studies on the best terms and to give them the same chance of professional rehabilitation. And I believe that from the programme "Greece 2.0" it would be beneficial for all the opportunities to reduce disparities in education to be exhausted. The social objective of the educational system is from now on: The aim of an educational system is not only to tend to the creation of scientists or professionals but also to provide education. In other words, it is not about how many scientists and professionals we will make, but about what people we will build, what personalities we will be useful to society. In all, the political system must come to light on what is of major social importance. In conclusion, and in the context of this position, I would like to stress that the social problem of bowling, but also of racial discrimination and violence, can be largely fought through the proper education and education of correct characters with good standards The Ministry of Education has made a series of moves and actions in relation to such phenomena. But the road is a long and difficult one to root out deeply rooted taboo that extends to the murders of women and is attributed to the term as feminine homicides that have shocked Greek society in recent years. Already the Ministry of Justice announced yesterday the introduction of stricter penalties for specific criminal offences. That is why I am tabling my proposal that all of Parliament's women should cooperate and take joint action to address this problem. We must give a strong signal that we must not raise children with such distorting and violating standards but with respect for human dignity, diversity and the weaker ones. With these thoughts I am voting in favour of the bill.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u134	Thank you, too. Mrs. Rallia Christidou has the floor from SYRIZA. Immediately after the speech, Mr. Chakalotos has.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u135	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, with the alarming figures on the development of the pandemic in the country, the Prime Minister's statements for a normal summer, for vaccination rates, etc., would at last expect the government to take health shield measures even now after two years - first of all, on the National Health System, which has become a helpless system only for COVID with the rest of the patients pushing to the private sector, for those who have the financial potential of course. As far as education is concerned, other things should be discussed. We should be discussing how schools open up. We should talk about fewer students per class, about nurses, about permanent cleaning staff in school units. We should discuss cleaning protocols in school units, health protocols, support for students and teachers with computers and internet connections in case of new tele-instruction, which in winter, if you remember correctly, the children were going to the cafes to catch wi fi. Vacuums from the two years when children went to school for the effect on their psychics from what they experienced all this time. We should be discussing high school graduates, who, on the basis of which you - cut them off - direct to private colleges where, during Mrs Kerameos and the Prime Minister - fail the pan-Hellenics as a miracle to excellent people and graduate with expensive payments. Despite strong protests by children and parents, the Minister is not backing up. It's a lot of money you see. So instead of all this, what are we talking about? End of July, what are we talking about? We are discussing the new way in which the government is attacking the school in order to control it partisanly in order to check it ideologically. We are discussing a bill where favorably domination is the motto, the elimination of all collective proceedings is the motto. And, of course, the educational climate and the needs of the students are once again the great losers. You say you introduce autonomy to education. You are lying because it is not possible for the school unit to be autonomous without its democratic function and this democratic function to be smuggled into the air by removing the powers of the teachers' association, giving them to the director or the supervising director, who will have previously been diabeticly imposed and chosen by a council formed arbitrarily by the Minister, without the participation of elected representatives of teachers for the first time after a hundred years, heretics denounced the phenomena to which you have been so discerned in the past. A director selected from a process that should be noted, from one hundred molecules to forty-five, evaluation and interview, is purely subjective. A director who is responsible for pedagogical guidance of the school unit, but his pre-service within the class class is rated only by six molecules in a total of one hundred. It is clear that others will be the qualifications of this man who has to have and not of course his pedagogical experience. An evaluator, a command officer with over-responsibility. We were told by the Prime Minister, Mr Mitsotakis, that this bill is, in many cases, a question of changing the model, changing the way of public administration. But you cannot account for the administration of schools, such as the administration of a private body or even of a public body. Because, ladies and gentlemen, the public school is not a company with a strategic goal. The school is not owned by shareholders to run it by one person chosen by the shareholders. You want this man so that he can play a particular role. What will be the role? The conveyor belt of the ministerial orders. And that's what you call autonomy. And below. It is called autonomy to seek out funding methods, Article 98 and 99, while so far public education has been required by the State. You say you don't stop funding schools. What's your real plan? Each year less and less funding is required to search customers for the use of the rooms, or to force parents to put their hands in the pocket or finally to seek donations. Are we overreacting? Already, at the moment we're talking about you conducting the same bill at universities, completely closing the bar of funding - I guess, not to say completely - forcing universities to turn to the famous market, so that they can respond to their operating costs and research needs, only such dependencies, you know, have profound cultural consequences. Let me give an example: When the donor at school is a soda company, will you be able to talk in class about how bad soft drinks do in health? When the donor at school is a neighboring industry, will you be able to talk to the environmental pollution programme? So lie when you talk about autonomy, lie when you say that you will continue to fund schools’ needs, lie naturally, and when you state that evaluation will not be punishable. Article 58 provides for the deprivation of a month's salary to teachers, as well as their graduation and salary. False about training by altering its meaning. Instead of general education for teachers - consistently demand - you go ahead with the training of those who have previously targeted as inadequate. Our educational system is indeed in need. He does have weaknesses, but his needs will be met with fewer students in the halls, with changes in the curriculum and in the books, with the collaborative experiential work in the class and not with the disciple- collector of information in front of a screen, with the school pedagogical cell in the neighborhood instead of the school's examination centre, so that they are more and less able to study. They will be dealt with through measures to strengthen the educational climate and the climate of cooperation. With multidisciplinary support for educational work, such as the SYRIZA, with the agreement of OLEME and which you abolished without any explanation. Educational reality is going to get worse with new hierarchy and power relationships.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u136	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u137	I'm closing, Mr. President. A crucifix climate will be created in schools. Heterogeneous in positions of responsibility, of course the blue certificate, instead of solving it, will worsen the situation in education, and this will be explained by the educational community, parents and students from September and also by the polling time. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u138	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u139	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u140	The Minister has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u141	Mr President, if I have listened well, Mrs Christine, she said 'the money is a lot'. What money, Mr. Christidou? What money?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u142	The international interests.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u143	Because here, you know, you're in the temple of democracy. If, then, you have evidence, testify. Otherwise, if the poverty of your arguments is such - and it is sad indeed - you are, unfortunately, resorting to your affectionate tactics, mud. So, what money, Mrs. Christidou? What money? For colleges? For the dozens of decisions? Look around, because the Prime Minister today only mentioned two decisions. Do you know how many there are? Your party is this, which - and rightly so, I say again - enabled college graduates to enter the public system. It's your party! We'll say it again.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u144	... Mr. President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u145	Mr. Friend doesn't like it. It's coming out, too. We'll bring you the pouch here with your decisions. But when, Mrs. Christidou, you're launching something, you have evidence. Because what you're saying is sues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u146	Mr President, the floor, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u147	I understand what you want to say, Mr Skourletis, I will give you the floor. Because he mentioned the party you want to say. Here, you have the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u148	Mr President, I too would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u149	Your parliamentary representative will speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I understand that you have probably lost your temper, because, as I read on the sites, the signatures I mentioned before the young people - this morning I mentioned a number of forty thousand young people who are asking for your resignation - have already exceeded sixty-two thousand. That, however, is no reason to make unreasonable counter-attacks and to be mentioned for once in the same lies that have been answered. Because it is absolutely false that there was a decision by Mr Phile, who recognised professional rights in private colleges, when you know that this was made by the Samara Government over Mr Arvanitopoulou's office. We have only managed and limited this to the alternates, with the commitment that we will abolish it when we leave the memorandum and abolished it. Besides, why do you bring it back? If what you say existed during the Phile service, why do you bring it back? So let us stop talking with this sort of make-up, since you like these kinds of arguments, stand up to the seriousness of the issues, and at last tell us what the figures of the results are? How many stayed out this year on the special import basis? We haven't heard of it. All we hear is the same lies that are repeated and repeated even though they are disguised. You're confusing the conversation. It doesn't suit you, I think.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u152	Mr President, I ask for the floor on personal grounds.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u153	Mrs. Christidou, answer what you said about the money. There's no disrespect on your face. Mr. Skourlet's answer now, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u154	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u155	Will a dialogue begin now, Minister?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u156	No, Mr President, I would like to make a clarification of what Mr Skourletis said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u157	Here, you have the floor to make a clarification.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u158	On something, Mr. Skourletis is right. It's false that he's just Mr. Friend. These, Mr Skourletis, are indicative decisions not only of Mr Friends, not just of Mr Gavroglou, of all your ministers. A lot of SYRIZA Ministers. You said it was just for the deputys. Just for the deputy teachers, Mr. Skourletis? Let's have a look at SYRIZA's decisions. It's a bunch of decisions. But what did you do, Mr. Skourlet? And that's the sad thing.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u159	If that's true, why do you bring it back?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u160	Mr. Skourlet, listen to it, it gives you a simple answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u161	You didn't even have the courage of your opinion. You didn't even have it! You did what you did and I say again you did it right. It was a Union obligation. But when did you abolish it? Two months before the election. Or maybe a month and a half, if I remember well, end of May, if I remember well. So you did all this here, all your Ministers recognized the graduates and came a month before the elections, to say "we against..."
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u162	Mr President, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u163	Wait a minute, we can't keep doing this. The issue has arisen from an expression by Mrs Christine that money is a lot. Leave insinuation. As has been said, it was in some way very important that the Minister and Mr Skourletis responded. If it takes later, I'll give you the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u164	Mr President, give me the floor for a minute, it's personal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u165	It's not personal. See the Rules of Procedure, please, Mr. Christidou. It's not personal what he said.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u166	Of course it is, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u167	Please, there's no staff.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u168	How is there no staff, Mr. President?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u169	Read the Rules of Procedure, there is no staff here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u170	Of course there is.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u171	Nor are the contents of the meaning changed, nor is it reproached.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u172	Of course it's alternating since he says the politician...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u173	Please, it's not personal. Mr. Chakalotos has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u174	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I will start with a story I've told the House before, but I think it fits very much with what we're talking about. In one of the last crusades, Yv Le Bretton was walking to Jerusalem and found in front of him a woman on the right hand held a torch of fire on the left one bucket of water. When Yv Le Bretton asked her, "What are you doing?" He replied: "With the bucket I want to wipe out all the fires of hell and I want to burn heaven, because I don't want anyone to love God, either because he fears hell or because he wants to go to heaven." That means to us selfishness. You can understand, Mrs. Keramos, that we don't want anyone to be at school or at university, either because she's afraid she's going to stay out and have a terrible job, precariousness, no pension or because she wants to be Golden Boy. We want school and college to have an autism. That is why we insist that this is a democratic collective project. That is why in my previous speech, when you again tabled a bill, I talked about children maturing at different ages and you are not entitled to separate them. That's why I said we don't need schools that make the best, but all students and all students must be together. These are our values, I believe. In your version of capitalism you are supporting, is there any area of social and political life protected by market or management principles in business? Is there any area with other values? Is that what you're arresting? Do you realize that even capitalism is parasitic in values created in other social structures, which have other principles and other values? Have you realised that the university nourishes the market directly, but why is it doing research that has nothing to do with computers, but is it finally found that it can help computers? Have you realised that social capital in all the countries that promote confidence and cooperation, which capitalism needs, is inactivated with neoliberal policies precisely why do you not have this feeling of protecting the social fabric from the market values or the values of management? When I asked you whether you were supporting the European goal of raising students, the children who go to university, you answered that Europe wants more training, not more university posts. So you answered me, and that was a double mistake, because today Mr Tsipras answered what is the objective of the Commission. It's 50% of the kids, and we're 43%. But you're saying we're not with university education and we're with training when your first act was to undo the Ministry of Education's plan for the two-year programmes from the ESDP to be able to go to milk or furniture industries. It was the first thing you showed the class hate and he answered that I'm from England and I need to know. Aren't you telling me, Mrs. Kerameau, because you know in England and you asked me, are they staying empty places in the university in England? Do you know England's educational system? Do they have empty positions as long as twenty thousand seats are left here? You know what they do in England, they do second and third and fourth rounds. It's called clarering the system if you want to find it on Google. So both Dionysus and Helen would take another sentence if they had empty positions. But you don't do that. There is no second and third rounds to correct the mistakes. They're just staying empty places in universities. So don't ask me about the English education system if you haven't studied it and you don't know the answer. There are no empty positions left in the British system because they do not want to shrink the positions of the universities. And it is not just a quantitative matter that is also a qualitative one. You're talking about autonomy, decentralisation and censorship. In fact, we agree on less bureaucracy and decentralisation, but not autonomy in the way you say the manager can do what he wants, that the manager in Hollargos and Kifisia will be able to find money, while in Sepolis he will not be able to find it. We don't believe that. He said Mr Mitsotakis in his speech that we are doing what they do elsewhere and told us that we are interested in social mobility. Really, this system of managers - which is basically in America, is not a European system so much - has it brought social mobility to America? Is that what you think? Have you read these studies? Do you know what has happened over the last thirty years in social mobility in America? It is much harder for poor children to climb the social ladder thirty years ago when there were people with your own ideas and suggestions. Mr. Mitsotakis tells us: "Come on, vote for the evaluation. Tell us yes or no, if you're in favour or against and then we're talking about it." What if you do? You don't do that. You are bringing a concrete proposal for individual evaluation, with punishment for training for those who do not go through. I have to tell you, Mrs. Kerameau, that this is beyond me. It goes beyond me that your view of training is that it is a punishment for those who do not go well in evaluation. That's what the bill says, but where's the conversation Mr. Mitsotakis says? Did you discuss with scientific bodies and do we have the results of these surveys? Did you discuss with the university and the educational community? You have done all of this yourself, without debate, without consultation, as you have done with the Recovery Fund, as you have done with local government and the environment. You think you know everything, that we do what others do, and that we have to accept it without any discussion. Finally, you cannot continue to deceive the Greek university as he did Mr. Mitsotakis today. Have you really not heard of the mergers of the University of Thessaly or at the University of West Attica and how well they have been and how well they have been upgraded and continue to deceive them with jokes that an amendment of the last minute has been made? We - and with this I am really finishing, Mr President - because we believe in university and school as a democratic, social, collective project we do not want competition that divides. We want to do good schools and good universities everywhere. That's the project. Your project is a shrinking of the university, segregation in the schools to have the elites going to some universities and there will be the poor who will go to either training or colleges, and of course there will be a part of the elites who will pay for foreign universities. I think it is time for another government that has other values and will work for all schools and for all universities. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u175	Thank you, too. Mr Haimaras Themistoklis from New Democracy, and immediately thereafter Mr Michaelides from SYRIZA, has the floor. Here, Mr. Himara, you have seven minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u176	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in the two years of New Democracy's governance education is a top priority. In order to upgrade and modernise we have established a series of laws relating to the improvement of the school and the quality of educational programmes, the digital transformation of the school and the introduction of modern themes such as robotics, the upgrading of vocational education and lifelong learning, in order to meet the modern requirements of the labour market, the upgrading of higher education in terms of extroversion and autonomy. On this coherently structured plan for the reorganisation of education, this draft law is also based. Critical issues that have been the field of conflict and conflict over time are dealt with. Firstly, who assesses, what assesses and whether he will objectively evaluate. In principle, therefore, evaluation is not an enemy of education. It's not a sloppy tool for dismissing teachers. Just the opposite. It is the means by which effective improvement of the educational community can be ensured. The evaluation can identify shortcomings, weaknesses, malfunctions. And, of course, locating strengthens their effective response. Secondly, the criteria for selecting training staff. We have to be honest. He wants work and he wants work from all of us to restore credibility to the training staff. It takes a lot of work from all of us to stop party interventions in their choice. It takes a lot of work to regain the trust and respect of their superiors, to restore dignity in the hierarchy. This is what we are trying to achieve by increasing the service required, simplifying the conditions for participation, Councils without the participation of elected representatives, the possibility of objections and the reintroduction of the semi-structured interview. Thirdly, the autonomy and accountability of the school unit is an issue that has remained only in the sphere of discussion for so many years. It introduces decentralisation of responsibilities. The creative initiative of the teacher is being liberated. The role of the Director is strengthened. Flexibility is provided in shaping school everyday life. There is freedom for teachers for evaluation methods and much more. In short, we give school to those who know it better, who know better what, really, is needed by the student and the school unit: to teachers. But always in terms of evaluation and effective supervision rather than in fear of punishment. Fourthly, the free choice of books and the detailed programmes in general. Free book selection is freed, educational material becomes available and digital. This is how we strengthen our teachers' scientific status. In combination with the upgraded school set up in September next, education finally turns to cultivating critical thinking. He's leaving behind the sterile immersion. This year, for the first time, we are organizing a system of church education in order to upgrade the educational background of our clergymen. Ladies and gentlemen, in the 1913 bills a radical educator then criticises pseudo-classicalism, the lack of practical guidance of the school, which, as he says, produces graduates who "or join together on public funds or are thrown into the society spiritual proletarians, scientists unemployed". It argues that there is a need to organise what is known as 'preparing more systematically through the development of general skills and the provision of appropriate knowledge for vocational schools and technical professions'. I think that, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, you have acknowledged who these words are attributed. It's Dimitris Glenos. One wonders whether you really have studied the work of the Frenchman or refer him to him only because of ideological affinity. The French, ladies and gentlemen, a hundred years ago, had detected the weaknesses of the system and fought against the Conservation of the era. And I am concerned today with all the speeches, how is it possible for conservatives at that time to be present today? You have battled trenches in the resolution of the vocational education bill. You are now fighting against the modernization and autonomy of the school against the free choice of the book. You have fought against the model and experimental schools. You have abolished the evaluation, and now you are fighting not to legislate when at the same time the vast majority of society imposes drastic changes. You do not understand that the crisis is not just economic but above all social. Change in society will come from education, from young children. It is not times for us to plunder SYRIZA's colleagues, playing games on the back of children and parents with the introductory examinations at universities, no matter the substance of their professional rehabilitation. You also gambled as a government when with strong letters you noted "No evaluation of teachers. First the instructor's only to hold their vote. I could go on for a while, but I think it doesn't matter because the Greek people see, hear and judge. I would like to congratulate our Minister, Niki Kerameos, and her colleagues for their work, for their fight against conservativeism, maintenance, which this time has a different ideological sign. Through practical difficulties, health risks, economic and social challenges, we have made bold and innovative changes that are loyal to our election programme, to our commitments. With changes made from the bottom up we respond to the modern needs of society and correct errors and pathogens. We build that school, which will be fully in line with the current conditions. The school that will be ready to face the challenges that tomorrow will bring. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u177	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Andreas Michaelides has the floor. And then right after Mr. Pericles Mandash.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u178	Thank you, Mr President. One could criticise and comment on many of his articles in any case huge to the extent of a draft law that we are debating these days. I shall then do so for some of his provisions. Nevertheless, I think the major issue here is the broader social and political context within which the draft law and its central ideological and worthy character are incorporated. As regards the general context and the context, the bill comes in the midst of an unprecedented reduction in the number of participants in higher education. It is a development deliberately and predetermined by the Government itself on the basis of the legalisation of the minimum import base. It is a development which, in our view, will be detrimental to young people and young people who wish to study but which will affect universities themselves, particularly some regionally. As I fear, this will also happen for the polypathic University of the Aegean, let me report it. With regard to the worthy core and the central targets that run the entire bill, it is clear that they are consistently serving the conservative and neoliberal agenda of the Minister and the government in the field of education. The bill finds forecasts that are expressly or indirectly characterized by the proliferation and diffusion of hierarchical relations, the strengthening of the powers of the mono-institutions, the increase of differences and antagonisms between teachers and schools, the individualisation of responsibility and others. The principles of collectiveness, synergy, care for the reduction of educational inequalities and the impact of economic and regional disparities in the field of education, the taking responsibility on the part of the government for providing equal education to all, principles that we and the majority of the educational community share, are absent. I will attempt a few comments in the individual provisions: Chapter I of the second part of the bill describes the introduction of a new complex structure, abolishing completely early, before they are actually valued, the MAGPs which we as government had established. Therefore, at the site of the Interdisciplinary Regional Educational Planning Centres, the new positions of the quality supervisors are created and a series of resulting bodies which also undertake the supervision of eight hundred throughout the country, as renamed school advisors. The powers given to the latter refer to the functioning of the unfamiliar memory of inspectors. And in any case, the new framework shifts the focus from teachers' teaching support to measuring and evaluating their effectiveness. In addition, the evaluation model chosen is hierarchical exclusively from above. In this way, teachers will not only be subject to the almost exhaustive assessment, let me say, which you are planning, but they will also be literally the last wheels of the chariot, as, in the base of the pyramid, they will be loaded with additional control requirements that will be passed on from above. If one takes into account the additional powers given to school directors and the abolition of the bi-directional nature of the evaluation, it is not only the differences between our own cooperative, non- penalising evaluation model, but also the weakening of the position of teachers who attempt this bill. With regard to the Environmental Education and Sustainability Centres, I would like to focus not only on restoring a close and superficial treatment of the environmental issues you are promoting, but on the fact that the education service on them for the first time is not considered to be teaching. This has not only a service but also a wider impact on the staffing and operation of the centres that have triggered relevant educational reactions throughout the country, such as those who serve at the Centre for Environmental Education in Homerupoli, Chios, an excellent and truly model centre. Finally, I would like to make a reference to church education. First of all, I would like to stress our opposition to the establishment of the PWN, namely the Schools of Learning for Candidate Clericals, as we believe that such structures do not guarantee the level of education that the priests of the country should have. We believe that this objective is served by the integration of the highest church academies into university theological schools. Having said that, I believe that the closure of two of the four church academies takes place sharply and violently. There is obviously a need for more dialogue and use of the positive elements of the church academies, no doubt. So, ladies and gentlemen, it is a bill that faithfully serves a hard neoliberal policy. That is why, of course, it cannot be accepted by us in this Chamber, and I am sure it will not be accepted in society as well. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u179	Thank you, too. Mr Pericles Mandasse has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Sarakiotis from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Mr President. Madam Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today we are discussing a bill with two main lines, with two main objectives: the upgrading of the school and the strengthening of teachers. But let us consider for a moment what the basic philosophy of the bill is and what its principles are, what we expect from its implementation and what ideas they are serving through its vote. Freedom and autonomy, evaluation and improvement. These are the principles and perceptions we are seeking to introduce into the Greek education system. And, of course, I find it difficult to accept that there are Members of the Greek Parliament who are opposed, who choose to stand up to improvement, from evolution and democracy, and who are conscious of the tide and adequacy. More freedom, therefore, through more choices of books, more choices of writing, through the possibility for teachers to become better teachers by choosing, selecting and adapting matter to their pupils. Instead of the one-tier pathway, we have choices, we can compare, we have diversity. We ensure that the material is available in digital format, along with additional, supportive content, also available to everyone, with the help of technology, so that teachers and students have widened access and a multi-faceted, interactive, educational and learning framework. The goal is obvious: To have a limitation of memorisation, to have more efficient education, to have choices to identify the best, the most efficient and the most efficient and to adapt it to each class, each school in each city. We also bring more autonomy through the strengthening of the school unit, through trust in teachers, who now see their role to be significantly upgraded, because, ladies and gentlemen, autonomy means: I trust you to organise your lesson better, I trust you to freely select the books you want, I trust you to set up the tests and tests, I trust you to establish group organisations, to define teams and work, and I trust you to put tests, if it serves, because the value is, in the end, found in the acquisition of knowledge and skills, in the effectiveness of education and not in the sterile degradation, nor, of course, in the single-handed implementation of a steadfast and firm, centrally defined restrictive model. We are also talking about strengthening the role of the director but also strengthening the teachers, who are now getting space and responsibility, because we will now have assistant directors, school coordinators, we will have mentors for our children. And all of these, with new responsibilities and the exploitation of their skills, are responsible for organising educational meetings, work to make better use of school facilities, organise events that, in turn, bring new resources to school and open streets to school and educational communities. Because with a phrase, the school must be at the heart of every action, every action and every initiative. There is a transfer of knowledge and not to the boards of committees or to the offices of the Ministers. And when the school unit comes to the centre, we have to have new security aspects for its operation to ensure that it becomes even better, but without injury to its school and pedagogical character. This is exactly what the evaluation is being carried out, because it responds to weaknesses, errors and failures, but not with a view to punishment but with a view to continuous improvement through the training and rehabilitation of weaknesses. This is why the evaluation is descriptive, and it covers both the teaching performance and the educational climate and the professional consistency of the assessor. Ladies and gentlemen, I should like to conclude by saying this. It is time for the Greek school to return page, to be released from the narrow restrictive role of central planning and to be self-determination, improved, upgraded, upgraded in ways that it knows and adopts better and always respecting the rules, with supervision, accountability, transparency and merit. This is our debt to the next generations. This is our debt to our children, and we must all be worthy of that confidence. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u181	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Sarakiotis of SYRIZA has the floor and immediately thereafter Mr. Maraveyas from New Democracy. If he's not here, we'll go to the next one. Here, Mr Sarakiotis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u182	Thank you, Mr President. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Ladies and gentlemen, the Government of Mrs Mitsotakis and a bill from the Ministry of Education, that is to say, business as a usual. It has not brought a single bill from the Ministry of Education, neither has there been an amendment from the same Ministry in the last two years, which has not promoted - either patronage and provocative at times or intensified - private business interests, on the basis of customer relations that it has created over the years. Once again, you are overcoming your worst self by operating in terms of the market economy and even in its worst appearance on such a sensitive area of education. Amid a pandemic and with schools closed you choose provocatively and hypocritically, as you describe in the title of the bill, to upgrade the school and strengthen teachers. And how do you do it? Undermining the notion and awesome background of public education, which is the guarantor of social welfare, in terms of justice, by introducing from the back door private interests and sponsors into the sacred space of the school, trying to get rid of the unnecessary burdens of funding the public education system, creating a two-speed school in which the weakest students will have a unique destination, Kaidas, if their family does not have the financial opportunity to study in a private college. It is no coincidence that the people of education are against this bill too, Minister. The President of the Teaching Federation denounced the absence of institutional dialogue and the way in which decisions are taken by the Ministry, without any consultation with the people who know the real needs and problems of the public school. As he said, this is a bill simply exiled by democracy and democracy, collectiveness, participation and cooperation aimed at a school in which bureaucracy and centralism dominate, with a director who will carry out the duties of CEO in a large business group and teachers who will be mere portrayers of the educational process. This provision, moreover, of strengthening the Director's responsibilities in the cases of private schools, will help employers' immunity, as intrinsic intervention in the work of education and the scientific identity of the teacher will now be legitimised. The representative of the Federation of Private Educational Officers of Greece drew attention, as the bill restores the party state and imposes market conditions and increases inequalities in education, with the government's objective of clearly strengthening business interests. Who, ladies and gentlemen, has warmly defended Mrs Kerameo's bill? Oh, of course, he was the legal counsel of the Association of Private Schools, who even congratulated the Minister. Such an undisclosed coexistence of business interests with Minister and, indeed, Minister for Education, I admit that it is difficult to meet. This legislative initiative comes, as a follow-up to the application of the minimum import base, which left out of schools of preference for students who had raised even more than 20,000 molecules. They are the “excellent useless”, such as these children recently called themselves in letters that see the light of publicity and while earlier, in December 2020, they had preceded the simulation of college qualifications with a degree in university schools. Obviously, there was a project, but not with the aim of upgrading public education, but of converting it into a free distorted market, operating in entrepreneurship and profit terms. How else can one interpret the fact that a person who gathers nineteen thousand molecules cannot study, become an architect, study in an architectural school, but one who has written three thousand molecules can go to a private college and become a good architect after your own legislative initiatives? What kind of unprecedented excellence is this? Many other examples have been said, such as one with nineteen thousand five hundred molecules cannot be introduced into the school, and one with fewer, eighteen thousand being introduced into the same school. What kind of excellence is that? Because the Minister in her public posts often invokes data and today has also provided evidence from other countries, I would like to inform us, if there is any other government, not in Europe, but throughout the world, that has legislated to increase the number of pupils per room, in the midst of the murder pandemic, with experts signalling a risk signal for the disease in schools. Let us know if there is any other shameful government on all continents, which has proceeded to this measure during the pandemic. So you come today and put the cherry on the cake. After expelling all those students you could from public school, towards the private school, now get out of the public structures themselves to operate on private criteria. Honestly, do you wonder, what democratic logic can a school unit operate autonomously and connect its existence to finding resources? How can a school be judged not to perform its work because it does not generate profits? Minister, it is the public school that graduated from the vast majority of Greek scientists, who are at the moment, both in our country and abroad. It is what, despite the individual problems, has allowed all children to enjoy the same rights to learning and social development on the basis of their potential. It is the public school, which has been a timeless hive of democracy and equality for all young people, without limitations and without exceptions. This school is aimed at you, as you have targeted the previous period and succumbed to the Greek universities, as you targeted young people during the pandemic and earned today the title that the children have awarded you as the "killer of their dreams". Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u183	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. Mr. Constantine Maravegias has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, we are sad to note that the dialogue on the upgrading of the school is not balanced in this debate, because the only proposal that has been heard in Parliament these days comes from the government and from the New Democracy. No other proposal has been submitted for any specific provision of this draft law. It is indicative that not one of the seven amendments tabled by SYRIZA has anything to do with the main object of the bill. It is also impressive that, although in words all opposition parties appear to support the upgrading of public school, none of them have been able to present their own plan to Parliament in the last two years. All we have heard so far were reports of general, criticisms of irrelevant issues from the Ministry of Education and even personal attacks. SYRIZA even came to attack the relevant Minister, Mrs. Keramea, accusing her of slaughtering thousands of students herself, putting the knife in the neck of innocent children. I don't know what's worse in the end, the graphicity of a Member who tries to oppose anything or when a politician catches the children in his mouth to hit his opponent. There is, of course, also a third category that we have remembered some time ago, the one of the most persecuted populist who treats citizens as indigenous. In particular, we have heard the former Prime Minister promise that if he becomes a Prime Minister of the year again in 2022, then next year, in 2023, he will see to it that those who did not enter this year are overnumbered. This is, however, a suggestion - to use his own words - 'childish lightness which has no precedent'. Certainly, he doesn't even have a audience, because on the one hand no student believes that SYRIZA will pass him and, on the other, because no voter believes that Mr. Tsipras will be Prime Minister this time. Mr President, society is asking for real changes and no more lies. It seeks, as has been shown by a recent survey, to upgrade the public school in terms of evaluation, autonomy and excellence. As much as the opposition does not like these words, it is exactly what the citizens are asking for. In fact, with the survey itself, seven out of ten positively consider the evaluation of educational units and more than three out of four want to increase the number of standards and experimental schools. In addition, mass participation in recent introductory schools exams showed the very great interest of children and parents in an institution that was so fighting by SYRIZA. This bill is an opportunity for the Greek people to find out again who is in favour of maintenance and what political force it works for progress. A characteristic example is the establishment of an evaluation mechanism for the educational project. SYRIZA didn't even tell us if he wanted the evaluation. It cannot go hand in hand with the practices of the advanced countries. All over the world, they use evaluation as a mechanism to feed public education and improve it, where it is of course necessary. On the contrary, however, by SYRIZA, the New Democracy, as it had committed itself to election, proposes evaluation everywhere, not of course, to punish teachers or schools, but to improve them, thereby improving the quality of the education that the quality should in no way depend on the parents' financial comfort. The only way to get everyone equal access to quality education goes through the upgrading of public school. As a parent who will have all three children in public school in September, I would like to see the Greek PISA applied directly, as provided for in Article 104, with measurements of the effectiveness of the educational system for all students at the end of primary and high school, i.e. anonymised measurements at the level of each school unit in our country, so that we parents can also know what the position of the respective primary and high schools is, to which we are sending our children. For these schools, of course, we pay taxes, which is also indifferent to some parties. Another element of the bill is the strengthening of the autonomy of schools. The opposition, as we have seen with the originals, wants complete uniformity and it is only achieved with suffocating central control of all school units. Mrs Keramos again accepts SYRIZA's month because she does things that are not only democratic, but are also dictated by common sense. It decentralizes the taking of educational, economic and administrative decisions. It changes the school with the release of the creative initiative of its teachers and staff, who are close to students, those who first know their needs. A characteristic application of the principle of autonomy is Article 98 which allows the use of school buildings and facilities by simple decision of the school board concerned. It is a practical solution, for which I am very pleased that it is adopted, as I recently put it to Mrs Kerameau by parliamentary mention of the use of gymnastics schools by sports clubs. It is important that any revenue from such activities will be attributed to the school units themselves, forming an additional resource for them. In conclusion, I would like to say a few words about the ministerial amendment, concerning the extension of the economic incentive to specialise anesthetics and doctors in university clinics and hospitals. This is a correct amendment to the provision, which we have recently voted on for the anaesthetics of the ESS. As a doctor, I believe that this is an important economic incentive which would work equally positively for other critical specialities and specialisations. The aim, of course, will be to make it easier to fill vacant posts of qualified and qualified people where there are shortcomings today. However, since this provision includes already the servants, I consider it appropriate to extend it to qualified and qualified intensifiers. It is the doctors who have made the great effort in the time of pandemic and it is with great shortages in staff and that would be good for this over-representation and practical effort, while at the same time providing incentives for specialisation to other doctors, so that this sensitive area of intensification will never get any more problems for scientific staff and shortages in the future. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u185	Thank you too, Mr. Comrade. The Vice-President now has the floor, Mr. Dimitrios Vitsas.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u186	Thank you, Mr President. "Greece eats its children." We've read it, we've heard it. I don't adopt it. It's not Greece that eats her children. They are the policies that eat the children of Greece and Greece themselves. These policies are mainly due to the conservative faction, which has shaped a country with a clutch economy, now almost exclusively based on tourism and certain services. This draft law contributes to the education sector in this direction. This is the model you have in mind for Greece and young people. Of course, the system by which you demolish the future of young people and condemn them to be insecure attracts the political interpretations on which we conflict. But you show a wild joy when you do this and this thing is not easy to explain in political terms. Especially you, Minister. Are you trying to get the Minister’s name that young people love to hate? Do you want your name to become part of a slogan of young people on the streets and walls? Not only do I not adopt it, but from the Stepma I want to cause it not to happen, because this is simply how your name will enter into the dance of all those Ministers of Education from the conservative faction that no one can remember anymore. The only Minister of Education, who we remember so far, was Rallis, who established the primary language, what the Left was saying in Greece for eighty years. He's the only one. Ask out, does anyone else remember who were Ministers for Education? Secondly, stop using euphemism, that is, distorting concepts, so gray and vulgar that they lose their meaning. Look at some of your policies. The New Republic of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has created a working environment of extreme precariousness, especially for young workers, and this is based on reform, flexibility, the provision of new opportunities! You testify, in the black night, bills that will mainly give pensions for future generations to private speculation and you are talking about a new insurance system. You have loaded the youth with all the responsibility for your own destructive management of the pandemic when accusing the youth of transmitting the virus to the squares, when it is not vaccinated and destroying the wall of immunity, although you are indeed giving them a pocket of shame. On this occasion, every Member who comes up to this step must call on all citizens of the country to be vaccinated, to overcome fear, to overcome anxiety, to overcome the doubt. Because we think of ourselves as politicians - our terror! - they don't believe us, it's good to get the scientific potential ahead. But there is nowhere to be seen as the awkwardness to young people as in your policies on education. You praise excellence, while condemning thousands of young people not to study, if their families do not have the money to send them to some downgraded private college, belonging to one of your party clients. At the same time, you provide the exit of new Greek students and scientists abroad despite the great words about their return. They fill you with information - although I believe you know - medical schools abroad with Greek students, not far away. See how many Greek students from Sofia's medicine returned last weekend with companies' planes and you will take the measure. You've been sucking our minds so many days with two things. The one that in Greek universities comes in a hundred and comes out sixty. Alexis Tsipras proved you're lying. But let us think for a moment that you're right. So, instead, tell us how you will do the sixty-five, seventy-five, seventy-five, either with student loans guaranteed by the state, whether with a housing programme or an incentive for students and young scientists, what are you doing? You're doing a numerical alchemy. Make a hundred, eighty. And so you will go abroad and you will be proud of your fellow Europeans, because you have improved the speech from six to ten to seven and ten. Not by increasing the numerator, but by reducing the denominator. You know, I want to scare you for this clever idea. Mark Zookberg walked into Harvard, left Harvard, didn't leave the university. Steve Jobs and Bill Gates were introduced, but they never graduated. Where would you put them now? Forty or sixty? They'd be sent to an IKU. Second, alas, do we do politics with polls? You don't know that you too, if you make specific questions, will you get specific answers? So if I were to go out to a poll and say: How many do you want your kids to go to college? In 100% I'd get an answer. At the same time I would say that means free access to universities? Would you accept that? But I'm telling you the reasoning. Upgrade school. You degrade the public school that is central to your doctrine. I find it hard to even call your extreme neoliberalism as ideology. It reminds me of a religious entrepreneur. There is also a third argument. High unemployment 16.5% and at the same time a lack of skilled people on the market. Isn't that what we all say? Is that true? It's true. There's a solution. Strangely enough, we've been here from America. The same thing they talked about in America, and Biden said that we should give them greater opportunities and better wages. This will create an incentive to go to training and this will create an incentive to go to work in better businesses. You have a problem, I don't know if you understand. In military schools, the rate is 1.2, as much as in medical schools. Don't you know that those who pass, then pass through a series of physical examinations and some people are cut off? We have the following question: There is a possibility in military schools that the entrants will be less. Secondly, don't you know that about 7% to 10% of those entering military schools after two, three months because this life doesn't fit them? We had also established the institution of the parties. Are you going to find any perpetrators? [[At this point the ending bell of the fourth Vice-President of Parliament is ringing.]] Do you know what you're supposed to be? You assume that if we continue with both the time and the time and the length of the process, we will have a reduction in the officers who come out of the three military schools and return slowly with the years of the pyramid, i.e. to a higher degree and very few to a lower level. How do you respond so far? You hope that a lot of people will come in with this cutter and you'll find a solution after that. But this will henceforth be the case for training the Armed Forces officials, with 'we' being seen'?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u187	Please conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u188	Look at things - and I close - are relatively simple and you know them. The Enlightenment and the first industrial revolution turned education from private good to public good, for it needed more in industry. That was the main reason. Neoliberalism made education, education again commercial. But in a society where the value of knowledge is even maximum, apart from educational and economic, good, everyone now follows the opposite direction. You've been behind a few years. We hope and want and fight, the Greek people will not let you take us so far back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u189	Mr Vassilis Digalakis has the floor from New Democracy and then Mr Thanasis Moraitis from SYRIZA. Here, Mr. Digalakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u190	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, with the completion of two years of the New Democracy election victory, we have managed to implement most of our programme in time and we are loyal to our commitments to the Greek people. In fact, all this work has been achieved within a long and special period of pandemic, where there have been particular requirements which we have responded to in a very good way. The Ministry of Education has to show significant legislative work for all these twenty-four months - as this is the sixth series bill - a series of legislation covering all levels of education and technical and vocational training. But before I came to this bill, and because I heard the previous speaker commenting on how the next Minister of Education, Mr. Vitsa, will remember, I would like to tell you that those admitted to departments schools that were created under Mr. Gavroglou's office and went and found departments with no members of the board, without facilities, will be remembered for a very long time. I also didn't understand what your plan was when you set the example of Jukerberg, Bill Gates. Your plan was to enter universities with one, and two, and three to avoid losing in Greece future Zookerberg and Bill Gates? This draft law includes significant changes in the core of which is the evaluation of teachers and training staff, which are rightly compulsory. The evaluation of training staff shall include three general criteria: knowledge of the educational system and the subject matter of the position of the training staff, the exercise of administrative, organisational and educational work, and the operational consistency and adequacy. It is a modern approach, as it allows the top down and the Bottom up evaluation, assessing the training executive both the heads and its existing ones. As far as the evaluation of education is concerned, this is a descriptive assessment on a four-stage scale, and the philosophy is that, if the result of the evaluation is positive, it is a modulated criterion for choice in a position of responsibility, and otherwise the teacher is involved in compulsory training. I really am sad - because I listen to it all the time - when I hear the officers of the Officerial Representation calling training punishment. It's really sad. The bill also attempts to streamline, a much more excellent and balanced structure in structures and in the selection of training executives. A new training structure with a purely pedagogical character is being set up, quality supervisors, both at the level of the regional education department and at the level of the training department. Those supervisors shall ensure that education policy is promoted and implemented in primary and secondary education, including by organising and implementing training programmes, seminars and educational actions for teachers. Because legislation must be realistic and has an effective application, education consultants, from five hundred forty-forty, at regional level and eight hundred at the education directorates, are being increased so that they are closer to the school units. The multidisciplinary evaluation, counselling and support centres are strengthened, including a thousand hundred organic posts, five hundred psychologists and five hundred social workers. However, at this point I would also like to stress the rationalisation of the choice of training directors. The selection criteria now include the evaluation. Very important intervention is the fact that in the personality criterion the interview procedure is described in detail in order to ensure objectivity. We have major changes in the better forming of selection councils, as the elected representatives of teachers are no longer involved, as is the case for the rest of the public, and the presence of ICP members is enhanced. A further pillar of the bill is the strengthening of the autonomy of school units with the possibility of selecting a teaching book from the teacher himself, the possibility of setting up and running educational groups, the introduction of roles of school coordinators and mentor to guide and support integration into the school unit of newly appointed teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, this is clearly a bill with a positive sign, with multiple benefits for the educational community. I call on the Vice-Presidents not to close their eyes and ears on the modern needs of society and above all to support the upgrading of the quality of our children's education. Minister, at this point I would like to propose some legislative changes concerning higher education. In Article 179 I would like to note that 70% of Greek research is carried out at universities and university research institutes have contributed over time to this. Unfortunately, the continuous changes in the institutional framework in higher education have not allowed the evaluation of the institutes to be completed, not on their own responsibility, as they often have made internal evaluations. The period laid down in Article 179 with an extension of the term of office of the administrations until the end of October shall be pressurised. A little longer, at least by the end of the year, should be given to carry out evaluations before the selection of the new administrations and should be carried out smoothly and with merit. Article 185 no longer requires the agreement of the SNE convening for rename or change of a school seat or a department of HEI or cognitive object, but merely an opinion. The state clearly has the overall picture and the last reason to form the map of higher education. It is therefore reasonable to decide, for economic or other reasons, changes, such as the change of head office or department of HSY, even without the agreement of the HSH. However, renamed school and alteration of cognitive objects are decisions with an important academic dimension which cannot be taken without the consent of the university. I think that this should remain the agreement of the competent body, which is the convening body, and be separated from the previous ones. Ladies and gentlemen, in closing my post, let me make a brief reference to the issue of vaccination. The pandemic is still a constant struggle, a constant effort that does not leave any complacentness. As also there is no other misinformation and dispersed non-scientific opinions, which are dispersed and influenced by public opinion. Our students can't stand being away from school anymore and our students being away from college. We have a big gun, the vaccine, a weapon that science gave us, and we have to use it to the maximum extent. We already have over ten million vaccinations and five million fellow citizens fully vaccinated, which is why all of us Members, with the closure of the House, must return to our regions, participate actively in this objective, by promoting the national interest and collective good. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u191	Thank you too, Mr. Colleague. Mr Mauritius has the floor from SYRIZA. Immediately after Mr. Avramakis from SYRIZA, and then Mr. Davakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, while the world is changing with a speed of light on the occasion and pandemic, while the gaze is now turning towards strengthening the social state, defending and upgrading public education and public health, you are consciously turning the back to these changes, developments, new data, you are turning the back into the future. You baptize the fish meat, the analgesia, the exclusion of justice, the return to failed models of the past progress. Of course, injustice, deals, service, cosmopolitanity is evident in every piece of your legislation, always loyal to the tactics of bad and fast-track legislation every time, of course, with a different excuse. So you're bringing a bill into a dead period for the educational community so you don't have any reactions. Once again, you have not had a dialogue and that is why you are far from society. You don't see and you don't understand and you're going to allow me to say that you don't know her or her needs. It is extremely challenging to publish the acceptance of this bill of yours in polls. Because I would like to remind the Minister that the minimum basis was very much accepted in the polls, but we have seen its results. Twenty - thousands of students outside universities and children, who have actually managed to catch their goal or excellence to stay out of the choices they made. For two weeks each day you receive letters from students and parents full of rage and anxiety. Our President read to you today the letter from Helen, the student from Agrinio, and I don't want to say any more. But I want to focus on a point in Helen's letter, and I want to say it, because it was frankly something that even stirred me. So it says: 'Mr Minister, have you heard the word 'dream'?'. And he answers: "It was my dream and this dream, you deprive it." I have another letter from a father from my place, Agrinio. It's a booked letter. His daughter wanted to go to PAD's Writing Department. I would like to remind you, ladies and gentlemen, that last year's base of the PADA Writing Department was eight thousand three hundred and thirty-five and the daughter of this father gathered fifteen thousand and seventy-three molecules and is unable to pass. I would like to point out that this year the basis of the particular section of the ESDP is, under no circumstances, above 13 000 molecules. You're doing the same for the invaders in the CNG. We were in a year when sport had downloaded rolls. You did not think for one moment that many students could not prepare themselves properly to meet the competitions, despite having achieved a high performance in courses. Something else about sport. While you have kept sport closed, as I told you before, at the same time you are actually canceling the surcharge that distinguished athletes are entitled to under the law, since it is not calculated when completing their computers. I think things are clear, as are the questions that come in. What your policy does is to limit students' choices, trap them. I would like to ask: do you really understand the size of injustice, the size of the frustration of these children and their families? You can understand how much of the young children, the children who have spent a difficult school year, away from friends, isolated, pressurized, family children with difficulties, families who are now financially under pressure with pandemic. The minimum import base is an irreversible measure, an unfair measure, a cynical measure, and it is in no way, as the Prime Minister said, a mere unpleasant decision. So she called it today and she takes over, she told us, the political cost in a move of incredible lionism. We invite you, even now, to get it back and not be in effect. Our President has pledged to the Chamber that this injustice will be corrected. But it is clear, ladies and gentlemen, that we represent two different worlds, that we represent two different concepts. It's clear that you're with the collegegirls, with their interests, with your business. You are with elite, because for the elite you have been legislating for two years and you know nothing but your own small world. We want a Greece where no one will be excluded. We are with Greece of justice, equality, equality and equal opportunities. We are two worlds different from each other, and that also appears in our views on education, health, development and work. Your concern is to build a two-speed Greece, and in this you are absolutely consistent, as the Prime Minister said today. It's the only thing that you're consistent with. But ask us too, Minister, in Ioannina, where we have experienced the phenomenon in the middle of a pandemic, that the children of the villages do not have access to the educational platform, which at the moment with your decisions we are seeing university departments in Ioannina shut down and, of course, what half of the importers' positions remain, with what this implies. You, of course, continue unsatisfactory, provocative and cynical. I come to the evaluation, which has been a great deal of talk and must end and cut off the fairy tale and misinformation. SYRIZA, we believe in evaluation. To clear things up, not just do we believe, but SYRIZA has legislated and done with the MAGPs and proceeded with the evaluation. It has worked properly, because it has dealt with evaluation as an interdisciplinary and advisory cooperation, not as a process of sterile and punishing, as you are doing today. That's not all you're doing. Institute the quality supervisor. You're building a multi-manual dysfunctional shape. You strengthen the single-personal authority of the school director and turn him into a school ranger, because for the first time he will be a disciplinary chief and evaluator. You are portraying the modern ones, but you are reintroducing inspection and old-fashioned DNA requires you to choose to establish a new party state in education. Finally, I'm closing up with the experimentals, where you're doing? The good and those who have the financial capacity to do particularly, to go there and everyone else in the other schools, class schools, regions and classroom neighborhoods. That is your policy and that is what you want to impose. The school, however, needs democratic reform. The school of real equal opportunities must be the vehicle for a better future. SYRIZA has also demonstrated in times of commemoration that he can build such a school. We looked and look at teachers, students, students and parents in the face. Your look is about how you dress and serve in the best way the interests you represent. Ours is in society, its needs, in the perspective, to bring about political change, to halt your destructive policies. We'll do it to get the country to hope and progress. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, too. Mr Eleftherios Avramakis has the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u194	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, if Mr Hatzidakis is the man of special missions and the man who does the dirty work, either in the work or in the insurance or in the PPC, you, Mrs. Keramos, as Minister of Education, will remain the greatest class-based minister in favour of the great private interests of colleges. This is done in a two-year, long-term effort. You started by acknowledging professional rights, upgrading college degrees and equilibriuming them with those of higher education and coming on the special import base today to leave more than thirty thousand people outside universities. I have a son, who this year gave all-Greek exams and you can be sure, Minister, that if you had him across the street, you couldn't deal with him with his arguments, as well as many thousand other children. The Government and the Minister of Education insist that every legislative initiative should be baptised, resulting in the deterioration and undermining of the public education system. It is perhaps the first time in Greek history that such a reaction has been recorded, after a pan-Hellenic examination, not by failures, but by successful and even excellent ones. The government's insistence on introducing the minimum import base introduced in mid-school years, in a particularly difficult year due to pandemic and distance education, has caused unprecedented distortions, excluding even excellent pupils from their schools of choice, possibly even from the start of their schooling, if their parents do not have financial comfort and the opportunity to support their studies in schools outside their permanent residence and residence. The reactions are many and will become much more, once the final import bases are announced, when many will find that they do not belong to the schools they believed themselves. Reactions will be multiplied, once the real consequences of the reduction in admissions have been revealed, which will occur in regional universities, which will in fact be hampered. Several departments and schools already have subjects, such as the International University and corresponding schools, based in the town of Serres and our prefecture. The only success of today's Minister, unfortunately, is that he has managed to gather, in summer time, tens of thousands of signatures in a resolution calling for all of these to be removed from the Ministry of Education. As far as the bill under discussion is concerned, it is clear that the government seeks to control through a new, supposedly, evaluation system for the educational community, by forming an industry of dependency and customer relations, which leads to the full reliance of training officials on the party hierarchy of New Democracy. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of the Parliament, Mr Apostolos ABDELAS, takes over the President's seat.]] The mobilisation system of executives, which will have a decisive role in the evaluation of teachers in the class, will deliberately degrade the role of teaching experience, which will overestimate both administrative experience and a number of other criteria, such as the possible writing work, in an evaluation system that is subjective or clearly above-mentioned interventions. In common, training advisers, quality supervisors and regional training supervisors will be executives, seconded by training, to serve in political offices and not just. A model of reproduction of these executives is also adopted, through a dautic system of dependencies, which starts with the school unit. The Director will define, without the Teachers' Association, the tasks that each teacher may undertake in school units, ensuring better moleculation for specific teachers and reduced moleculosis for other teachers. School units and teaching practices will be evaluated by a higher class of teachers, placed in the new hierarchical structure, precisely to fully control the educational community. In fact, the provision of no conscientious liability benefits to all these external evaluators and the subjective way in which they are to be shown will shape a grid of dependencies within the educational community, which will gradually cancel out any progress made towards democratisation and collectiveness, which has developed over the years in the school communities. In addition, the Ministry of Education promotes the school community the director's anachronistic model - authority, where the director will designate the managers, decide and entrust training programmes other than teaching material, manage according to the appropriate school buildings, can ensure the development of the teachers he wishes and narc the development of teachers not coordinated with his own priorities. With this bill, it is now a matter of time that there may be conflicts and intense competition between teachers in the educational community and that the main task, which is the educational project, is to pass on to a second role. The upgrading of directors and the deterioration of the role of teachers' associations, as well as the involvement of parents and pupils in procedures involving the school community, are not irrelevant to the political philosophy of the government, which wants to exercise suffocation in any collective social activity. At the same time, the government, loyal to its stepping-up for self-financed and self-financed schools, takes another step, enabling managers, but also municipal councils, mayors, in essence, to make use of the school buildings for other purposes. The possibility, for example, of using school facilities to carry out CSR programmes, and even before the full-day programme of schools is completed, can cause distortions, disrupt the school environment, give birth to new inequalities between schools, in good and degraded areas. The introduction of pan-Hellenic examination procedures, in essence, to students from the Faculty of Graduate and High School, will bring about a classification of schools according to the performance of students. However, a classification which does not take into account the particular social and cultural appearances of each region. In practice, this would result in what the Government of New Democracy is unfortunately seeking, namely the division of pupils according to their level of education. The Minister of Education may, after the outcry, withdrew the infamous provision which gave the school manager such responsibilities, but this will take place at the time of the start of the school's ranking on the basis of the results obtained in these competitions. Unfortunately, the government, once again, proves that it wants public schools to operate on private-sector criteria, to have revenues and to be able to adapt gradually to the demands of their donors. He does not want a school that prepares responsible and handmade citizens, but a school that prepares flexible and disciplined workers. It does not want a school that multiplies scientists and allows those who start from more unfavourable economic and social conditions, from poor and popular strata, to be able to shape better conditions and better educational prospects, but rather, it will help to reproduce relations of power and dependency. The New Democracy envisions an autocratic school, which does not ask for appointed authorities and does not allow for change. The role of school, however, the role of the public school in particular, is to provide supplies to the new generation, so that it can question, innovate, overthrow the bad texts of society. Unfortunately, both this and a number of previous government initiatives are causing the regression and remedial practices that led to early schoolchildren leaving the educational process. The drafted government officials are only 25% of pupils headed to tertiary education and the remaining 75% of pupils lead to technical education or private education, which is its vision. The Government of New Democracy gradually reveals the mechanism, which will lead to the achievement of this objective, but which is far from the wishes and pursuits of the Greek family. The current New Democracy Government brings to education the most outdated and undemocratic ones the place has known: conservation, authoritarianism, neoliberalism, idealism, commemorative cheques and a service of interest. We commit ourselves as SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance that we will abolish the misery of the minimum import base and restore the rule of law and the possibility of all children from the poor and popular layers to be able to study in public education. We will burden the doubling of the funding of the HEIs and the recruitment of the teachers. We will support the public education system! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u195	Good evening, many years to those who are celebrating today. Thank you, Mr Avramakis. From Serres to Laconia, Mr. Athanasios Davaki of New Democracy. Here, Mr. Davakis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u196	I listen very carefully yesterday and today to the rhetorical krone of Officerial Opposition, which, in a permanent, I would say, Cresento populism, are linking New Democracy with the elite.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u197	No, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no, no!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u198	I mean vocal crowns, Mr. Comrade. A deeply populist party, a party that is legalised as a government today, distracting 40% of the Greek people two years ago, is accused of being charged by you, who have worked five years in the form of party populism called "Independent Greeks", to be committed to interests, implied moneyism and all that compose your account. I believe that our Greek people see, our Greek youth sees and will draw its conclusions. I also believe that what this bill does, by putting a specific legislative framework into primary and secondary education, which after the family is the sole cause of influence on the future of our children, is a specific strategy, a specific reform policy, which should in other times or in other countries, if you like, find the proper support of all the wings. Sadly, however, once again this is not the case, mainly under the responsibility of the Officerial Response. I believe that the bill we are discussing today, ladies and gentlemen, is a broad, as I have said, an important reform effort to change our educational system and is mainly moving on three lines. At the first point in decentralising decision-making, because, as the Minister quite rightly said, up to 80% of the decisions have been taken at the heart of what this means for the imprinting of any reality in the various parts of our country, while 35% of the decisions are taken in other countries, as well as for issues that have to do with the choice of books, the multiple assessment options for pupils and the operation of educational groups, namely the possibility of self-action by teachers on the personalities, the specific features of children who are trained, which they best know how to manage and how to train. The idea that decentralisation of decision-making will increase the functionality of our educational institutions nor frighten us should nor disincentive us. Because I believe that this creates modernism and progressiveity in the most important institution of the state, if you wish, along with the national defence, in terms of its mission, which is the training of the new Greeks. Increased autonomy is, however, a condition for a specific and elementary quality control, a quality laid down by Articles 57 to 65, which provides for a specific coherent and objective evaluation mechanism. In the assessment, which you are relying on and analysing and unfolding your account, I have to say that no conscientious public minister has anything to fear from anyone, if you want, an evaluation system. This is particularly true of our teachers, who, in their own right, with their self-determination, are inclined to train our children and want to assess, if you wish, and as a measure of justice against a minority that does not seek it. In fact, the attempt to subdue old fears and stereotypes of inspection, the bogeyman - inspector, and control clearly betrays your left conservatism and the political steepness of the immoral forces that, unfortunately, you represent. It is a small retrograde, and it does not, ladies and gentlemen, have the legitimacy to keep the training on these stereotypes. Also, a third axis of our educational structures is to strengthen them, as this seems, for example, by setting up eight hundred post offices of educational consultants, as defined in Article 10 of the draft law. At this point I would like to set an example from my place, Sparta, who students of Sparta's PSA - we need to see this, Minister - ask for the third high school speciality to be available to the nurse. I think that, because you and your State Secretary, Mrs Makre, have been enthusiastic enough on the issues of vocational education, specialities should be provided for in connection with everyday life or with the practice of various regions, such as Sparta, which, in two or three years' time, the Stavros Niarchos Foundation has set up and will have built its new hospital. I think you need to see it so there can be a good prospect, if you like, for these kids. I know that you have shown great interest in vocational training, and that is why I stress this. Ladies and gentlemen, the school, education, issues relating to our children, must unite all the wings of this Chamber and not create breaches, fears, insecurity and populism. I think that the Civic Opposition, but also other parties, could show another character, another political self in this crucial bill of reformist and progressive legislation, which the government's legislative initiative brought together. There was no such thing and it shows, once again, the Conservation of the Left, which is a fascinating one, but also the political self-interest, which distinguishes you, and many times we see it reminiscent of your past, but also giving a prospect of election, saying that in subsequent elections Mr. Tsipras will change the 'bad texts', as you call them. The Greek people see us, and when the elections take place they will decide once again and raise the issues as they must with regard to the political responsibilities that they see you in. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u199	Thank you too, Mr Davaki, for keeping time. From Laconia we pass to Boeotia and more specifically to Mrs Panagios Poulos from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u200	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, three days ago we celebrated the forty-seventh anniversary of the restoration of democracy in our country, although we did not miss the institutional challenge of canceling the falsification of the rescuer Jasona Apostolopoulos after intervention by the New Democracy Government and for which we expect official answers. After a catastrophic seven-year-old dictatorship, democracy finally returned to its birthplace on July 24, 1974. No one could predict then that during the period we call Transmigration Greek society would finally experience democratic stability and progress by governments with different ideologies and social instruments. A progress with a social state, protection of work and housing, with public health and, of course, with free public education. However, for the first time at the wheel of the country, a government determined to dismantle one - one of these social and economic foundations, on which modern Greece was built, to overthrow all the historical social conquests of the Greek people and to set up a harsh class dystomia of the privileged, the "logue", the supposed excellent ones, who dominate thanks to the power of money and their involvement with power. We are in Greece where the New Democracy Government gives a degrading tip to the workers 0.52 cents of the euro as a symbolic increase in the minimum wage for the last three years, while the Prime Minister himself forgets to say to the "underground" assets, no more than symbolic. Ladies and gentlemen of the Government, it is no coincidence that the important social progress mechanism of the non-preferential Greeks has been introduced into the university since the first time. Many Members in Parliament's Chamber are not here as fruits of political jackals, but as examples of this very possibility. With the minimum basis for introducing Law 4777, which is, in fact, the maximum basis for exclusion, with this "dream cutter" you managed to exclude from the universities twenty-five thousand students, of course, looking forward to sending a lot of customers to colleges and indeed, without considering the unprecedented difficulties facing candidates in their preparation this year, the pandemic that left them out of order, teletext, as has been done with great disparities between them. Listen, Minister, what is written to you by a student, an authentic master, a future colleague of mine, who, although he raised almost twenty-two thousand molecules, with your minimum import base, excluded it from the Architecture School he chose. The student writes to you: "I feel disappointed, unjust and betrayed and betrayed by you personally, but also by all the government that is supposed to embrace and treat the exquisite, that he wants them in Greece and in Greek education. This unfair system with three different minimum bases of introduction, for the Architecture in particular, excluded not only me, but also twenty-five thousand students from the HEIs and their dream of a decent adult life." I personally answer her not to give up her dream. What did you answer, Mrs. Kerameau? And what are you responding to the citizens of Fokida, but also to your colleague Mr Buga who personally guaranteed the operation of the two university departments in Amphissa, and now with your policy, both are in danger of being abolished. We urge you to respond to what will happen with the dozens of regional divisions that will be abolished throughout the country, as well as in my region of Central Greece. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill we are debating today, the primary and secondary education is to suffer the consequences of government deregulation and counter-reformation. And here the government uses the language of misleading. As when it says an import basis means an exclusion basis, so when it says in the title of the bill for the upgrading of education it means its degradation and when it talks about strengthening teachers, it means their weakening. Because your real goal, Ministers, is a school without democracy and democracy, without collectiveness and participation, without educational framework and principles. You want a school controlled by you where customer relations and favorableness, bureaucracy, centralism and opacity will prevail. The deep class and ideological suspicion of the work of the Greek teacher, as well as the transparent and effective institutions of the educational community, is clearly seen in your bill. That is why you are setting up a swan of single-faced organs chosen by you and evaluated and mobilised among themselves without any objective criteria and effective control. You are therefore abolishing the pioneering and successful institution of the regional educational planning centres because collective representation in the design of your educational work is disturbing. You hate pluralism, because you can't control it. You replace them with a heavy and steadfast hierarchical structure, depending on you with a huge number of executives, missions and subordinates, training advisers, quality supervisors, quality regional supervisors and go by and say. It is clear that your aim is not the teaching support of schools, but the application of opaque individual evaluation practices and therefore the manipulation of teachers. The same objective is also served by the deterioration of the Association of Teachers, the historic collective institution, which brought democracy to school. You are now taking away all essential resolute responsibilities, because very simply, you do not trust the fighters, those who have a great deal of experience in the classroom. How else can you explain the criteria that you apply to the selection of training staff? Teachership in the classroom will no longer be an essential condition since scandalous administrative criteria are provided. Here I will mention two examples of related omissions and even injustices, which you must correct, Minister. First of all, you need to recognize the teaching service for those responsible for the operation of environmental education centres as well as staff at the various KESY, KESYP and GRASY Advisory Centres, GRAESPA. [[This is where the ending bell of the honourable Member's speech is ringing.]] Mr President, I will need a minute. In particular, the latter should be allowed to remain with or to remain with a personal position in the JEPs at their respective address with a choice as GSP or GSP. In addition, with regard to the selection boards of training staff, we find their manipulation, since their members will be appointed by a majority of your Ministry, while the elected representatives of the teachers are completely executed. We have also seen what your real intentions are with the arbitrary, non-criteria and ranking of candidates for the placement of training directors in the summer of 2020. Their selection was made by a donor board with some members directly from the Ministry, so that the vast majority of the new directors are exclusively trade unionists of the IAEA. The party decommissioning of the administration of education by blue executives is now provided on a permanent basis by this draft law. Finally, your obsession with controlled centralised institutions also results from the superpowers that you give school directors to the detriment of the school club. Ladies and gentlemen, the Mitsotakis Government is systematically demolishing the structure of public and free education, but society will not be left with crucifixed hands. To date, sixty-two thousand people have signed the request for the resignation of the Minister and the abolition of the disastrous minimum import base. As promised by our President, Alexis Tsipras, the primary concern of the next progressive government SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance will be the abolition of all anti-educational laws in New Democracy and the restoration of the injustice of the blockades you have caused. Be sure that in the next polls citizens will set a high import base and New Democracy will be excluded from the country's governance. Thank you very much, Mr President, for your tolerance. [[Applause from the SYRIZA wing]] Mr Athanasios Kavada has the floor from New Democracy. Let Mrs. Jufi get ready, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u201	Thank you, Mr President. Madam Minister, Madam Secretary, ladies and gentlemen, the government with this bill is moving on to another deep reform in the field of education. I understand that concepts such as reform, excellence and evaluation are intolerant to Civic Opposition. But the distance that separates SYRIZA from the needs of education, as well as the perceptions of the majority of citizens, is great. 70.9% of citizens are in favour of the minimum import base at universities. Even from SYRIZA voters 62.2% are in favour of controlled entry into universities and 55.7% are in favour of the minimum import base. Who wants, finally, the universities of lawlessness instead of places of knowledge and free movement of ideas? Who wants universities, where 40 percent of students never graduate? The majority want modern education with progressive reforms. The Government of New Democracy, the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis has made its choice. It moves forward in areas, implements its programme commitments approved by the people. It applies practices in all countries with advanced educational systems. It upgrades the role of school and teachers, frees the creative initiative for students and teachers. Because we want a school which is more autonomous and more free, we want the decentralisation of education. We seek to get away from the close control of the Ministry and get into the hands of teachers and school units. So we strengthen school autonomy, giving teachers an initiative on how to organize teaching. Teachers can freely choose the book from which they will teach among the approved books of the Institute for Education Policy. At the same time, students and teachers will also have access to other teaching books, in digital format, as well as to a rich digital library with complementary material. This encourages critical thinking rather than memorizing and papaya. At the same time, teachers are given the opportunity to decide how to carry out the quarterly evaluation tests. For example, the examination may be replaced by the individual or group work of the students on a topic to be chosen by the teacher. In this way, the teacher is given the opportunity to use those methods, which he considers appropriate for the evaluation of his pupils. An important reform is the introduction of national examinations at the Faculty and High School for assessing the educational process in Pisa. These examinations are anonymous, they are diagnostic in nature, they are carried out to evaluate the effectiveness of the educational system and they do not play a role in assessing the performance of pupils. Such examinations are carried out in countries such as Sweden, Denmark, Norway and Great Britain. Ladies and gentlemen, the evaluation is one of the parameters of this bill. We must all realise that there cannot be improvement and progress without evaluation. The framework of evaluation of teachers, introduced by the government, aims not to punish but to improve education, and is linked to training. This is a common practice, followed by 90% of European countries. At the same time, some very important provisions on church education are being introduced. People graduating from church education perform a high function, with a great social and educational imprint. The new provisions ensure the reorganisation and upgrading of church education. Secondary church education is now part of general education and is under the supervision of the State. In addition, schools of apprenticeships of candidate clergymen are being created, a post-training structure, which was indeed a permanent desire of the Church of Greece and our Holy Synod. Moreover, a clergyman will only be paid by the public if he is a graduate of the HEI or a graduate of the apprenticeship school an additional incentive to ensure the quality of church education and its graduates. Finally, Minister, I would like to ask you to consider the possibility of including the Ionian University in the amendment to the housing allowance, which you are giving to the first-year students of the University of Thrace, Western Macedonia and the Aegean. As you know, in the Ionian Islands finding and renting a student residence is often difficult. With tourism there are not many available accommodations and what is available is expensive for students. Therefore, Minister, a housing subsidy would be beneficial to children who choose to study in the objects offered by the Ionian University. The four New Democracy Members of the Ionian Islands have submitted a letter to you on this matter, and I would like to ask you, too, from this Step by step. Ladies and gentlemen, the government is moving towards a tangible upgrading of all education. Last year, special treatment was first strengthened with four thousand five hundred permanent teachers. This year eleven thousand seven hundred young permanent teachers will support primary schools and high school. Thousands of psychologists and social workers are recruited for the Advisory and Support Centres to meet the needs of general and vocational education schools. Standards and experimental schools have been multiplied. Indeed, in Lefkada, for the first time, an experimental school will work and our response from local society, from parents and students, was very positive. The new laws on secondary and vocational education have brought sectors and have improved the quality of universities and structures for training and vocational training. Today, the new educational landscape is complemented by this law for the new school. For all of your work, in these two years, Minister and Minister, you deserve congratulations. Ladies and gentlemen, the future goes through the path of major reforms and changes. This is the way the New Democracy Government opens it up every day, through institutional and legislative initiatives, which are supported by a large majority of citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u202	Thank you, Mr. Kavada. Mrs Merope Jufi has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, for two years the students, teachers, families, schools and universities have been hostages of a policy that organises and shrinks the public education system, day after day and law. So the bill we are debating today is in exactly the same direction, turning to the government the whole world of education, parental movement and the new generation. However, the Prime Minister and Mrs Kerameos have chosen to deal with the first issue polls. Is that how we go, Minister? Will the education policy of the country be determined on the basis of the polls you order? What consents have you reached in the last two years of your service and with whom have you been dialogued? No one. All of you have turned your back and it's against your policy. This is recorded in another poll, which you do not hear. It was recently published in “NEWS 247” and shows that 70% of society disagrees with your work in education, ranks you among the worst ministers of this government, both in general and especially in your handling during the pandemic, since you managed to excellence pan-European by leaving schools and universities closed for two years. In space, therefore, this and the educational community, as well as society as a whole, found the opportunity to pass other anti-educational and anti-social measures. You have increased - unprecedentedly, global originality - the number of pupils in kindergartens and in primary schools, bring back the theme bank, rip out the social and artistic lessons from schools, make minor and unpaid apprenticeship law, try to install cameras in the classes, as well as make televised education, no matter what the educational and psychosocial burden of the students of the pandemic. But, in order not to be unfair, you did all the favours of college owners and private schools, of the only ones who strongly support you, fund you and welcome you at every opportunity. We also saw it in the Committee on Morphics when their representatives were talking about public school - an endless school that has not been able to enter the 20th century. You, Mrs Kerameus, instead of defending public education, as I think you should have been institutional, have taken them in the affirmative. Sadly, the provisions of the bill are entirely inspired by this perception and culture. It is no coincidence that in this legislation you have taken care to incorporate what the lenders asked of us during the memorial and austerity periods. At the same time, legislate, as if the pandemic never existed and you do not care about its consequences in education, you are not preparing for the safe opening of schools in September, and you are baptising a reform of the war you have started with the educational community. You spoke extensively of the evaluation of teachers. In fact, you have assured - until a few days ago - that there is no punishing provision and that we are in danger, because this is how opposition is doing. However, after the end of the public consultation you added articles to the bill, which provide for disciplinary measures, wage cuts and non-wage developments. Of course, you're not bringing anything new. It is a refined version of the Arvanitopoulos Law - Mitsotakis, which in 2013 made available - two thousand five hundred teachers of vocational education. So these provisions do not improve anything you say, quality, efficiency, democracy. In fact, I was very surprised today by what Mr Mitsotakis said that democratisation is a downward level. The country's Prime Minister has a great understanding of the democratic functioning of schools. This may explain also the provisions for the manager - and the undermining of the teachers' club: arbitraryness, bureaucracy and centralization, which schools lead to market embrace and its rules. This is also the vision of the New Democracy for the autonomy of school units: Terrorism in funding and the search for sponsorships to cope with. Even the provisions on church education have multiple problems and create reactions in a field that is theoretically privileged for the governments of New Democracy. You did not tell us about the enclosure you put in the High Ecclesiastes Academy of Vellas and Thessaloniki, but mainly you did not convince the directly interested, similar to the Rizarios School. Mrs Kyrame, you have not told us why, on what criteria, you are not going to close, even though the Sacred Sacred Synod shows you to be fully responsible for this decision. But how do we talk about improving education when the government within this unprecedented pandemic framework imposed the minimum import base and rushed to implement it without a trace of empathy for the thousands of children who, in very difficult circumstances, tried to complete their studies and give the battle for higher education. The main argument is that they're entering universities with white glue. These, of course, collapsed with the publication of the minimum bases for department and school. We've asked you many times, Mrs. Keramos, but we didn't get an answer: How many do you get into Higher Education Institutions with such low ratings when you know that exactly these tests are not adequacy tests, but a classification? I told you many things about what we had done as SYRIZA in this direction. Unfortunately, today's no time. However, you have abolished all efforts. So testify to the evidence, if you have the courage, and document your political positions with evidence rather than propaganda. What happened? That even excellent students are excluded from their first choices. They send you letters, they move in court, they gather signatures and they ask for the resignation measure to be suspended. What answer do they get from you? You tell them cynicism that it's okay, let them overthrow their family planning and budget and go to another city, to another university, even if they wrote two thousand more molecules, or if they want to go to IEK, because you say that you have predicted parallel computers. That's the ultimate deception. It is a regulation which has been in existence since 1992, in which one can register with the high-school diploma. Now what are you doing? The popular specialties of IEK do not have them available. Only 50% of the specialities are found in parallel computerized and 1/3 of available positions, i.e. six thousand positions. The rest of you-- why did you tell me it was going to be for twenty-six thousand -- where are they going? Let's go to private! We have also told you in the committees today. Admit it. You are planning the minimum import base to reduce the number of importers by 30% and to redirect young people and young people either to private colleges or to foreign universities or to cheap training, depending on their class position and financial capabilities. Give us the numbers of rejected and the quality elements. A clear classicity arises. It rejects 85% of the graduates of the summer high school and 50% of the daily PSAs. If it's different, let's hear it. Of course, we have also heard from Prime Minister Mitsotakis today the misleading figures for the graduation rate, precisely because that fits your political plan. I would call it 'grek statistics'. You're used to it in the past. Or it is similar to that famous: "Sixteen students in the class are health-proof," when you had to do the dissolution of the students. But the reality of the numbers is disgusting to you. Our country is entirely within the European objectives, depending on the number of young people receiving an AEI, and the graduation number is similar to the majority of the countries of the European Union. Our President Alexis Tsipras and our rapporteur Nikos Friends, who show that we are going the way we should be in the European Union, while your projects are going back in the 1970s and 1980s. Stop blaming one of the candidates and one of the universities that set the rates. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] What's missing in the universities? You blackmailed it, Mrs. Kerameau. By subscribing and cutting the funding by 20%, they are trying, by applying this basis, to make savings for the incumbents. I would like to refer to a more specific point, Rule 185. You say that we have established sections with parliamentary amendments. It was very little, and it never worked. We had in the process of unification unanimous decisions of the Senates in the context of their strategic planning, and you dismantled these departments with a monocol, while you said they would be evaluated. What are you doing now? Authorize yourself to establish, abolish, rename, change language objects in universities in simple opinion and not decision of the Senate. And this directly destroys the self-interest of universities. That is Rule 185, which we shall put into roll-call vote. We have therefore asked you to withdraw the measure and accept the amendment tabled by the SYRIZA Parliamentary Group for the suspension of the EES, but also the other amendments.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u204	Finish this, my colleague.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u205	I shall conclude, Mr President. I will stay in one that is very important, because you have said that you will do so, to restore the eighty-eight thousand graduates of EPAs, whose degrees have been downgraded by another bill, and indeed retrospectively since 2016. I'm closing up with this. For us, education is a right for everyone. We will not allow it to become a privilege for a few. We are sure that we stand on the right side of history, because children are patriots of the sun and not customers nor servants of the havings, random and predators. We stand on the side of all these children, who require education, better life, decent working conditions and proud wages, and we will tell these children the fate of the sun together. Get your head up, guys! In the introductorys of the future, those who fail will be the rulers. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u206	Thank you, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u207	Mr President, I would like to speak.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u208	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u209	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to put forward legislative improvements. I would like to point out an indication that has been highlighted by a body at the hearing. We were asked by the regional directorates to choose not only one regional directorate, but more. We've extended it. We have heard exactly this comment, it has been recorded and we have incorporated it into legislative improvements. I'm tabling them for the Minutes. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u210	Thank you too, Minister. Mr. George Amanatidis, Mr. Kosanitis, from New Democracy, and Mr. Baraliakos prepares. Here, Mr Amanatidis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, ladies and gentlemen, for many years we have been constantly talking, within and outside Parliament, about pathogens in education, about misery, trivialisation, lack of evaluation. So I ask, should we not finally find a bold government, make those decisions that give answers to what we are debating? So, with this draft law, which is part of the holistic two-year effort of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs for the overall upgrading of public and private schools, vocational education, training and lifelong learning, and a number of other initiatives, the arrangements which I will mention below are being promoted. And all this with what? With human resources to strengthen this joint effort. Last year the government proceeded to four and a half thousand permanent recruitments, with assignments through ASP and Special Education and education. We now move on to another eleven thousand seven hundred permanent assignments, which will also be appointed with the AACC instead of five thousand two hundred fifty, originally scheduled. Of course, we must know - and we know and say - that these appointments are the first after twelve years. Thus, in practice, it proves that the government is fully implementing its electoral commitments in the field of education. Society sees them. He knows and not only supports these changes, but also requires them. This has, moreover, been seen in a recent survey, which has been carried out beyond parties, ideas and positions, thirsty for quality education, for rationalizing education and the educational system, for a better school, an autonomous school and a university. In the light of the above considerations, this draft law requires and carries out deep areas in education, as we have heard from the Minister, but also from the Prime Minister at noon. Where? In four pillars, the autonomy of the school unit - it was not answered when the Prime Minister asked - the evaluation of teachers, the structures of education, but also of church education. Now, in relation to the first pillar, namely strengthening the autonomy of the units, the fact is that our country has one of the most centralised educational systems, models of education administration. It is obvious - it has been recorded - that about 80% of the decisions concerning the decentralised operation of educational units are taken by the centre. On the contrary, what does international experience show? Those decisions, based on the principle - in introductory form - of 'assistance' are taken decentralized by the services and addresses of the school units themselves, have a greater effect than that alone. They have the greatest effect on management, but the learning results of the students are also improved. In this context, and as part of the first initiative, confidence in teachers is strengthened and freedom is given to the organization of teaching. So there is an opportunity for teachers to choose a multitude of books, from which they will teach, so that they can end a model of biblicentric - let me say - a model of memorisation, which they have up to now and go to a new model - let me say again - a cognitive model. Greece and Cyprus cannot continue to be the only examples of countries in the European Union that have a unique school manual. Of course, the material that will be taught and from which the information will be collected will be approved and available in a digital library, so that teachers can direct students to more choices. Secondly, the role of director and teachers in positions of responsibility is strengthened. As explained in detail at committee meetings and by the Minister of State, the Director of the Greek School has the fewest responsibility for managing local issues, namely school issues from any other European Union country, which certainly makes it difficult to strengthen autonomous operation. What has been observed in the systems where managers are real managers and are decentralised by the school units? The results are also higher in terms of the performance of pupils. There is a system of increased transparency, where all the heads are controlled by the existing ones, often anonymously and on an annual basis by teachers. The second pillar establishes a mechanism for evaluating the work of teachers as a mechanism for improving and strengthening them. I therefore wonder with all those who disagree with the evaluation process. I do not really understand the reason why any educational system can be improved if it does not take a self-assessment and so if it does not lead to basic conclusions that will lead to improvement. The evaluation is therefore a necessary condition, I would say, for the operation of school units in a decentralised form. Why? Because more freedom also requires a system of control and balance. After all, it is common practice in 90% of the countries of the European Commission. It is a few countries that do not carry out evaluations. But the Greek society in 70% of the respondents is positive, it wants it, it judges evaluation positively. Of course, we must note that the evaluation is not quantitative. Describe on one scale. It's qualitative. It is the scale 'excellent','very good','satisfactory', 'unsatisfactory'. Its evaluation and results are a mechanism to place teachers in positions of responsibility. On the contrary, to teachers where evaluation is not positive, they are simply not given the chance to raise. In other words, it is an evaluation that aims not only to highlight those evaluated positively, but to provide opportunities for improvement for a further effort by all the others. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] So a question arises again, though and why evaluation is bothering some. When the evaluation is carried out in the private sector, we do not see why it should not be done in the public sector. Of course, the evaluation of teachers is evaluated accordingly, and this is something very important, because this will only lead to a continuous improvement - step by step. In relation to the third pillar, i.e. strengthening the structures of education, we have changes in two levels, in education support structures and in criteria and in the selection process. With the fourth pillar - and I slowly close - a system of church education is introduced, an organized system where the main aim is to upgrade the education level of the clergy. There are three apprenticeship schools, two years each, first year theoretical training and second year practical training. It is also foreseen that clergymen may be paid by the Greek State only if they hold a diploma from a clerical school or from an HEI. Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, with this bill we are continuing - it has been heard by a number of colleagues earlier - and we are promoting a grid of major changes aimed at the overall upgrading of schools, the supply of skilled pupils, and the strengthening, support and upgrading of human resources. We cannot continue to stay back, forcing people to watch, let me say, when everything is moving in the European Union at a rapid pace. For this reason, I am sorry that while there should be unanimity on many issues and especially on the issues of education where it should be seen as a given and self-evident, there are divergent trends, not to say, it will also be a good thing to improve the provisions of the draft law. So the present draft law is an incision to education, makes changes that are imposed by the evolution of things and, above all, requires that the Greek society is now aggregated. These are changes that are visible, they will be visible and that is why we must see them. With these considerations, I am voting in favour of the provisions of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much. We will remain in the New Democracy. Mr. Xenophon Baraliacos has the floor. Please keep the time. Because there are questions, although Mr Bourras mentioned it, I repeat it myself, today we will be closing with Mrs Constantina Adamou, that is, we will finish the eighth cycle and tomorrow morning at 10: 00. Here, Mr. Baraliaco, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, the debate on a bill that radically upgrades the school through a series of targeted reforms, which have been formulated after exhaustive dialogue with the educational community, SYRIZA, who deserves to note that it did not come to the invitation of the Ministry's leadership in consulting the bill, decided with its well-known methods and disorientated it, but much more to turn it into a personal and immoral attack on the Minister, Mrs Kerameos. Refusing to accept that society applauds the imprint left by the government's reforms in the field of education, it chooses to divest once again in a dangerous populism which implicates their own students and families. The most impressive, of course, is that the voters of SYRIZA are drafted by a majority. Today's law on the upgrading of school comes to be added to this series of reformist divisions, which condensates our visionary orientation for education with a national badge and our wider strategic planning to regain the institutional arsenal that will enable our children to face the challenges of the future. So while discussion and parliamentary dialogue should have moved around the central axis of the draft law on the evaluation of teachers, flexibility, adaptability, but also the autonomy of the school unit, in order to highlight our ideological disagreements which are controversy and which start from a different starting point, you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, not only have tried to alter the nature of the bill, but have chosen to personally target the Minister and her family. It is a parliamentary reproach, in the absence of structured and clear arguments, to involve the personal and family life of our political opponents in the political criticism. The only one who must feel ashamed of this kind of debate, ladies and gentlemen, is Mr Philis, who not only recalls and apologizes for this behaviour, but insists on his statements with the cover of the SYRIZA leadership. Of course, SYRIZA's leadership did not hesitate, with a resalt populism, to step on the agony, the uncertainty and the sadness of those candidates, who did not get their goal. He promised to all these young children the abolition of the minimum import base, but also the possibility of submitting a computerised form with this year's figures, in 2022, as we heard this morning by Mr Tsipras. But he did not tell us how this can be done because neither we have elections, but as everything shows with what you are doing and you say you will stay in the opposition for many years. All of this reminds us of old times - not too distant - that you would abolish the memorials with a law and an article. A "new programme of Thessaloniki" for education has been heard today by the President of SYRIZA. But this time, ladies and gentlemen of SYRIZA, the Greek citizens know you, they have taught you and have tasted the bitter fruits of your disastrous government and two years after the takeover of power by the Government of New Democracy they continue to trust our programme, our commitment to our reform work, and our effective ability to manage major and serious crises and not to hesitate to promote bold programmes for the benefit of our young people. Ladies and gentlemen, it really separates us from an ideological abyss. We're two different worlds, and they all admit that. We want equality of opportunity for all, not the equalisation of all downwards. We believe in excellence, we regard it as social health, and we are not one of those who turn it down as a retreat. We see education as a means of social mobility upwards and that is only achieved by laying rules and applying evaluation rather than by rewarding the minor effort. We want mature and responsible citizens who stand on their feet with their own powers and do not depend on a paternalist state. This bill is based on a spirit of renewal, harmonisation with best practice at European level and best exploits the greatest advantage of Greek school, teachers. Ladies and gentlemen, we are today voting for the architecture of a better school that will liberate the creative and endless forces of both our children and our teachers with evaluation, a reliable system of administration, with a focus on positive thinking and analytical capacity. We support the bill to upgrade the school and strengthen our teachers and we are ready to safeguard our self-evidentness against dangerous populism acronyms. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u214	Thank you too for keeping time. They're celebrating from my left! Mrs Harula (Hara) Kafantaris is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance, which is elected in the B2 West Athens area. Get Mr. Kotroyas ready. Here, Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Before I begin my position on the draft law we are debating, I would like to say a great deal of thanks to the firefighters, the men and women of the Fire Corps, who fight the flames in Greece in general, but also here in Attica with the serious incident, which exists in the northwest Attica. This is not a time of criticism or conclusions. What is urgent is that this evil ends with the minimal losses. Anyway, whatever conclusions are, I'll see you later. But what I wanted to say, Minister, because you are presently representing the government on the benches, is that there is information that firefighters from all over Greece, who have come to Attica, are hosted in COVID hotels. I would suggest that you investigate it and, if that really is the case, give it a quick answer. I come to the draft law we are discussing. Upgrading of school and strengthening of teachers’ is the title of the bill. However, I would say that the real title and the right one should be: 'Guarantee of public school, manipulation of teachers'. Take a look, Minister, what is going on in our educational system and in public schools today. The pandemic created some new conditions, such as teletext, but not all. We have also seen events all over Greece, how the means were for students to attend. We also have associations of parents and guardians, who have been active in finding laptop or tablet, to enable children to watch. At least in my constituency I know what happened and especially in the Municipality of Agia Barbara. We saw the mammoth masks, which we forgot about, the means the public gave for our children. We saw the increase in the number of students in classes with Mrs Kerame's bill last year in the middle of a pandemic. We've seen schools inappropriate even in a container course. In fact, I would point out that some schools from the earthquake of July 8, 2019, in West Athens and the Municipality of Aigaleo, have not yet been restored. This is the reality in public education. Of course, the minimum import base which excludes children from higher education. You legislated these in the middle of a pandemic. The Minister has said many times, her main argument, that with 3 and 8, students and new students cannot enter universities - of course in colleges, there is no control - and the perfect ones must enter. But we saw from the results that you deceived the world and the young people once again, because the perfect ones finally couldn't get into the schools that they wanted, which were their dream. On the other hand, we cannot say that you are using arguments with alchemy numbers. President Alexis Tsipras proved this at noon in his position. I will say it myself and I will once again give the copy of the Bank of Greece. It says that in the eighteen to twenty-four in 2009, 14.2% did not finish their studies, while in 2018 this figure fell to 4.7%. So you are using any arguments you want to really cover this catastrophic for education and for our youth that is taking place. But all this, apart from others, shows what? Lack of social empathy. You are far from society and from its needs because you are exacerbating and intensifying inequalities. The Prime Minister also told Thessaloniki in 2019 that I cannot imagine a society without inequality is contrary to human nature. On the other hand, in West Athens, let Peristeri become coolers, they will become scientists in Katali. The Prime Minister has said that. Even recently he said to BSE: "It's okay, not everyone needs to study or go to the school that they accidentally entered. There are other options and they will find their lives and they will be happy." Apart from the fact that we heard yesterday and a Member of the New Democracy Parliament that the market is the people. Only the market is colleges, private IEKs and training which replaces education. This is what you always do according to the idealism of the New Democracy and that market you serve. You have legislated on this. I am specifically coming to the Legislation on autonomy. The government, with the school's autonomy, is trying to take out the real responsibility of the state, the state for the operation and financing of public school and public education from the castle. This autonomy will lead to the future, not to say immediately, in class differentiation, the categorisation of schools and, more generally, the hunting of donors, so that they can function. These are systems that have also been implemented elsewhere, in other countries and of course have failed. Of course, we say that the management of labour issues will go to the municipalities. There is this proposal, this relevant OECD report. I don't know where we'll be. Now for the evaluation, you are deceiving once again as a Ministry when you say it will be descriptive, not quantifiable and that it will not be punishable and so on. But there are also penalties within and in articles, namely for declaring, wage cuts, for cases where executives are excluded for a number of years, eight years to become teachers, to take up a post of staff and others, while there is a question about the neo-definitionists, who are judged for their perpetuality, how this thing will work. However, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, teachers themselves do not deny the evaluation. However, an assessment which will not be punishable, which will not lead to stagnation in the future, is not yet known - and we do not know - of dismissal. After all, we know - and teachers have experienced this on their back - Mr Mitsotakis as Minister of Administrative Reform in 2014, what redundancies were made especially in technical education. So they're afraid of it and that really makes sense. However, we are talking about evaluation and want evaluation modern with the aim of upgrading the school itself, the education system itself and upgrading the school education project as a whole. This draft law clearly shows the aims of linking education to the labour market in a way that seems to be the result of poor education. You give weight to the constant storage of knowledge, to learn skills rather than to study humanitarian, holistic education of our young people, which is required, while - at the very important time - you degrade and weaken collective bodies of teachers by monitoring teachers with many superpowers to the manager, quality supervisors, the regional manager. You remind us, to us the oldest, the institution and the role of inspector in at least my own years. And all this so that there are no objections, no reactions. The collective opinion turns it into one's ideal. Why? Why do you despise on the basis of your ideology, gentlemen of the New Democracy, whatever collective. We see this in all the bills, a dominance-centre system, reintroduce a management system to education, enter with the bill, into individuality and individual labour contracts instead of all collective agreements, that is, individual and not collective.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u216	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u217	I conclude, Mr President, and thank you for the time, and I say this: the title of the bill should be 'good-bye to the democratic school you know'. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u218	Be well. Mr. Georgios Kotrias from Nea Democratia and the beautiful Phthytida and Mr. Papaliou prepare.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, today's bill is of particular importance as our children's education defines the future and the future of our country. The bill is a real reform because on the one hand it puts a brake on the chronic distortions of our educational system on the other, it organises with specific, modern standards and attempts to improve the overall level of primary and secondary education through the rationalisation of the educational system and the promotion of the autonomous school. If it is not combined with the recent law on higher education, post-training technical education, it is certain that it will contribute to the well-considered upgrading of Greek education. Reforms of the bill are based on three main pillars. Firstly, in education structures, secondly, in the evaluation of teachers and thirdly, in the autonomy of the school unit. With regard to its first pillar, it is intended to upgrade the quality of public education through the institutional structure of the structures of education by defining merital procedures for the selection of its executives. The bill strengthens the essential contribution of officials to the implementation of educational policies in schools, to the support of pupils and teachers and to the training and evaluation of teachers. So, among other things, education structures are being set up with a purely pedagogical character, eight hundred training counsellors are being set up, school guidance officers are appointed in the Directorates of Education and advising offices are being set up and, lastly, multidisciplinary evaluation, advisory and support centres are being established with the setting up of a thousand new organic posts of psychologists and social workers in schools to ensure equal access for all pupils to education and their social development and progress. With regard to the second pillar, which concerns the evaluation of teachers and managers, it is clear that in a modern society evaluation is a prerequisite for improving the system by improving human resources. That is why, in polling with a 70% overwhelming proportion of people want education staff to be evaluated. The basic principles of this system are, therefore, only impartiality, professional competence and efficiency for the provision of quality education. The evaluation of teachers supports efforts to train and improve them, in order to have a comprehensive professional development. The work of teachers shall be documented on a four-stage descriptive scale in terms of their teaching and pedagogical work and in terms of their service consistency and adequacy. The positive results of the evaluation will be a modulated criterion for their selection in positions of responsibility and negative training will result in an improvement in their performance. It is clear that evaluation does not affect work, but has a reward and an improvement character for teachers. The third pillar seeks to decentralise the educational system in the country, which currently has one of the most centralised educational systems in the European Union, as 80% of decisions relating to the functioning of the school are made at a central level as opposed to most countries where this figure is 35%. The present arrangements demonstrate in practice the confidence of the New Democracy Government in teachers and schools as their freedom is strengthened and can now organise teaching through the choice of books, the approval of training programmes and the establishment of training groups, while at the same time strengthening the role of managers and teachers in positions of responsibility. The bill is completed with arrangements concerning the upgrading of secondary and postgraduate church education with a view to an overall upgrade of the level and quality of the clergy. In particular, secondary church education now forms part of general secondary education under the supervision of the State where teachers and pupils of church schools will be selected on the basis of criteria. Secondary school structures are being created with a two-year curriculum, and finally the four Highest Church Academies are united in two on the basis of the candidates' demand, as well as the absorption to the job of the graduates. At the same time, in the welfare bill where there will be changes in the teachers of the church schools in Law 3432/2006 to be able to request their transfer to Metropolitans to continue working in an environment that is consistent with their spiritual directions and searches. Finally, the bill also provides for further reforms that will take effect from September. In summary, I mention the two-year pre-school education, the introduction of activities in English to all kinds of kindergartens and the introduction of skills workshops in kindergartens, primary and high schools, a hundred twenty-three new curricula in general education, the creation of a hundred twelve models and experimental schools in 2021, the establishment of six ESDP models, digital transformation at all levels. Ladies and gentlemen, this draft law upgrades the educational work provided in public schools, it upgrades, and aims at highlighting the creative initiative and releasing the potential of teachers in an environment of lasting pedagogical support and increased transparency and accountability. If all of this is combined with the eleven thousand new recruits of teachers and with the law on higher education, then overall reforms are certainly introduced that will achieve an upgrade of public school, quality education and a better education system for better futures for our children and for our homeland. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u220	Thank you, Mr Kotroya, and respect for the time. Mr. Georgios Papaliou, Arcadas, is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and Mrs. Papadimitriou is prepared.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u221	Mr President, ladies and gentlemen, this draft law once again highlights all the elements that characterize legislation on the governance of the New Democracy. The title of the bill is false and misleading. "The upgrading of school," he says, and "Strengthening of teachers". The reverse happens. The title directly contrasts with its content by distorting the terms it contains and reverses its meaning. A large part of the bill has not been put in a dialogue process, in consultation. A draft law on education is introduced into the House in the midst of the unprecedented health crisis that has been keeping schools and universities closed for months, but also in the midst of the year, obviously to keep confrontation to a minimum and not to raise objections and opposing views. The bill runs the authoritarianism and neoliberal perception of the Government of New Democracy in all areas of the public sphere. It does not hesitate to legislate and implement policies that dismantle education and dismantle its democratic function. The bill excludes more and more young people from the educational process, reproduces social and regional inequalities, with the exclusion of more and more young people in the popular classes and the Greek region from the educational process. The Greek region, the mountainous, remote and isolated areas you have abandoned, gentlemen of the government. The children in these areas, as in Arcadia, were not provided during the pandemic with the necessary equipment to take part in tele-television, the assistants came to school for months. And finally, education structures are being abolished in regions that are barren, remote, as has been the case recently with the high school of Conovazana, i.e. in areas where breaths of life and action are taken. It is also known and it is shown in this bill, ladies and gentlemen, that the government's interest is not in public education but in private interests, in strengthening private education. The minimum import base for special courses that have not even been taught in the public school, through which thousands of candidates are left outside universities, and with high ratings. This is how young people are pushed to private colleges, whose graduations you have made sure to equate with university degrees. The bill is not intended to create citizens with free and critical thought but to create subordinated citizens, workers who do not claim their rights. The bill is a continuation and upgrading of class policy and social discrimination against the people and the Greek region in the field of primary and secondary education. This policy is disastrous for the training of the vast majority of pupils. It involves categorisation of schools, separation of pupils, stagnation and degradation which has a particularly negative impact on the educational level of society as a whole. As far as the administration of education is concerned, it is no coincidence that the provisions of the bill provide for the strengthening of the role of the main monologues of the school hierarchy - regional director, quality supervisor, school manager - and the weakening of all collective expressions and representation in the educational institutions. Thus, it seeks exclusive and absolute control of the joints of the administration in the field of education and the repression of any attempted reaction to your neoliberal policy. This is why there is a strict hierarchical administrative structure and an extreme system of punishing evaluations with serious consequences for teachers, who arrive until wage deprivation and non-immunification. In particular, a key change that marks backwardness is the abolition of the successful institution of the regional educational planning centres, through which, in parallel to the self-assessment of schools, the responsibility of supporting the school community from one person to an interdisciplinary group that operates as a community of knowledge and skills. In addition to their abolition, the bill restores the school's individual teaching guidance, with emphasis on the role of inspector and not the adviser. In the bill, the head of the school unit gains overpower over the school club, from which the responsibilities are removed, even having power to impose disciplinary penalties. Ladies and gentlemen, the draft law on education, primary and secondary, is in exactly the same direction as the other draft laws of the government, such as the one on labour. Based on them the famous Pissaridis project and the inclusion in a "development" which is not about the social majority but about the few and the strong. In other words, they have a common orientation, a development plan based on the over-exploitation of precarious and cheap labour and the intensification of labour. Ladies and gentlemen, it is no coincidence that the struggles of the Greek people over time are linking the projects of freedom and democracy with education and education. This is because in our country for many years it has become aware that education, education and education have been a prerequisite for social mobility, with the removal of social and regional inequalities, for progress, for the formation of free and democratic citizens. You and with this bill are choosing the school for your few and chosen. That is why the educational community and society as a whole are reacting and reacting in a way that you are not imagining from next September. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u222	Thank you, Mr. Papaliou. And from the south to the north, to Katerini, to Anna Mani - Papadimitriou of New Democracy. And Mr. Haritou should be ready. Madam Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, it is undeniable that the globalised environment in which we live and the rapid technological and digital revolution inevitably affect the area of education and define the facilities that students must have today, to be prepared for the future they will choose. The task of any political authority is not simply to monitor and keep pace with developments, but always to be a step forward of them. Thus, the New Democracy Government is planning and implementing a better school today. His school tomorrow. A school in which all students, without discrimination, will have equal opportunities to receive valuable knowledge, useful skills and all the necessary tools, whatever way they go in an increasingly changing and competitive labour market. A school, aiming at the composition, creative thinking and overall spiritual culture of students. A school that has the decisive role of teachers and teachers themselves, who will take more initiatives and have the freedom and autonomy to do their teaching work without hindrance. We leave behind a system in which more than 80% of decisions are taken centrally by the Ministry or the Institute for Education Policy. A system which has been placed in the last place among the OECD countries in the self-determination index of schools, where international experience shows exactly the opposite, namely that, the more decentralised schools are the more qualitative the work that is being produced. This is why the first axis of the bill is to strengthen the autonomy and independence of schools. Teachers and teachers will now be free by introducing the multiple book to choose the manual they will teach, through a list of approved books. In other words, choose the book more appropriately covering the learning needs and specificities of their disciples, which they know better than anyone. And not just that. The whole of the books will be available digitally to students, who will be able to revert to the digital library at any time to enrich their cognitive object and especially to learn to compose knowledge through different sources, process it and make it their property. Flight and ability that may be more valuable than anything else. Finally, in sterile meltdown and emphasis on composition and critical thinking. Next, on the second axis of the bill, an evaluation mechanism for teachers and teachers is planned. A mechanism which has not existed to date in our country, although it is common practice in 90% of European countries. No educational system can be improved if it has not been first evaluated if its errors and weaknesses have not been detected. And that's exactly what's changing today. That's what evaluation is about. In no case is there any punishment, but also a reward, in cases where it is appropriate and indeed linked to training. They were heard by SYRIZA colleagues opposing voices. Voices outdated, slogans of no substance, anachronistic opinions, which certainly no longer have any effect on the popular base. Seven out of ten Greeks are in agreement with the evaluation of teachers, as the teachers themselves agree. And to present my personal opinion to you as a mother of two children. My children, ladies and gentlemen, have graduated from the public schools in my country of Katerina. They achieved their introduction to university, and this is mainly due to the teachers of these schools, who were educational diamonds and these teachers we want in public schools. We want them to be able to develop and become even better, because this will make public schools better. Ladies and gentlemen, next September begins the new upgraded school planned for two years with hard work by the Ministry of Education and the Government of New Democracy. A school that deserves our children with great and important changes, with two-year pre-school education, with activities in English in all kindergartens, with skills workshops with a hundred and twenty-three new curricula, with doubling of the model and experimental schools, with a school orientation, where students will have the first acquaintance, the first contact with the professions. A very important arrangement, because they are given the opportunity to identify in time what their gradients are and what they love to do in their lives. In particular, with the introduction of a thousand new organic posts for psychologists and social workers. And following on from the four and a half thousand permanent appointments to special education and training which took place last year - the first ones ever - there are eleven thousand seventeen hundred new appointments of teachers of general education. They are the first appointments made in general education after twelve years of stagnation. These are the appointments that you SYRIZA colleagues have not done for four and a half years. Thus thousands of teachers have been on duty since September and much of the educational needs will be met. These are really supportive initiatives of education. These are deeds and not words. We move on to actions, you stay in fine words. Ladies and gentlemen, we must provide our children with the supplies that will enable them to realise their dreams. The new upgraded school will give our children real prospects for professional and social development and deliver to society critically thinking citizens. This school, tomorrow's school, takes place today. That is why I am voting in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u224	Thank you, Mr Papadimitriou, and respect for the time. Mr Dimitrios Charitou is called in Stepma by SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance and by the beautiful Rhodope.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u225	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, we are at the heart of summer, and is it to be wondered why this haste? To what, really, so urgent, so serious problems in education do you want with the bill to give answers? Does that school has turned into a lasting examination center, that it doesn't inspire, but has it been deported? That high school has been completely degraded? Do you respond to the agony of parents who know that if they don't put their hand in the pocket - those who of course can - will not educate and promote their children? Does he face the big school gaps in teachers? 30% of them are substitutes, while in Europe they are only 6%. You see, this is where we start! Are you worried about the huge shortages in school halls? Problem that seemed intense in the pandemic and we'll find it again in front of us with the fourth wave? Unfortunately, none of this concerns you in the bill. All this leaves you chilly indifferent. If you were troubled, you would have let the arrangements, the steps taken by the SYRIZA government, such as the free introduction of pupils into universities, the so-called green schools or the MAGPs as an evaluation culture area, or the two-year vocational education programs at PHIs and others, be tested and evaluated. You abolished all that. Two years you are unjustified to implement a decision of the previous government appointing fifteen thousand teachers. Don't invoke those who you announced a few days ago. As the representatives of ELME in Komotini with whom I met, much of the school units from September would only work with the director and two teachers because of the retirements of previous years. Ladies and gentlemen, with the bill, neither the upgrading of the school, nor the strengthening of the teachers, you promote, as misleadingly stated in the title. With your settings you aim directly at undermining the public character of the school, going back to an authoritarian-type school that will be more disgusting for those who are still fighting in it. No matter what articulate expressions you use, you cannot hide your unforgettable pursuit of doing education even more private. So for those who have money, turn education from everyone's right to the privilege of the few with the wallet of your chosen ones. What else did Mr Mitsotakis mean when he recently said that they cannot and should not all go to universities. Of course, what are the children of poor people's bodies or farmers' bodies or of mountainous Rhodope? Instead of giving them opportunities to move forward, you come with arrangements to raise new barriers to turn education fifty years back. You did not hesitate, using pandemic as an opportunity, despite our reactions, by voting on the minimum basis for admission to universities to steal dreams and expectations of more than twenty-five thousand young people leaving them outside universities. At the same time as you allegedly appeal to the public IEK as a culprit, you have recognized the three-year degrees of private colleges as equal to those of public universities. We openly accuse you of sending the young people who are slaughtered by the universities as sure clientele in private colleges. Listen to the shouting of anxiety among young people and their families and accept the amendment we have tabled to you. In Europe, 45% of young people have a university education. You who so much invoke it, move in the opposite direction. In the same logic of regression, the arrangements in the bill are the same. Build a school that will not promote the knowledge, dialogue, collective effort, evaluation, but an authoritarian school with the master of mercy and expansion of your party state. Restore inspection that will replicate exclusions and tensions, which will discourage educational fighters from the effort they are doing today. How, gentlemen, do you believe that your real motive for the implementation of the individual evaluation of teachers is to improve education? Didn't you appoint the training directors arbitrarily and without a substantial evaluation? Stop stirring the candy that we don't want the evaluation. Whether you are ignorant of the problems in schools or consciously want to disorientate that for all the troubles in school it is the bad teacher who obviously exists, but he is not primarily the one causing the problems at school. We have no doubt that the assessment you are proposing will be punishable. Madam Minister, you may not understand that school as a mirror of society reflects all its problems. The serious problems of the school are the serious problems of society itself, and children do not become unaffected by them. While we see the obstacles and deadlocks in front of them, which the school fails to discuss, you easily incriminate the public school that it is not tailored to the labour market, that it is almost responsible for unemployment, as if there are so many jobs and the well-trained people are missing. Who are you kidding? Educational structures or the distorted productive model is what is responsible for why no new jobs are created? Ladies and gentlemen, a few words about the Democrat. Two years' hardship and abandonment for this university. Decisions with strict academic criteria for establishing and operating eight new departments put them on the shelf. From this year on, the Departments of Psychology and Nutrition have had to operate in Komotini. The first thing you did at the Twinmotikh in a tramp with the Nursing with criteria that only academically can't be characterized. And for the second you transferred its establishment from time to time and we see. Let go of the unadulterated promises. Strengthen and support the Aristotle University of Thrace, which is the main lungs of the region that contributes to the economic, social and cultural reality of the region. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Mr. President, I'm closing. I am voting against the bill with certainty that a new progressive governance will abolish these arrangements and shape a new school, open, democratic, that will give equal opportunities and opportunities to all children.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u226	Thank you very much, Mr Haritou. We're going to Heraklion and Mr. Maximos Sedetakis from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u227	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I believe that the Minister, apart from being competent and effective, is also extremely lucky. Sufficient and effective because the radical changes it attempts at in all educational levels are in line with the overwhelming majority of Greek society and are fortunate because its work is advertised by the Acoustic Opposition. It has not been a week, Minister, that in this Chamber, you have been attacked by the former Prime Minister and the former Minister of Finance, but later Mr. Friend, accusing you of slaughtering the students, that you are the worst Minister since the establishment of the Greek state, that you are dialing with colleges and other such gravitations. I must admit that other fellow ministers also enjoy the Qualified Opposition, but to you they have a particular weakness. That's why you're lucky, because with the excessively unadulterated characterizations they gave you, the world in the middle of pandemic and summer turned its attention here and perceived not only the lies and hypocrisy of the Officerial Opposition, but - most importantly - was informed about your work and it's an important project. This bill gives priority to school, to the basis of education, where it all starts. The school was neglected and left to his luck. Now that's changing. School's coming back. School opens up to students and opens up to society. There is an extrovert point of reference in the microclimate of each area, each neighborhood. Changes bring an air of freedom. Freedom is also offered by the multiple book. Teachers suggest from the books they judge their students need. They cultivate the students' critical thinking. They're taught to look for sources. They become acquainted with their cooperation and teamwork with their classmates. Freedom is offered to teachers to formulate ways of evaluating their students. The Civic Opposition wants the teachers centrally headed. Even the test time wants to point them out. Freedom in the administrations of schools offers the adoption of educational programmes and cooperation with institutions. The possibility of additional funding by donations and other means, obviously under no circumstances affect regular funding. This school opening in society makes the big difference. It's refocusing it. Imagine how society can grow around it and how many bonds can be cultivated. The dynamics that can be developed are huge. The possibilities, inexhaustible. Naturally, such an opening-up of school in society cannot be accompanied by the upgrading and strengthening of the teacher. The evaluation is the catalyst to allow the teacher to become a teacher again, to train, to develop new skills, to approach new knowledge and to evaluate for his share, commitment and diligence. The vast majority of society wants the teacher. He doesn't want him to stop evolving immediately after his assignment. Teachers do not want such a role for themselves. They want to regain their place in society and their due respect for their function. Because this assessment that came back and never applied affected their authority. That's the end of it today. The state once again trusts the teacher and gives him the role he deserves so that he too can give the education and knowledge he deserves to our children. Who doesn't want all this? Society has proven itself to want it. One would expect the left parties to want it. First in school, first in the game they used to say. Now they're yelling for the minimum import base. Now they're mocking the exquisite and deceiving excellence. Indeed, times have changed. SYRIZA managed to devaluate the doctrine that once formed the instrument for the ideological hegemony of the Left. That's why the Minister is a lucky politician. Because this gross violation of all logic by SYRIZA makes it a minister whose initiatives win society because society most of the time keeps its sense. He realizes that it's not reasonable for everyone to enter universities and not to graduate. It understands that it does not make sense to enter schools with grades below the base and schools with special courses without the basis for special courses. It understands that it is not reasonable or that each school does not have the autonomy to define the minimum import criteria itself. It does not make sense for young people not to be given the opportunity to go into vocational education to claim a better future. He realizes that the Civic Opposition covers its impotence of politics in a vulnerability. Something must be said and unfortunately they choose the excitement because reacting to the progress of our children is the highest insult. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u228	Thank you, Mr. Sedetakis. Always in time. Mrs Elisabeth Scoofa has the floor from SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u229	Ladies and gentlemen, when two years ago New Democracy won the elections few of its voters would believe that within two years this party would succeed and that government would dismantle so many social and economic conquests, advertising at the same time by the reverse mirror's method of doing so much and noble. We have before us a government regime of extreme neoliberal and anti-democratic, which has so far abolished the eighth hour and fully levelled labour rights in trying to establish a special economic zone in the country. He voted for environmentally-friendly laws by violating even NATURA areas. It has so far not been accountable to the Greek people for what amount and, above all, how it has spent without money from the 37 billion reserve pillow, which was collected by the Greek people and the SYRIZA Government. Before us, we have a government which, with a tool from the pandemic, has now targeted small and medium-sized tourism professionals with a clear aim of leaving tourism business behind, changing the composition of their equity portfolio, that is to say, or even closing them down. A government that, instead of really strengthening small and medium-sized entrepreneurship to withstand the constant lockdowns - the largest in Europe - has found an opportunity with the sub-financing or closure of the cannabis to force entrepreneurs to download rolls, loyally following the Pissaridis project. A government whose money from the Recovery Fund seeks to share it with a few and best friends. A government that made a flag and tried to sell a supposed success in the management of the pandemic by pronouncing the vaccine and only as a panacea for everything and as a passport of freedom, as the Prime Minister and top government officials said. A government that left the ESS unarmed, primary health care and IDs let thousands of our fellow citizens be lost who in other circumstances were still alive. In November alone, in Pieria, 200 fellow citizens left my life. In this difficult period of time, Mrs Keramos decided to bring to Parliament a bill that continues the destructive public education policy. Once again it brings an anti-educational, anti-educational bill within the summer, fully consistent with the dissolution of public free education, fully consistent with the support of private education. When they legislated on the minimum import base, we were shouting from the Step of the House that thousands of candidates would be left out. We have seen the results these days with the axe of thousands of candidates in the name of so-called excellence and when private colleges are ready to welcome new clienteles without an import base and with the extra gift from the Minister for the full equalisation of their graduates' professional rights with that of internationally recognised and established public HEIs. For whom and for whom do you legislate, Minister, by violating also Article 16 of the Constitution which states, among other things, that all Greeks have the right to free education at all levels of government education and that higher education is provided exclusively by institutions that are legal entities governed by public law? We are telling you this once again by tabling a relevant amendment. Remove the minimum import base. Come in line with the European objective for a rate of higher education graduates at 45% of young people aged twenty-five to thirty-four years. Remove the theme bank. We have testified for that, too. You cannot, especially in time of pandemic, raise ever more barriers to learning, the upside of young people in our country to achieve their goals and dreams. Madam Minister, and you and the government MPs with a great deal of stress and obviously because you think it is another successful communication trick, you say that we are against evaluation. We stress this again to understand it not you - it would be a desperate attempt - but to clarify it to the whole of Greek society. Neither we nor the teachers are a Priori and de facto against evaluation. We are in favour, but not in the way you want to impose it. Because you are setting up a clearly punishing assessment, and indeed from one-faced institutions, persons chosen, directly or through the deaf, directly by the Minister himself. At the same time, you are giving superpowers to a new type of director, the director of bamboo, the manager of education, learning, education is a production process of the fauna type, where the boss says they will produce a thousand shirts and the employees are new slaves of the proletariat who will execute the mandate. That's the kind of school you want. A unit of rapid production of obedient obedient obedients who will serve unregulated, anti-democratic, supreme policy of your complete hierarchical and class pyramid. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] That is why you have almost devoured the essence of the cultivating critical thinking by any of your anti-educational bills. That is why you have abolished sociology and you have Ministers to say various extremely unscientific and fragile that sociology is a left-grade lesson. Sociology, like political science lessons, freely forms thinking citizens. That is not what you want, and that is what you are avoiding like the devil of the hamburger, the free and critically thinking citizens. You wish to establish your absolute sovereignty, the absolute sovereignty of international capital, the great supranational groups over and above people's lives, over and against the environment and sustainability. You are ignorant undemocratic and deeply backwards. That's why you have to go. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u230	Thank you. We are now continuing with Mr.Ioannis Callianos from New Democracy, and then Mr. Zachariadis, Mr. Pascalides, Mr. Bartzokas and Mr. Meikopoulos will follow.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u231	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, this bill is a follow-up to the Government's reform work in education, which aims at real upgrading the education provided and creating all the necessary conditions for our education system to keep pace with its time. And he'll keep up with his time, be sure of it. For what I am not sure at all is whether certain wings within Parliament are in line with today's or even can hear the current needs and anguish of young people. I won't tell you much today. I won't tire you. I shall speak with specific bulllets on this issue, so that the next Members can move on as well. That is why the debates in this House are particularly useful to see what each party and every party actually defends and who defends progress and who maintains and upholds them in the past. I have told you in previous speeches that it is good to review and discuss at some point in the near future what exactly it means to make progress and what it means to maintain it, who exactly are progressive in this House and who exactly are the conservatives, who want to move forward and harmonise with the new rules, with Europe, with Western culture, with new technologies, with green energy, with all the new things, with the Internet, with the new structures and who want to stay back and stay in seasons too old. In particular, you, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, who have been seated in the past, to hide your misguided arguments, but also your suggestions on such a serious issue, such as education, have been served in an incredible cresent of populism. You have reached the point, and this is extremely sad, working on the students, pressing on their agony. You have reached the point of pointing out retrospectively to university institutions for those candidates who have not been able to obtain the choice they wanted, with a law and an article, that is, as you have done in the past with HISPIA. It is truly enviable that your consequences for populism, which is your only vehicle on the political path that you have deleted to date. When I read this announcement by Mr. Tsipras, I really couldn't believe you even reached this point. I wonder: Is this populist catastrophic catastrophic catastrophic you have chosen in recent years and not just? There is no doubt that this legislative initiative embraces teachers, which you do not believe. There is no doubt that it gives more autonomy to schools and promotes critical and analytical thinking to students. It is indicative that Greece has the lowest level of autonomy among all OECD countries, with more than 80% of decisions being taken centrally, while the average OECD reaches 35%. Strengthening autonomy is directly linked to improving the quality of education and with a higher performance of pupils. I think we can all understand that, there's no need for a particular index of intelligence to understand it. We trust our teachers by giving greater freedom to the organization of teaching through, for example, the introduction of free choice of books by teachers themselves, greater flexibility in the way they carry out the four-month evaluation tests, the role of the school director is strengthened so that he can take the decisions that will make the school more autonomous, a framework of increased transparency and accountability is established, because enhanced autonomy also requires a framework of controls and balances, and schools are given greater opportunities to use school facilities after the end of the timeline for organising school events or other programmes, sports organisations, etc. The evaluation of the work of teachers is also being introduced. At this point I would like to stand by, but without tiring you, as I have said before. It is regrettable that we are still discussing whether teachers should be evaluated to whom we trust our children's education. This debate is unfair for our own teachers as if they had something to fear from the evaluation, as if they were to be assessed on a score which is not, in any case, large enough, someone will go and cut their wages or fire them. Under no circumstances will that happen. We have said this a thousand times, because you said before that we will have a punishing assessment. No way. Anyone who is not assessed to the extent to which it needs to be assessed will obviously speed up a process to be made more aware of the subject matter. This debate is unfair. So, as I said before, you are the only one who really fears evaluation, ladies and gentlemen of the SYRIZA, because you want to equate everything downwards, something that you have demonstrated with your governance. You systematically oppose anything that upgrades public education. You voted against the model schools that are a ladder of social mobility for the poorest strata. You voted against the preservation of public universities which are the property of the Greek people and in which children of the people. You are now voting against - and I hope you do not, but you will do so - the upgrading of the school and the strengthening of teachers. It is a pity why, instead of having your students and students at the heart of your policy, you have turned me into a dealer of trade union interests to use a friendly expression to you. In conclusion, I would like to congratulate the Minister, Mr Keramea, and the State Secretary, and all those responsible for working on this draft law on their determination to conflict with interests and attitudes that kept education inclined yesterday. Be sure, Minister, that the vast majority of citizens support this reform effort. Finally, I should like to say to you this: I have previously heard of a punishing assessment and of an extreme neoliberal government. First of all, there is not the term 'extremely neoliberal'. You will either say 'extreme liberal' or you will say 'neo-liberal'. Nonetheless, neither are we. You said that we abolished the eighth hour, that we brought rival bills, that we're sharing money to a few, that in the pandemic we didn't do anything, that we didn't strengthen the ESS. Really solidate so much arguments that you're entering the process to believe that with constant lies and mud in the fan you'll gain something. People are watching, citizens are judged and judged, as are we. Finally, I would like to say this. In my university years I was president of the students of the Mathematical Department of the University of Patras. I pressed at regular intervals to bring new writings to the university, to build a new library room, to build a new computer room, new research rooms, to build new postgraduate programs in talks and discussions with the competent teachers, the dean, etc. That's why we students were fighting then. And you know what we received from all the left parties? We received a "no" for everything. We received 'no' for progress, we received 'no' to go ahead with the universities and get better. That is what we now see. We weren't expecting you to tell us what we're bringing, which leads us to new roads. Obviously, we were expecting you to say no and yell. It's okay. History will show if, in the end, the changes made by Mrs. Kerameos and the relevant Ministry are correct for the place and correct for students and teachers. Everybody, be well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u232	Have you heard anything about Temponer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u233	You'll see, Mr. Philly. I do not want to confront you, but I would ask you to keep the time. I think you understand. There's tolerance. You try it, too. Mr. Zachariadis, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u234	Mr. Calliano, good for you. I didn't know this aspect of your student years. I guess you wouldn't be any of the laptops who had a unique topic in their student life how to book first track at a entertainment center or how to organize a trip to summer or winter resorts. We have enough colleagues. I remember them from the student years. It's good to have someone on the coup d'états who had a pure and real interest in his school. But we are back in summer. Summer is Mrs. Kerameo's favorite period. In August 2019, he abolished university asylum. Really, what's the government doing about this? He said then that crime will be reduced, violation will be stopped. What do people say about this measure? It worked, didn't it? How are things going with the crime in the country? February 2021. There was no summer, it was winter, but it looked like summer because it was in the pandemic. Then bring the university police. How's this project really going, Mrs. Macrie? Is it working? I read the pro-government press. At least three or four times it has been announced that the university police will be abolished. And now, of course, that it is July again in a hurry, because you fear the educational community, because you fear society, because you want to legislate without dialogue and without social resistance. We have another vision for society, and that is reflected in our positions on education, health, insurance and minimum wages. Everything you legislate is a brake on social mobility, on the social elevator. Describe both social division in castes. Midwives and weaker in training. That's what the Prime Minister told us. For the economically strong, all doors can be open. You want to shrink higher education despite the opposite European trend. Read the Community's objectives again, as they were tabled yesterday and today for 50% of graduates. Read again the report by Mr Stournaras of the Bank of Greece for the graduates and leave the New Democracy statistics. In the morning, Mr. Mitsotakis came and gave us lessons from Berlingwer. Now, of course, having the Minister of Interior Voridis, the Minister of Development, Georgiadis and Parliamentary Representative Plearis, and coming to the plenary session to take lessons on Berlinguer, wants a little nerve. But let's go see what Mr. Mitsotakis said. He said to look for the truth that is hidden in your opponent’s words. Let's go see what happened yesterday with the minimum wage. What did you do with the minimum wage and what about the minimum wage? You said: "We support the increase in minimum wages to twice the growth rate of GDP, Mitsotakis June 2019." What are you doing? Increase of 0% for 2021. I don't see it sound like that. Also 2% for 2022. What did you say in the medium term when you voted here and celebrated Mr. Stavros and Mr. Georgiadis? I wish him well. He said 3.6% growth in 2021, 6.1% growth in 2022. I'm really looking for the truth that's hidden in the opponent's words, that is, you. On the basis of what you were saying, we should have 7.2% increase for 2021 and 12.2% increase for 2022, not on the basis of what SYRIZA said, but with what Mr Mitsotakis said. That is, in 2021 you had to give a month 46 euros increase and 85 euros then in 2022. That's what you promised. Do you know how much that promise goes out? It's 780 euros. So why is the EUR 800 that Tsipras says populism? You say that the companies, the same you told us about 2019, when we increased 11% and 22% the minimum wage, from 580 to 650 and from 480 to 650 by abolishing the subordinate. President Biden, who you're playing and philosophered, doubled the minimum wage. You say where else this is going. Let me tell you what is happening in Spain to get a picture of what will happen here after the elections tomorrow. The minimum wage in December 2018 was EUR 735. It increased, then, 22.3% and went to 900 and 2020 increased further to 5.5% and went to 950. This is our difference, this has always been that you are on cheap, unpaid and elastic work - despite what you say in the election - and we are with the seven hundred thousand people who are in the precision regime on the shelf, the appreciation of PPC, the fuels that are not going through, we are claiming increases. Do you know how many of them are? It's 27.7% of the workers. It's 67% of young people up to 24 years old. It's 39% of the workers 34 years old. They get the minimum wage. You're saying there's no money for the minimum wage. But there is a money tree for PPC's CEO, who gets 200,000 rewards and 100,000 euros bonuses. Do you know how much he gets? Takes 821 euros a day, the party-positioned. The CEO of EMCDDA takes 128,000 euros a year, 350 euros a day, the party located. The Deputy Director of the EEAS takes 90,000 euros a year, 246 euros a day, the party placed. And I can talk for hours, but I'll tell you about the three thousand post-call employees you've given them a 70% increase, and you know what they are, Mrs. McCrey. High school graduation. That's where your excellence is measured. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I would like to make a final statement, if I may, Mr President. This morning, the Prime Minister made a heavy political slip. He said from the Step here that we were back on compulsory vaccination. No, that's a lie. We are in favour of compulsory vaccination in the specific categories that we have told him and explained to him. But we're against the avenger. Take a look at the political debate that is taking place in Germany. Mrs. Merkel is a SYRIZA? And really let Mr. Mitsotakis decide what he wants. Do you want a deal? He's got this from the start. She doesn't want it? She doesn't want it. Why, what does he want? He wants to build enemies to justify his own failures. Because Mr Mitsotakis himself said that we would have the first immunity barrier in spring, because Mr Mitsotakis said that he would be 70% vaccinated in July and now scientists say in December. Is it SYRIZA's fault? Did SYRIZA fail? Did SYRIZA get in touch? We say it: Inoculate, it's a matter of self-protection. It's a matter of social responsibility, it's a matter of solidarity. Thank you very much and thank you for your tolerance.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u235	We are now continuing with Mr Ioannis Paschalidis from New Democracy. Here comes Mr. Bartzokas, Mr. Meikopoulou, Mr. Tzikalayas, Mrs. Agathopoulos, Mr. Kouvelas and we are finalising with Mrs. Adamou. Mr. Passalides, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, ladies and gentlemen, investment in knowledge is now one of the most powerful comparative advantages at individual and social level. Unfortunately, in recent years the educational role of the school has been devoid of, as well as of the role of the teacher in it, since the act of education has devoured in fact and serves a single objective, to ensure access to higher education. The innovative proposals of this bill aim to streamline our educational things so that our education, but also our teachers, can respond to the current needs of young people and serve the justified demands of society for a better school, with a high level of education. And, of course, we mean the school, which is aimed primarily at young people's education, that is to say, the cultivation, education, harmonious development of personality, the development of critical skills, and on the one hand, and on the other, their education, so as to be able to discover their skills, develop their skills and gain the necessary knowledge that will be useful and prerequisite. Thus, following the vote of the bills on modernising the educational system of all levels of public education, the operation of private schools and the upgrading of higher education, the time has come for the draft law on strengthening the autonomy of school units, on the grounds that the more the decision-making centre is in the school itself, the better the learning results. The decentralisation of the system will be achieved through various processes and methods, more typical of the free choice of books or "multiple book". This enables teachers to choose the book they will teach. The material will be available digitally in a digital library so that teachers can direct students to more sources. Another large part of this bill is the freedom given to teachers to use those methods they consider appropriate on a occasion for the assessment of their students, and the decentralisation of the process of approving educational research and practical training programmes will result in greater autonomy and the development of initiatives. The second pillar of this draft is the establishment of the evaluation mechanism, within the meaning of the evaluation of the work of teachers, for their professional development and for ensuring the improvement of the quality of the education provided, with a positive assessment rewarded through molecules for the development of teachers in the education pyramid. If the teacher is to be negatively evaluated, compulsory training is provided for. At this point, I would like to highlight the Minister's point of view regarding the fact that evaluation is the standard of 90% of the countries of the European Union, with our country being a sad exception, although the institution of evaluation only has good to offer an upgrade of the quality of the educational process. That is exactly what today's draft law is all about. The third key point of the bill under discussion is the strengthening of education structures for the effective teaching support of the autonomous school. This provides for specific competences to the quality supervisors of education for the monitoring of the teaching work, such as how skills workshops are progressing this year to all kindergartens, primary and high schools in the country, or how activities in English are going on at the kindergarten which are also universally imported since September. Another part that has been given particular weight in this bill is the emotional one, which has also become the subject of discussion many times, given the impact of the pandemic and the negative consequences it has had on the psychotic composition of students. So the bill under discussion provides for the introduction of a thousand hundred organic posts for psychologists and social workers in our schools in order to support both our children and educational staff. Another point I would like to highlight is the introduction of an organised system of church education aimed at upgrading the education level of the clergy and continuing to rationalise the country's academic map. Thus clerics will only be able to be paid by the public now if they have a degree from a clergy school or from an HR school and not for example from a primary or secondary education as it is currently in force. To sum up, I would like to mention that important changes are taking place in this bill with a view to the real upgrading of education so that our students can acquire skills and knowledge necessary to address the challenges and uncertainty caused by the rapid developments in the world. At the same time, I would like to express my warmest congratulations to Mrs Kerameos and her colleagues for this bill, which will bring a new boost to public education and communicate with modern currents and European and international trends, overthrowing established, anachronistic perceptions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u237	Thank you for the time, too. We continue with Mr Bartzokas Anastasio from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u238	Thank you, Mr President. Dear and honourable Minister, just a few days ago we celebrated the forty-seven-year anniversary of the restoration of democracy and on the occasion of the bill we are discussing these days this anniversary once again brings to the fore one of the points made by our national ruler Constantine Karamanlis from the founding declaration of the New Democracy. It is therefore stated that "The New Democracy will invest not only from the excess but also from the lack of the national wealth in education, training and scientific research, because it believes that intellectual and cultural values are the ones that more permanently determine the fate of the Greek nation". Education is one of our most important national issues, our top national priority. From the beginning of the establishment of the Greek state, two hundred years ago, the flame of the spiritual resurrection to liberate from the Turkish yoke lit and was maintained by the Greek enlighteners who indicated that the path of freedom is the same as the path of education. "Mania of education and virtue" was proclaimed by Adamantios Korais, focusing on education as a generator of virtue. Two hundred years later, then, the beginning of the Greek Revolution, forty-seven years of the Third Republic in our country and forty years since then, Greece has been within the European Union, the only path to determine the fate of our nation, continues and is one, that of knowledge. So today's bill follows closely this path by changing the Greek school, through a map that moves in three distinct directions: the autonomy of the school unit, the evaluation of teachers, the strengthening of education structures. So it opens up a new school, a more free school based on a modern education system, a school that incorporates the demand for quality education as set out in the Greek society as a whole, as it seems from the polls. And if you want, around this bill, in fact, there are two opposing forces, two different philosophies. Only they are completely false, colleagues of SYRIZA's Officerial Response, that what is being investigated is the New Democracy's views against those of SYRIZA. As much as you don't like it, the truth is another. The forces of enthusiasm are being reconstructed with those of progress, but progress is always more forgiving. So populism and hypocrisy are mixed with honesty and truth. The only battle finally given is between SYRIZA and society. You have created a new duplicate. And that's not between the New Democracy and SYRIZA. It's a duplex between SYRIZA and society. And you are, unfortunately, the negative pole. Why else would your abhorrence to everything progressive, such as the four and a half thousand appointments of special educational qualifications that the New Democracy has finally performed when you were supposed to have organized them, yet you left all the funds empty? How else does the ballet you have attempted excellence explain, in fact, by abolishing the standards of schools, which this year have made a record of applications and which the Government of Mr.Mitsotakis has doubled? Or how does it explain that you have voted against the budget for recruitment of permanent teachers and yet after more than ten years of appointment of almost 12 000 primary and secondary teachers will be appointed in Greek? And these appointments bear the stamp of the Minister, Mr. Kerameos. At the same time, however, you cannot make any convincing argument about the arrangements of the bill, so you do what you know to do better. You are plundering even in the backs of the bitterness of children who have not been able to enter the first schools of their preference, while once again commenting on the minimum import base sometimes, unfortunately, also attacking the Minister without any political morality. However, society not only welcomes but requires the creation for the first time of a hundred new organic posts for psychologists and social workers. It requires a fully-cleared and functional organogram of education. It requires an improved evaluation system for teachers based on feedback, timely structure and efficiency, a system will finally enable us to provide our children free and even more quality education. Teaching is freed and teaching work is determined by the initiative of those who take the lead, that is, our teachers. The school experience will no longer be an object to be identified by the Minister concerned. At the same time, the school unit manager acquires a framework that does not restrict him to being a purely administrative body, but the foundation of the school unit. And in the face of all these pioneering arrangements that welcome the Greek school in the 21st century, preparing it for the challenges of the future, what is the Dedicated Opposition response? It responds once again with zeroing, with populism, with outdated clichés and, unfortunately, with false vigilances. But your usual illness has been starting to give up its bad smell for a while. I will close my position optimisticly, just as it is worth in a bill addressed to our children, in the future of this place. I think that in 2021 and the following years they can and must also be milestones that will be reflected in our history. 2021 is anyway a year when science and health fought together with all of us, together with the citizens and slowly earning it - step by step. So in the same way, knowledge will win from now on. And as we speak of a Europe of knowledge already under the Amsterdam Treaty, that is how we will be talking about Greece of knowledge. We can do this. That's our bet. Our success is for all of us, and that is precisely why the New Democracy as always ignores the conflicts and divisions of the past and is geared to the widest possible shapes of national unity. So the national issues and the great bold steps in the new conditions require that we be brought together together, united in the effort for a truly better tomorrow. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u239	Thank you, too, for the time. We are now continuing with Mr. Micopulus from SYRIZA.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u240	Thank you very much, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, Minister, I am not going to argue or explain in detail the argument that we are discussing today in plenary a draft law on education for which all the teachers' representatives expressed serious disagreements during the debate in the Committee on Morphics in this House. And you know I will not analyse it because it makes no sense at all for the simple reason that this bill on substance - and to be honest - is part of a wider strategy. It follows on from an educational policy that you have been implementing - I would say - with a wonderful projection over the last two years. It is the violent marriage to the essence of public education with the private initiative in such terms and ways that, as long as the vital area and role of the public in education is reduced, the margins of profit for the private sector are created and widened. In any case, Minister, education, education, knowledge, specialization in the broadest sense are also the great losers of today's debate. With these considerations, I think it is obvious that the evaluation of teachers has a clear link with the return to the bank of subjects, the minimum import base and the categorisation of schools according to the performance of pupils. So the word "upgrade" that starts the title of the bill under discussion is completely misleading, because in essence the bill creates a vehicle that will lead to multi-speed schools, schools looking for sponsors, managers - managers with superpowers, consultants chasing bonuses and evaluating teachers under threat of wage sanctions. And now I come to comment, Minister, and a great contradiction. You introduce the concept of the autonomy of school units, when the return to a model of one-faced administration similar to a military-type administrative organisation is being carried out and this is exactly the distorting autonomy you connect to and the possibility of seeking sponsors. So now you can guarantee that the same sponsorship opportunities will have a school in Magnesia that is next to the work houses in Nea Ionia with a school located in the Psychic of Athens or Panorama of Thessaloniki. So now I come to the great question of the evaluation of teachers. Another concept that, in my opinion, the New Democracy has always been afflicted with the literality and even over time. So tell me, Mrs Makre, a scientific literature in the international literature which does not mention that evaluation in the educational process does not presuppose or presuppose, first of all, that there is a mutual climate of confidence. And now we're going to the examples. How can trust be made when individual organs are placed in the position of collective bodies and a large number of consultants who each decides on their own and apologizes only to the supervisor? How will a fair assessment be made when the audit is only planned downwards and there is no way of controlling the decisions of the director and advisers by the teachers? What trust are we talking about when, for example, a director will assess his existing teacher who may also have more qualifications, thus automatically turning into the Director's eyes - an evaluator to his future competitor? Think - and I want you to answer me as a woman - a new female teacher who is first appointed and placed in a school on a remote island or in a school in an acronym village in the mainland and depends on her mentor appointed by her manager for whether to be permanently or not. You're a woman, Mrs. Makre, don't you realize what can happen in practice? Aren't you afraid of exploiting phenomena? Do you not think of the consequences, the dangers with so many things that we see happening around us, of having single-faced organs that will actually decide on the lives of other people? So at this point your ideological blindness, which has made teachers of social sciences and artistic courses useless, has come to you as if the pandemic has not taught you anything at all. When children in schools have to study social phenomena, develop critical thought, when the conclusions, Mrs Makre, from the enormous health crisis and the impact she has on the society as a whole, should become the property of the pupils, you are extorting social sciences from school, thus making children easily victims to every epidemic negative. In conclusion, I would like to focus on another consequence of the incredible ideological obsession that we are experiencing today. So you want excellence? You want a private initiative in education? Well, that's great. You're doing good and you want to. Do the thing. Why don't you just urg private schools to upgrade their services? Subscribe them even if you want, it fits perfectly on your ideological profile, so they then attract people with financial comfort. But you don't do that. Go ahead and do something completely different. You are actually tearing up the flesh of public education in an attempt to create opportunities and open rams so that they can enter the same way - as individuals in public education. Nowhere in the world has ever been the case for thousands of candidates to be deprived of existing training places. And - that's great, that's funny - you think with these choices and with these practices you're upping the bar too. Just the opposite happens. When in the rest of the world, Minister, they prioritise new technologies, mathematics, science, engineering, applied political sciences, you with the choices you make, do you know what you achieve? Just keep up, just strengthen the current economy model. What's that? Services, tourism, transport, low demand technology, some good universities with research programs and all the rest in the pile together with Mrs. Kerameos' favorite colleges. As Greece only exists for four months a year. "Live your myth," you say. "The most beautiful corner of the earth." And where twenty years ago we were scanning the European mathematics awards now we don't even get to go outside. I'm sorry, Mrs. Macrie, but this model is not worth it. It is not worth the students and students of this country, students and students of this country, to the full scientific potential. I'm sorry!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u241	Mr President, I ask for the floor for a minute.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u242	You have the floor, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I hope I do not interpret my colleague correctly. Did you imply that a woman who is first appointed will be exploited by her husband colleague who will assess her? I guess I didn't understand well.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u244	Mr. President, may I answer?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u245	You have the floor, so there's no misunderstanding.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u246	There's no misunderstanding, Mrs. Macrie. I asked you directly: do you not believe that there is a risk of any such exploitation phenomena and operations? I said that right away.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u247	Because you referred to my sex, you said I was a woman and I understand, and you are a man and you understand. So I say to you that they have specific powers specifically for this reason, for objections to be raised, so that the risk you have diagnosed, which I imagine is the exception, I do not think that this is the opinion you have on teachers, does not exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u248	Good. We continue with Mr. Zesi Jekalaya from New Democracy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u249	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, in recent times, it has been confirmed once again that the area of education has finally ceased to be a privileged place, a place of dominance of the Left, as has been the case for so many decades. These days, this week thousands of teachers come, apply to be posted after the assignments made. It took twelve years to pass. In these years the Left has also ruled, and there needs to be a self-powered, pure government of New Democracy to appoint eleven thousand teachers. No one had been appointed for so many years. And it follows on from the four and a half thousand assignments made last year for special treatment. We have these days and we will be voting tomorrow on an important bill. We are proud that this bill first is consistent with our election commitments. That's exactly what we've been talking about since at least 2017. On the other hand, we are even more happy and proud because a convergence is confirmed in society. Ladies and gentlemen of the Left, and in particular of SYRIZA, you are overrun by society. The polls show that, for the minimum import base, which is so much said and brought in a previous bill, today's bill with the main controversy of evaluating these things in society wants - it is modernization, it is progress - and not just the overwhelming majority of our voters. 80% of the Change Movement, 63% of the JRC voters and 55% of the SYRIZA voters accept these reforms. I should therefore like to stress that, in my view, the most important thing that this bill brings is firstly that it builds up structures of purely educational character, quality supervisors in education. Secondly, the famous theme of evaluating the work of teachers. The evaluation we want as a method of improvement, feedback. He doesn't have any punishment. We ensure tools for quality and objectivity in evaluation. We're building an evaluation system with accountability. So accountability becomes twofold, and in the end everything is for education. We have diagnostic tests for effectiveness in sixth grade and third grade in Language and Mathematics. The selection of directors is indeed based on an evaluation based on a central criterion. We are increasing the required service. There is a common minimum teaching experience. In the interview three times the number is called by the posts and 50% of those on the list. For the first time, as far as the entire public sector is concerned, the elected representatives do not participate in the selection boards. We establish the autonomy of the school unit. We want to put a role in the school unit. The reality is that in Greece and Cyprus 80% of the decisions are made centrally when the OECD average is 35%. Don't we want decentralisation? Isn't that what democracy says? To pass decisions, power in the region, power in self-government? That's what we want to do. The Director should play a role together with the Association of teachers in the selection of the book, in the educational programs with the establishment of educational groups, in making use of schools spaces and institutions and off-the-day and weekends to bring revenues to the schools. It is important that for the first time there will be two-year-old pre-school education for all, English by the kindergarten, nursery, primary and high school skills workshops. Finally, Greece and Cyprus should stop being the only countries that have a book. From a list of selected books, there will be choice. Stop the memorization. Strengthen creative thinking. To liberate the creativity that teachers have. With regard to church education with great consideration and respect for tradition and in collaboration with the Church we make such reform that will take the education of priests, clergymen ahead. With the schools of the candidate clergy that we are introducing, there will be no clergyman who will not have post-footing expertise. In conclusion, ladies and gentlemen, we are really experiencing a world-familiar moment in terms of the area of education on which the Left has based its path, it has had strong roots especially after the Century. We all remember the little oldest, as some of us are in here, the motto 'no barriers to education'. He was dominated by the Orthodox Left, but also by the other left parties. This led us to what you wanted to do - I told the committee yesterday - the spiritual, scientific proletariat. You wanted to use the unemployed scientists, the unemployed graduates as a siege ram to change society, understand power. It happened twice. There was a change in 1981. It became the "first time left" in 2015. And I will repeat to be consistent - I always try to be consistent - over time I think that our democracy is the best city in Europe. It is pleasing to be ideologically opposed in here, but the greatest harm that happened in Greece and in 1981 and in 2015 you did so in education. Generations of half-less learners came out. That's the reality. We want upgraded education, knowledge, degrees that are equal to Europeans and worlds. A portion of high school graduates must turn to vocational training, where we need educated craftsmen, educated technicians. That's why there's the uniqueness of the second choice at the same time as the public IEK and not what you're saying, with the spice you've been doing all these days. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u250	Thank you for your time too. Mrs Agathopoulos has the floor from SYRIZA. There's Mr. Dimitris Kouvelas from New Democracy, who I don't see here, and Mrs. Adamos who I don't see again. In other words, Mrs Agathopoulos, Mr Kouvellas and Mrs Adamou have remained.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u251	Who's not here.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u252	Right now. Let Mrs. Agathopoulos finish and they may come. If they don't come, the procedure will be closed. Here, my colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u253	Thank you very much, Mr President. With reference to the previous colleague, I just want to say this. Mr. Jekalaya, it seemed you didn't even believe what you said. They wrote it down, you said it. Nonetheless, you didn't seem to believe them either.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u254	They never write them to me.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u255	Anyway. However, it appeared these days in the debate on this bill that two worlds are clearly confronted, two completely different ideologies and two completely different political plans. One is the one in which democracy, equality, transparency, dialogue and in which the education of all is taken into account as a supreme right and as an obligation of the state to create integrated citizens. The other is the project in which authoritarianism, preservatives, division, competitiveness between pupils and between teachers prevail and in which knowledge provided is intended to be sterile and committed to the labour market. The first project is what the government of SYRIZA started to implement in 2015, against creditors' cheques then, with first and immediate measures, as you well remember, the reintroduction of all teachers who had been made available by Mr.Mitsotakis as Minister of Administrative Reform and the school wardens and the re-establishment of the sectors and specialities that had been abolished by the previous government by professional and professional schools. Thereafter, much has been done in the direction of a more democratic and more quality school for all and all. What should I mention first? For example, for primary school, the entire day's kindergartens and day-to-day schoolrooms were created and extended with new teaching objects. Two-year pre-school education was established, with 4 million euros being financed for the needs of the kindergartens' school house. A network of school libraries was set up in a thousand five hundred and seventy-fifths, with their corresponding financial support of EUR 3,000 for each library. Psychologists were placed in a thousand five hundred municipality all over the country. School meals were introduced to deal with child poverty. The special treatment was reinforced, upgraded. It was founded after eight years of special education units and five hundred seventy branches of integration in primary and secondary schools. Four thousand five hundred were appointed permanent teachers and specialist teachers and assistants in special education. Reception structures for refugees and reception classes have been established, so that no refugee can remain outside the educational process. In secondary terms, we have changed arguably the exam-centric model that prevailed until then, increasing teaching time and reducing the burden of examination. We restored the reinforcement teaching in high school. The regional educational planning centres have been very successful, which in this bill you are abrogating. A new objective way of obtaining a dismissal was introduced. And, of course, we have strengthened the role of the Association of Teachers with responsibilities for the functioning of the school, which is also being abolished today. At the highest level, we increased the funding for HEIs after eight years of permanent reduction. We strengthened the universities with teaching staff, with resources. We reduced the tuition fees in postgraduate programs. We increased postgraduate and postdoctoral scholarships. And we've done a lot of other things that I don't have time to number. And, of course, all this with a thorough dialogue with the educational community and not 'decide and order'. The second project, yours, is what I mentioned at the outset, which causes the division and separation of pupils into excellent and non-competitive, competitiveness, sterile knowledge inextricably linked to the labour market and, of course, the need for dialogue with students and teachers. It is an authoritarian model that does not fit into a modern public education process, which in no case gives equal rights to the opportunity, as you say. In this bill, you bring a kind of assessment of a completely punishable nature that does not ensure objectivity or impartiality and that non-participation in it constitutes a special disciplinary offence, for which you are imposing a penalty for depriving of remuneration of at least one month and suspending progression procedures. Good for you! It is very democratic and bad, Minister, that you did not think about it earlier, when the teachers turned your back on you this winter and participated in the strike - abstention for the evaluations of school units with the overwhelming rate of 90% or when they again abstained by a overwhelming majority from the electronic votes on the service councils that you went to impose them in the midst of a pandemic. Apart from that, Mrs Kerameos, the Minister, will remain in history as the minister who destroyed, downgraded and carved higher education, but not only her, but no one of her predecessors. We also have a Prime Minister who today in his speech admits that he was not interested in studying at a Greek university, obviously because he and the family of high educational value do not think so. So how can we trust him and his Government that he is interested in improving university education rather than giving them to private institutions, which are obviously more trusted and caradoturing tens of thousands of graduates left outside this year, leaving thousands of vacancies in the schools at the same time? In addition to the examples of excellence students who have stayed outside their preference schools because of the unfair minimum import base and have been mentioned here by Mr. Friend and Mr. Tsipras, do you know what else you are doing, Minister? You lead to closure of university departments in the region and perhaps not just of the region. Specifically, a study carried out by professors of the International University for my region, the Department of Creative Design and Clothing in Kilkis, which is the only one in Greece - and because it is the only one in Greece, you should manage it with ICP members and not deceive it, because its graduates have very good absorption from the labour market, which is what you are interested in - 2020 had a hundred forty-five people. This year's system is to be introduced twenty, that is a hundred twenty - five students less. 86% reduction. You know that? Do you understand what it is you're doing? I close, Mr President, by giving another picture from my province and region, which also demonstrates your bias and your logic of 'quality for a few against equality and social justice'. Standards and Experimentals. You have taken care to extend the institution throughout the country, supposedly to have access to students from all over the country. So we inform you that some still do not even have the right to declare their desire to learn about them. And these are the kids who live in the villages. Because at the same time as setting up pilots and experiments, you did not see to it that you changed the provision that the transfer of pupils to these schools is a burden on their own pockets and not on the state budget. So in Kilkis, for the newly founded experimental schools only four applications were made between a hundred and twenty - nine. The four were students in villages. You said equal rights in the opportunity. Where is it and how are you going to do it? Do it here and now, even late. We have no expectations of you. What we can tell you, however, is that with the return of SYRIZA to the country's governance the plan for democratisation and upgrading of education will continue exactly where we left it. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u256	Thank you. We're continuing with Mr. Kouvela now. Mrs. Adamou is here? Oh, no. Here, Mr. Kouvela, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u257	Mr President, Minister, ladies and gentlemen, I hoped that the reactions, the attitude of the Officerial Response today and of the other parties, would be pleasant, but in vain. Unfortunately, we're on the same show. The government, on the one hand, wants to put order in the anarchist field of Greek education, some others do everything they can to keep nothing from changing. As if stagnation, the outdated rhetoric of other decades, the sterile reaction to what is new and reforming. Finally, you really have a political allergy to worthy, excellent, competent and indeed time-consuming. On the other hand, you continue the same trade of false hopes constantly defending the candidate students of one unit, of both units in the pan-Hellenic exams. You're lying about thirty thousand candidates outside the U.S., and in fact they're only nine thousand four hundred. Candidates, though, who, if they became students, would never finish the university. This is a great change that we are trying to make for the benefit of Greek society. You repeat with enthusiasm, from morning to night, that we send the children of the people's families to the hug of colleges. Truly, though, better advertisers than you could not have private colleges. Finally, you do everything to prove how deeply conservative you are. I have a personal view from the European education systems - standards, where the respective left parties there prove their progress in practice rather than in words. If he leaves the trips to Mykonos, which Mr Tsipras so defamated on previous occasions and travels out of the border, discusses with his European partners, I am sure he will return with many good innovative ideas of education and education. It is never too late, of course, to convince some that modern school and university are not just marches, occupations, anxiocracy and dedications, but mainly innovation, research, programmes, technology, laboratories and, of course, fruitful dialogue. The draft law under discussion is a real incision, real reform for the school environment. We do all those election announcements that the Greek people gave to Kyriakos Mitsotakis a clear order. The citizens in their vote have asked us to change the mess in our education. They asked us to transform the school into a real knowledge center and deliver our universities where they really belong, that is, to the teachers and to our students. Is today's bill reform? Yes, because he comes to build an even better school that ensures more and more quality supplies for the present and future of our students and students. A school that puts the student at the center of every initiative, every change. At the same time, of course, it gives teachers a framework for greater freedom of continued support, but also increased accountability. For us proper and effective evaluation is not punishable. On the contrary, it comes to improve the teacher's performance for the benefit of our children. First pillar of the draft law, strengthening the autonomy of the school unit. Secondly, the establishment of an evaluation mechanism. And thirdly, strengthening structures to support educational work. As far as the first is concerned, our country has one of the most centralised educational systems in the European Union and not just. The large majority of decisions relating to the day-to-day operation of the school are taken at central, Ministry and other educational institutions. Now they're passing powers at the school itself. We introduce free book choice, multiple book and all this educational material will be available in a digital library, so that teachers can direct students to more sources. It's time to get out of the sterile meltdown and our students to cultivate their critical thoughts. And you, the progressives, say 'no' to that. We give teachers the opportunity to assess their students. To be able, in other words, to decide the way and time of the examination, to introduce teamworks instead of tests and to use the methods he judges appropriate to the situation, in order to evaluate his students. We enable the school itself to make use of its facilities for events, conferences and other actions. In all of this, for the first time, we are establishing support bodies, and in particular we are introducing the teachers' mentors, the interconnectors for apprenticeships and the intra-school coordinators. So we tell our teachers, develop ideas and take initiatives for the good of our children. That is what you progressives say 'no'. In the second pillar we have established a framework for evaluating the work of teachers and mechanisms for improving and strengthening them. How can the school environment really be improved if the teacher is not evaluated? We do what we ask as parents for the people our children teach. To do their job properly. In the event of a positive assessment, teachers are to be rewarded, and if negative, compulsory training is provided for. Well, that's self-evident. And I ask you directly each other and every single one, and I would like an honest answer. The teacher who doesn't do his job properly, who doesn't respect his students, who isn't a real teacher, do we want him in our schools? Do we want him to teach our children? Yes or no, after all? I answer for myself: I want the best teachers, Mr Philly, because this means better education. You know that very well, you were in charge of the Ministry of Education, but you teachers say 'no'. We cannot, however, have an evaluation of teachers if we have not assessed our own educational system before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u258	What does the bill say?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u259	Unfortunately, the figures we have are not sufficient, and that is why we are moving forward with the introduction of the Greek PISA mechanism. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I will go on, Mr President, but I want your tolerance for a minute. As a government we have been very critical and it is true that we are inconsistent with one of our election commitments. We had talked about five thousand two hundred and fifty permanent appointments in general education, but instead we do eleven thousand seventy permanent appointments for the first time in twelve years. And if we add all four thousand five hundred who come from last year to special education, we are talking about sixteen thousand assignments. I hope that you progressives will not say 'no' again. I close with an appeal concerning the highest church academies, Minister. Indeed, the necessary upgrading of church education will be done through the merger. I would ask you, however, to look specifically at the case of the Thessaloniki Church Academy, because its wider geostrategic importance for Macedonia, for Orthodoxy, for our own country, is self-evident. The words of Bishop Estrada, who contributed to the organization of the educational system in Mexico in the 18th century, I think they give the basis on which the educational reform is found in our country. "If a child can't learn how we teach it, perhaps we should teach it in the way that she can learn." I invite you to vote in favour of this draft law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u260	Thank you, too. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we should resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-07-27-S1-commons.u261	With the agreement of the House at 23.09 p.m. the sitting is closed for tomorrow, Wednesday, July 28, 2021, at 10.00, on the subject of this House's work: legislative work, continuation of the debate and vote on the principle, articles and all of the draft law of the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs: "Strengthening the school, strengthening the educational and other provisions".
