ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, the meeting begins. [[Note: The following table of contents is not the final text because rationalisation and editorial corrections are pending]] [[DESCRIPTION OF PRACTICALS: According to Parliament's approval from 25-11-2021, the minutes of the Presidency of the Council of Thursday, December 2, 2021, with regard to the vote on all draft laws:]] 1. ‘Preparation of the Agreement between the Government of the Hellenic Republic and the Government of the Republic of Indonesia on economic cooperation’. 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. ‘Preparation of the Agreement establishing the EU-LAC International Foundation’. 3. ‘Preparation of Annex XV to the Convention on Privileges and Immunities of Specialised Entities, with regard to the World Intellectual Property Organisation’. 4. ‘Preparation of the Agreement on the participation of the Republic of Croatia in the European Economic Area’. 5. ‘For the ratification of the exchange of financial communications Agreement on diplomatic relations between the Hellenic Republic and the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalem and Malta, and the declaration contained in a financial communication by Chancellor of the sovereign Military Order of Saint John, the Jerusalemian and Maltese Governments of Rhodes, a unilateral declaration’) I would ask the Secretary-General to announce the references to this House. [[They are announced to the House by the Secretary of Parliament, Rallia Christidou, MP B3' South Athens, the following:]] A. PRESENTATION OF REFERENCES [[Enter the e-mail of the reports]] B. REQUIREMENTS OF SUPPORT IN BUILDERS’ REQUIREMENTS
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u2	Ladies and gentlemen, We are now in the middle of the debate, and we are in the middle of this debate. FURTHER QUESTIONS Before we move to the topical and urgent question report for today, let me first announce to the House the topical and urgent question report on Monday 6 December 2021. A. FURTHER REQUIREMENTS First Circle (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The Question No 213/22-11-2021 by MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Panagiotis Kouroublis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "In despair the citizens of Western Athens due to serious shortages in the primary care structures of health care". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. Under No 227/29-11-2021, a topical question by the Member of Parliament, Eotolokarnanias, of the Change Movement Mr. Dimitrios Konstantopoulos, to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on "Direct payment of aid to producers in Itolokarnania". 3. The 228/29-11-2021 topical question by MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Emmanuel Synthraki to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Event instead of solving the problems of earthquake affected in Arkalochori". 4. The Question No 219/26-11-2021 by the Deputy of the State of Greece, Mr. Vassiliourdou, to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Special liquidation of LARCO" and an assessment of its value". 5. The 231/29-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "PRO: New port of cruise in the Piera, lasting environmental pollution from broken cement box". B. PERSONS OF 2nd Cycle QUESTIONS (Articles 130(2) and (3) and 132(2) of Parliament's Rules of Procedure) 1. The 221/26-11-2021 topical question by MP Larisa of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Vassilis Kossilis to the Minister of Labour and Social Affairs, on the subject: "Stage Insurance for all - Constitutional Obligation of the State". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The Question No 218/26-11-2021 by the Deputy of State of the Change Movement Mr. Georgios Kamine to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Electronic wiring in the medieval villages of Chios". 3. The 232/29-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' West Athens, Mera25 Mr. Kritonas - Ilia Arseni to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Ikaria and Forks: one hundred fifty wind turbines are threatening the natural ecosystem with dissolution". 4. The 222/26-11-2021 topical question by MP B2' Western Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Charulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "New Ministry of Climate Crisis and Civil Protection". 5. Under No 223/26-11-2021, a topical question by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition, Alexandros (Alexis) A gift to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The inertia of the Government to take support measures leads to the collapse of the income of thousands of Corinthian raisin producers." 6. The 224/26-11-2021 topical question of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Georgios Born to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Let the contracts of a certain amount of time for workers be renewed immediately in the cleansing, feeding and preservation of the health structures of the ESS". 7. (') OJ No L 183, 7. 1972, p. 1. The 225/26-11-2021 topical question by MP Evia of the Radical Left Coalition Evangelos Apostolos to the Minister of Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Removing the producer attestation for the installation of a five-story wind park in the Municipality of Stavros Karystos Municipality". 8. Under No 229/29-11-2021, a topical question by MP Kavala of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Sultanas (Tanyas) Eleftheriadou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "New data after Commissioner Schmitt's answer to Energean Oil & Gas" 9. The 230/29-11-2021 topical question by MP Rethymnon of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Andreas Xanthos to the Minister of Health, on "Despite the declarations, no progress in the rights and health coverage of people living with HIV". 10. The 234/29-11-2021 topical question by MP I Eastern Attica of the Radical Left Coalition, Christos Spirtzis, to the Minister for Civil Protection, on "Direct action to protect public health and prevent the dispersion of COVID-19 from complying with the rules on social distance from incompetent police officers". REFERENCES - QUESTIONS (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) 1. The question, under number 364/15-10-2021, by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "Trouble risk management". 2. (') OJ No L 2. 2. 1990, p. 2. The question and application under number 452/17/19-10-2021 by MP B1' North Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Konstantinos (Kosta) Zachariadis to the Minister for Climate Crisis and Civil Protection, on the subject: "The implementation of anti-drug and anti-corruption works". 3. The question asked by MP B3' South Athens of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Nikolaos Pappas to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Colymphasis and acceptance of the contractor's positions by Mr Karamanlis', stopped the anti-military work in the Municipality of Nice, Ag. Ioannis, Moschato - Tavros". 4. The question asked by MP Florina of the Radical Left Coalition Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on "The problem regarding the government's planning for the Special and Local Urban Planning". 5. The Question No 664/25-10-2021 by Congressman of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "The rough announcement by the government of the transfer of forest services to the Ministry of the Environment and Energy. It does not go any further and create problems for forest workers.' Ladies and gentlemen, we shall immediately proceed to the topical and urgent debate on the agenda for today's topical and urgent debate, from which only two questions will be discussed. Under No 226/28-11-2021, a topical question by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Loverdos to the Minister for Development and Investment, on the subject: "Building Operations in the Chambers of the country" will not be discussed due to a blockade by the MP. The 220/26-11-2021 topical question by MP Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnakka to the Minister of Education and Religion, on the subject: "The serious problems in implementing the programme "The Postal Year - Class of apprenticeship" in the PES" will not be discussed due to a blockade by parliament. The Question No 214/22-11-2021 by MP Messinia of the Radical Left Coalition Mr Alexandros (Alexis) Gifting to the Minister for Development and Investment on the subject: "The Government is freezing the payments of the NRP" will not be discussed after consultation. The Question No 217/24-11-2021 by MP Johns of the Radical Left Coalition Mr. Meropis Jufis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Except for the education of students belonging to vulnerable groups with responsibility for the Ministry of Education and Religious Affairs" will not be discussed after consultation. We begin with the debate of the first under number 215/23-11-2021 on a topical question by Mr Ana Vageias, on the subject: 'In the mercy of the government's indifference, the earthquakes of the Larissa Prefecture'. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister, Mr Stylianos Petsas. Mrs Vaguea, you have the floor. We have time, so there will be tolerance of time and time to the Members and to the ministers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, Mr President. Thank you, Minister, for your presence here. I think it is very important that this case of Damasian earthquakes is very important, which is why I am coming back. It is nine months after the catastrophic 6.3 earthquake of the Richter scale of 3 March 2021, which affected Larisa and resulted in the loss of human life, as well as severe damage and disasters in schools, infrastructure, housing of Larissa, in the Tirnavos and Elassona municipalities. Since then many residents have continued to live in rough camps both in Damasi and Mesochori, with everything that implies for the quality of their lives, but also for their health and even in view of the winter that comes in a pandemic time. For example, in Damasi Tyrnavos at the moment they are staying in camps of about seventy families, who are both children and elderly people in and you understand this how difficult it is. Also, an important element is that, within a distance of only one and a half metres from this rough container camp, there is also a ditch, a duct in which rain and sewage are mainly falling, which unfortunately for nine months from the earthquake has not been able to cover it. There's dysosmia. In summer there are mosquitoes. And there's also a great risk that the camp children, who play there, fall into that ditch. On 17-11-2021, the Deputy Minister to the Prime Minister, responsible for state aid and rehabilitation from natural disasters, Christos Triantopoulos visited Damasi and announced the immediate grant of the advance payment of housing assistance to start the procedures for restoring damage to seismic patients for the houses destroyed. It is a decision which has already been published in the CVT since 11-32021 and called on interested parties to submit the application. The relevant platform has not yet been opened. It's over, and November, we've been in the first week of December, and unfortunately it hasn't been opened yet. This is very unpleasant, because these people must, after opening up the platform, make the applications, get the deposit and then start the process of restoring their homes, that is, then contacting a scholar, studying and then finding the contractors and making the whole process. You understand how time-consuming this is and how difficult it is. Meanwhile, the cost of building materials is growing, so that the money they will eventually take is not sufficient to restore the damage of their homes. So, is the Minister responsible asking: exactly when is the platform going to be opened and how directly after that advance payment will be made? Is it your intention to ensure either that the beneficiaries of VAT are exempted from VAT 24% or that a price adjustment is made for materials at the overall level of the aid? Second question: has the exceptional grant ever been disbursed in the Region of Thessaly? This was then announced in Mr Triantopoulos' visit to disburse a sum - it is not large, the amount is about EUR 100,000 - to restore from the periphery and finally to cover this french, the hank that I described to you before. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u4	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u5	Thank you very much, Mr President. Thank you, Mrs Vaguea for her question. Let me begin my protology by answering the second part of your question, which is absolutely also within our competences. I am starting with the data on the grant received by the municipalities of Larisa and the Region of Thessaly from the Ministry of Interior to deal with the damage caused by the earthquake of 3 March, nine months later, as you said, Mrs Vagea. To date, the Municipality of Tirnavos has been awarded a grant with the sum of 1,923,000 euros, the Municipality of Elassona with 1,970,000 euros, the Municipality of Larissanes with 5,5 million euros and the Region of Thessaly with 5,160,000 euros. In other words, significant resources, more than EUR 14.5 million, have been directed quickly towards the affected municipalities and the region to carry out the necessary damage recovery projects. I can assure you that when the affected municipalities and the region have sent to the Ministry of the Interior reasoned requests, together with, of course, the necessary supporting documents, they have been examined as a priority and have been met as quickly as possible. You are asking specifically about the open well near the seismic site in Damasi Tyrnavos, and I say that this is why the region of Thessaly was financed with the sum of EUR 160,000 for the restoration of the rainwater pipeline. On 22 November the commitment was made and the amount was disbursed accountingly, in accordance with the progress of the projects and the documents on the expenditure to be submitted to the Ministry of the Interior. In other words, the projects will first have to be executed and then the amount will be disbursed, according to the invoices. We know that the Region of Thessaly will move quickly to the necessary steps to start the restoration work. And because I have a personal view on this issue, let me return to that in my second language. With regard to the framework of state aid for the issue of VAT of the materials required for the repair and reconstruction of the damaged houses, let me submit to the Proceedings of the Ministry of Finance, as it is a matter of its responsibilities. So I'll file three relevant documents from the Treasury. [[At this point the Deputy Minister for the Interior, Mr Stylianos Petsas, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] However, in informing the House and the Member of Parliament about the inclusion of the areas affected by the earthquake of 3 March 2021 on the electronic platform arogi.gov.gr - so that building owners are entitled to receive exceptional aid for housing aid - an amendment to existing legislation is required. The relevant ministries are working on this and the amendment is expected to be tabled in the next few years by the Ministry of Finance. I would like to make it clear here that the framework for state aid through the platform established after the fires of summer was adopted by the Act of Legislative Intellect of 13 August 2021, but that was not the framework available for earthquakes in the area of Thessaly, which had taken place on 3 March 2021 and had initiated the normal procedures that were then provided for, namely the registration by three-member committees, the first construction costs and the first living needs by the Ministry of Interior according to this information and, of course, housing assistance, as was foreseen after the Ministry of Infrastructure and Transport certification of the Ministry of Infrastructure. But just because the newer platform is more brave, we work to incorporate the earthquakes of Thessaly into it. I think it is understandable by the citizens that the current government has prioritised the issues of restoring damage from natural disasters and providing financial support for the affected citizens. This is also stated in the introduction of the form of state aid. We are working to deal with natural disasters, as we cannot prevent them. These, in fact, have been growing because of the climate crisis lately. However, we are obliged to oppose a plan that will reduce their consequences, both in terms of prevention and in terms of rehabilitation. And that's what we do. I would therefore like to say with all due respect that the title of your question does not correspond to today's 'government indifference', but we do everything we can to be next to the affected citizens everywhere, throughout the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u6	Here you go, Mrs. Vaguena, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u7	Minister, you mentioned that the sums given to the Municipality of Thessaly in Larissa to help seismopaths have been allocated. These are the amounts that you had to give anyway. It's not a good deed your government has done. They're institutionalised. It is what the law provides for, that is, from EUR 6 000 to EUR 600, for construction and some other aid to earthquake workers. That's all given anyway. My question was not about that, nor did the government do anything great. She was obliged to do it. These issues have been ratified by both the SYRIZA government and there were previously. So that's data. I told you about a particular thing. I have spoken to you about the advances that need to be made, so that the demolition of the demolition houses, those who have been completely destroyed or those who need repairs can finally begin. Unfortunately, your answer to that again is deferral. If I understood it correctly - because I was unfortunately not listening to you with the mask, I was sorry, but I did not hear it all - you said that there was a need for an amendment. That's how I figured it out. That again shows a new delay. Winter's coming. Well, it looks like these people won't get into their homes in two or three years. At this rate they won't get in. Meanwhile, as we have said, material prices are increasing and who knows where they will get, when these people will now start repairing their homes or building them from the beginning. Another request from the residents of the camp that has been ignored since the beginning is to provide internet access. The lack of access poses major problems, particularly in the work of pupils. Think - where no one wishs it - if there is a need for a new lockdown, these children will not be able to attend online courses. Also, Minister, you have also referred to natural disasters, which are unfortunately more and more frequent due to climate change. The inhabitants of Damasius are mainly wine producers. The grapes for the wonderful wines or chicu Tirnavos, etc., which we all know are produced in this area. In the spring of the year, therefore, we had a great deal of damage to their crops, which further aggravated their economic situation. Then it wasn't enough, but the heater came too, which had an effect, and then a quartzing. This, of course, is not about your Ministry, but it is a new element about how difficult these people are going through and because of the destruction of their production. I left the ditch thing last. I have named it in my report, which I will also present in the Minutes, the'shock of shame', Minister. It's a disgrace, Minister. You told me about the region, etc. I wish it could get started. But this is a 50-foot ditch. Unfortunately in this ditch, in the dirt and in the mosquitoes, he has sank your ultimate state, Minister. I'm afraid so. We cannot say that we have a state that is directly and responds and openly leave a ditch of nine months in front of a camp. That's where he drowned in the mudwaters of that channel. On other points, you will allow me to say, unfortunately you are very rapid, as in direct assignments during the COVID period. In three days, we have seen permits for 'days' to open factories, make productions. In three days! And it's been nine months and that ditch hasn't been covered. I think 4.5 billion has been given direct assignments. Let these EUR 150 000 be given to this project. The only project that has been done all these months and ended in the area is primary school, and that, Minister, was not done with government money, it was donated entirely by a well-known construction company. Of course, the Prime Minister has rushed to inaugurate it. It was good that he rushed and went. With foreign collars it worked, which the people say. Do you know what was good about this visit? They finally gathered on the eve of the Prime Minister's visit to the houses that for six months, from March - September the Prime Minister went to the streets -. They were gathered on the eve of the bazaar visit. This, of course, became the case and escaped a camera and appeared in some of the plans and ruined the image of the Prime Minister. Sure, what am I telling you? From an image of Prime Minister TV you know very well! Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u8	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u9	Thank you, Mr President. I am very well aware of the image in Damasy, Mrs Baja, and let me move a little more freely to cover this issue. Firstly, with regard to the shaft, I said that I would refer to my dentistry for a simple reason: we have given EUR 14.5 million to the region and to the municipalities in the region. Do you think self-government should not have moved from day one and covered this shaft? I had said it myself since the first day we were building the settlement. How did we fix the settlement? We went there the second day after the earthquake, in order to give the directions of how it should be a settlement, to go water, sewerage, electricity, and not to fly a container in the mud, so that there is this picture that is a normal picture. Someone can live without fighting the mud. So they could have made the shaft from the very beginning. Why didn't it happen from the first moment? Because - and here we need to talk about it, so that the citizens who are watching us can hear it - everyone is waiting in cases of natural disasters for the state to come and give extra money. And, unfortunately, this attitude is too extensive. We cannot discuss a sum of EUR 160 000 at EUR 14.5 million and have not become the shaft. After our own pressure we have come to the shape of the best, to give the money to the region to do the work. And it's gonna happen. For the issue of balls, you know that it is for the first time after an earthquake comes the state and takes over the demolition costs and gives money, while these should be borne by the owners. For the first time, the Ministry of Interior comes and gives money to demolition and the reconstruction will proceed. How? Through the housing subscription. The housing aid in the case of Damasios is specifically related to the previous scheme, since on 3 March 2021 the scheme provided for and on the government of SYRIZA in relation to how it passes and records the damages and goes ahead with the advance payment and the amount of the restoration. We are working to follow the model that we set up in August 2021 for state aid in order to make the restoration faster. As far as school is concerned, I visited school immediately after the earthquake. I entered with the head of the OSCE, the mayor and the district manager, Kostas Agathos, and the head of the school. It's a miracle our kids got out of this school. They deserve many congratulations both to both the OSCE and the school manager, who showed coolness and preparedness, because an exercise had taken precedence. In fact, the school was restored by private contribution within the framework of corporate social responsibility. Should we not mobilise these private resources, in your view? Our view is that, where there is a need, and there is the private sector's willingness to contribute organisedly and transparently, so that we can have the quickest possible restoration. Also, as far as schools are concerned, it is not just this initiative taken by the government. I remember that on that day of agony about how our children are going to school, we mobilized too many other school units in the region and even the naval camp. So we have shown a speed, let me say, which had no precedent in this dealing with the situation. Now, on the wider issues you mentioned, whether it concerns the primary sector or other issues, I think that they are escaping the competence of the Ministry of Interior, but always in matters of damage recovery, I think we are showing a speed that has no precedent in relation to previous cases. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u10	Thank you, Mr President. We continue with the third with the number 216/24-11-2021 timely question of the first cycle of the Greek Parliamentary Party of the Communist Party of Greece.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Education and Religious Affairs, on the subject: "Delay in the payment of payrolls of the newly appointed teachers". The Deputy Minister of Education, Mr. Zetta Makri, will answer. Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u11	Thank you very much, Mr President. The reason for the newly appointed teachers. Then, Minister, since many years of working hostage, insecurity and wandering, of course, eleven thousand seventeen hundred newly appointed teachers from about sixty thousand alternates have finally acquired a permanent employment relationship, a term of course absolutely essential to all teachers, for all, I repeat, teachers, so that schools can function in a pedagogical way. Watch out now because this is where the issue begins. Many training addresses have not yet paid the actual wage scales of these newly-appointed, with the result that these newly appointed teachers, Mr Minister, are still paid at EUR 737 per month, that is to say, the first wage step, which corresponds to the first one without any training service, and indeed with increased reservations on the Equity Fund for Civilian officials. With this wage now, these teachers must respond to the costs of housing, travel, because many of them are also moved to several schools, of living, of course, which they are increasing, since accuracy has been reaping lately. Look, let's say it clearly and openly. It is really unacceptable that the Greek state has been delaying the timely performance of wage scales in these newly appointed teachers, as well as the substitutes, because it is also delaying them. In other words, it is late to give them the wages they are legally entitled to under the law in force. And do you know why this is unacceptable? Because this delay in remuneration relates to a work already provided by them, because such work is pre-service. And all of this, as we have said, while their wages are not enough to cover their needs well. At this time the Greek state, your government, your services, are being dangerously delayed to give them what they are entitled to, as we have said, on the basis of their pre-service. So we ask you, Minister, what you will do to identify and pay the wage scales for all. We are asking you what you will do to give all teachers now, in December this year, the Christmas gift that has been cut in previous years, and that is a first step towards the reintroduction of the thirteenth and tenth wages. What are you going to do to give increases, why should this be done, in the wages of all the teachers? What are you going to do to unblock those paytracks that SYRIZA froze in 2016 - '17, for that particular two-year period I mean? And what are you going to do to support all those teachers, newly appointed, permanent and non-subsistent, who work away from their homes, with a feeding allowance, with a housing allowance and with free transport, so as to meet the needs of their living? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u12	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u13	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, you also know very well that all the questions you ask me are not the responsibility of our Ministry. I will reply to the part that concerns us, and I will inform you that, for the immediate performance of wage scales, the responsibility and responsibility for the clearance of the salaries of teachers lies with the relevant directorates of education, and they apply the provisions of the single wage as they apply. The payroll of all newly appointed teachers begins with the first payroll - you said so - and then, after taking into account the years of service and any postgraduate, doctoral studies, they are classified in the relevant step. In particular, a payroll is provided for each two years of service, two additional payrolls for the holders of at least an annual postgraduate degree and six payrolls for the holders of a PhD, provided that the content of the qualifications in those courses is relevant to the subject of employment. Any delays, however, in a small Member, a number of addresses, in the calculation and performance of salary scales, are due to the large number of appointments. Eleven thousand seventeen hundred assignments were made this year, after too many years. In any case, of course, the newly appointed teachers will receive the full remuneration for them retrospectively. With regard to the movement of teachers working away from home, the General Secretariat of the Aegean and Island Policy of the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, in accordance with Law 4832/21 on the Validation of the Code of Legislation on integrated maritime policy in the island area and on the implementing mechanism, state supervision and general conditions for the implementation of the transport equivalent, applies the measure of the transport equivalent, the beneficiaries of which are households whose members are resident permanently on an island or in a municipality that is located on an island and which applies the measure. It should also be noted that pursuant to Article 18(2) of the same Law, temporary alternates and orthodox teachers who have undertaken work on an island to which the measure applies and for the duration of their contract are considered beneficiaries of the island cost compensation and the private cost compensation for liquid fuel in the eligible islands. Furthermore, according to a decision of the Aegean Marine and Island Policy Ministers, shipowners are allowed to grant any commercial discounts on passenger, vehicle and freight fares to all the ferry connections of the country. The percentage of the discount is freely determined by the shipowners in the context of free and fair competition. Finally, issues such as the payment of a third and fourteenth wages and the granting of increases are issues which do not fall within the competence of our Ministry, but within the overall economic policy planning. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u14	Mr. Delia, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I begin with a few comments on the answer that the Minister gave to her prototype. He stated the Ministry's lack of competence in relation to certain economic issues I've raised. Look, Minister, as far as I know the government's policy is concerned, it is not a personal responsibility of each of the ministers of this government. So the responsibility of government policy lies with the entire Ministerial Council. It is therefore an issue that concerns your Government and your Government, through you, of course, and the question we have raised. The fact that you do not answer is, of course, an answer to a fair request, such as Christmas present, so essential today to all workers, not only to newly appointed teachers. You said that the responsibility belongs to the relevant addresses for the performance of these pay scales and that the number of addresses is small. We didn't talk about the number of addresses, we talked about several teachers. It does not matter the number of addresses, as long as the number of teachers and the number of teachers is not small, but is large enough. There are many, many, of those appointed during the summer who have not yet taken the payrolls they are entitled to. This is, of course, due to the lack of staff, probably, in the directorates and departments of the Ministry, and in any case it is a matter for you to solve, because the education administrations are the services of the Ministry of Education and any problems of bureaucracy can be solved. However, we should at some point respond because in these cases the so-called state of affairs is being sought. Because, you know, this state of service doesn't show it everywhere. When it comes to organising, for example, its tax-survey mechanisms, when it is to fund the clinical chiefs, then it is finally done, it becomes fast, it becomes direct. But when it is to compensate those affected by natural disasters, when it is to grant or make pensions, when it is intended to pay teachers' salaries on the basis of their pre-service, such as the issue we are discussing, then it loses it and becomes extremely slow. What does that look like? Not the state of the 'days' - which SYRIZA does well to say - but it actually shows the class character of that state, because that state is. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I now come to the subject - and I shall end, Mr President - for the salaries of teachers, because we have to say that these salaries have been literally demolished all over the last few years by cutting benefits, with the taxation that goes on, with the cut in the third and fourth wages - there will be, I imagine, younger teachers who have not experienced, who have not taken this tenth and fifteenth wages - with the unheard of the SYRIZA Government not counting for anyone, Mr President, two years wages, and two years - and that means 30 euros for every month, for every worker - as if it were not, as if this two years were not, as if they were not working in this two-year period. Six wages, as estimated, have lost with your memoirs all these years workers and teachers, of course. Meanwhile, teachers have been charged, Minister, with all the personal costs they have incurred, in order to meet the needs of telecommunications within this pandemic. That is why we call on you, these are the reasons why the main reasons and why it is not only necessary to pay the scales. I think that you should give an immediate mandate, immediately assign these tiles and stop this unacceptable situation, but also finally see an increase in their wages so that they can live and work with dignity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u16	Madam Secretary, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u17	Thank you, Mr President. For your remarks, Mr President, that government policy is comprehensive and is distributed to all the ministries, I will tell you that political costs or political benefit concern all of us, but parliamentary practice and parliamentary ethics does not allow any Minister or State Secretary of Government to respond to matters within the competence of another ministry. You know it as well as I do, possibly better than I do. As I told you in my prototype, the issues you have raised are not my responsibility. I would agree with you that the addresses really need to be speeded up. What I told you in the protology is an explanation, it's not an excuse. It is a sensitive issue, you are well placed, but it is not a question of negligence or of indifference from our own Ministry. Now, in the matters you raise, I will simply quote what is happening, and I repeat, it is not our responsibility. You know, therefore, that according to the provisions of paragraph 1 of Article 26 of Law No.4354 of 2015, the salary ranking of employees in the pay scales referred to in Article 9 of that Law is carried out in accordance with their standard qualifications, service time in the institution that serves and service time recognised by that institution until 31-12-2015. With regard to the pre-service in accordance with the provisions of the same Article and the instructions given by the Deputy Minister of Finance, in the event that an application for pre-determined status has been submitted after 1-1-2016, the financial results shall be valid from the date of the official’s request. It is understood that the above-mentioned service, irrespective of the formal qualifications it has used to perform which it can be recognised, is the one mentioned in the same law, as has been amended and applied, on the basis of the circular. In accordance with the provisions of paragraph 2 of the same Article and of the same law, after the wage classification of the previous paragraph, the wage development of all employees shall be suspended from 1-1-2016 until 31-12-2017. It follows, therefore, that the period from 1-1-2016 to 31-12-2017 is not taken into account for wage developments, because the suspension applies to all employees, servants and neo-definitionists, regardless of their employment relationship. It is also known that holidays - Christmas, Easter - and leave, provided for by any general or special provision or clause or condition of a collective labour contract, an arbitration decision with an individual contract of employment or agreement for officials, employees of the public, legal persons of public law, legal persons of private law, including the ECHO and OTAs, as well as permanent officials of the Armed Forces and the respective Greek Police, the Fire and Port Authority, have been abolished from 1-1-2013. Therefore, the grant of these benefits to officials, officials and employees in the public sector is not possible. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u18	Good. Ladies and gentlemen, the debate on the topical and urgent questions has been closed. Do you accept here that the meeting will be resolved?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-12-03-S1-commons.u19	With the consent of the House at 10.56 p.m., the sitting on Monday, December 6, 2021, at 17.00, on the subject of Parliament's work, is closed: a topical and urgent debate.
