ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u1	Ladies and gentlemen, good evening! The meeting's on. Before entering the topical and urgent questions, I would like to read two communications. The Standing Committee on Public Administration, Public Order and Justice presents its report to the draft law of the Ministry of Justice "Reforms regarding parent and child relations and other issues of family law". The Standing Committee on Production and Trade also submits its report on the draft law of the Ministry of Development and Investment: ‘Production, export and disposal of finished cannabis medicinal products of the species Cannabis Sativa L with more than 0,2% tetrahydrocannabinol (THC).’ We enter the debate of COURT QUESTIONS The Secretary-General for Parliamentary and Legal Affairs Mr Stylianos - Ioannis Koutnajis informs us that today, on Monday 17 May 2021, the topical questions to be discussed are as follows: Question No 744/10-5-2021 will be answered by the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Staikos. The number 745/10-5-2021 and 748/10-5-2021 topical questions will be answered by the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr. Konstantinos Skreka. The number 724/10-5-2021 and the number 742/10-5-2021 topical questions will be answered by the Minister of Digital Governance, Kyriakos Pierracakis. Question No 727/10-5-2021 and Question No 4558/25-2-2021 (in accordance with Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Minister for Infrastructure and Transport, Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis. Question No 726/10-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Mr. Theodoros Doulakakis. The number 722/10-5-2021, the number 723/10-5-2021 and the number 746/10-5-2021 topical questions, as well as the number 4327/18-2-2021 and the number 4760/32021 questions (in accordance with Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr.K. Kontozamanis. Question No 750/10-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Prime Minister, Theodoros Livanios. Questions Nos 736/10-5-2021 and 740/10-5-2021 will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, Apostolos Vesiropoulos. Question No 4358/19-2-2021 (Rule 130(5) of the Rules of Procedure) will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos. Question No 741/10-5-2021 will be kept by the Deputy Minister of Civil Protection Mr Nikolaos Chardalia. 725/10-5-2021 and 747/10-5-2021 topical questions will be answered by the State Secretary for Rural Development and Food, Mr. Ioannis Economou. The current question addressed to the Minister of Finance, Mr Christos Stakoura, and the question addressed to the Minister of Culture and Sport, Mrs Styliani Mendoni, will not be answered because of lack of competence. As you can see, ladies and gentlemen, we have a long way to go. There are too many questions. I would ask you very warmly to keep track of the time. We begin with the eighth question under number 744/10-5-2021 of the second cycle of the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Panagiotis (Panou) Skourletis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Danger to the future of the Greek Petroleum Group (ELPE S.A.) - Exclusion of rights of the public and of workers in administration'. Mr. Skourletis, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u2	Thank you, Mr President, for many years. Happy birthday, Minister. In a company like ELPE, the special role and dominant position it has not only for the Greek economy, but in total for the south-eastern Europe, a development tool, a tool serving the energy security issue, have you thought about what it means to reverse a shareholders' agreement that has been in place for years at the expense of the government that you, at least in theory, represent as Minister of Finance? Why else is it that you are going to overthrow this initial shareholder agreement by reducing participation in the administration of government representatives, by overthrowing balances, giving substantial rights guaranteed to the public and along with the major management issue, which in any case gives an extra value -15-20% says the market - to the value it holds in 35.5% of the Greek State? All this because? In the name of a law recently passed, in 2020, on corporate governance, but under no circumstances do all that is present in the law translate into this change that shows that here there is a forgotten decision, a preconsent before your government elections with the specific business interests that lead the public to block its rights, which lead to the undermining of the public interest. Along with these, of course, we fly the baby, we take the workers out. What perception does it require of such a large company, such an energy group, not to represent the administration with thousands of workers, their employees and their representatives? What international practice is similar? Instead, Mr President, we are listening to plans to create a holding company outside Greece that will facilitate the participation of third parties in the business scheme. What does this have to do with national interests, energy interests, the public interest in this country? You have to answer us. Otherwise you, as a representative of course, are - not in person - the government and its policy. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u3	Thank you, too. The Minister for Finance, Mr Stagioras, has the floor for his own protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u4	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mr Colleague, I will reply to the first part you have raised in your question. The second part which is the strategic plan, obviously I have the answer here, but because it follows a relevant question from your colleague to the Minister, Mr Skrekas, will be placed. I want to be very detailed about what you said because you forget something very basic, the law of 2018 and that's where it all starts. The Board of Directors of the company "Greek Petroleum" decided to convene an extraordinary general meeting of the shareholders of the company on 20 May on the agenda to amend the articles of the company's statutes, inter alia - as written in your question - and Article 20 which regulates the appointment and election of members of the company's board of directors. The company addressing its shareholders in view of the general meeting stresses the need to amend this article for reasons of compliance with current company law - I will return - in the direction of improving the independence of the board of directors and the overall upgrading of the company's credibility and position on the Greek capital market. As you know - you have suggested - the new corporate governance forecasts are universally and compulsoryly put into effect by listed public regulated companies in Greece on 17 July, i.e. 12 months after the publication of the law. These forecasts - here is the essence of the issue - are complementary to those of Law 4548/2018 on public limited companies voted by SYRIZA governance. That's the top law. The recent Corporate Governance Act, mentioned by Law No 4706/2020, retained the existing distinction by Law 3016/2002 between executive, non-executive and independent non-executive members and strengthened the role of independent non-executive members. On the basis of the forthcoming deadline, therefore, compliance with the new corporate governance framework - rightly so - the ELPE statute needs to be adapted to provisions - whose law, however? - Law 4548/2018 on the election of members of the board of directors to enable it to be adjusted accordingly with the new framework for corporate governance. In other words, it is necessary to amend the articles of the company’s statute to bring them into line with the provisions primarily of the Law on public limited companies of 2018 and, in addition to those of the new Corporate Governance Act in 2020. In particular, to be very clear in this Chamber, the current Article 20 of the Statute governing the composition of the Management Board today provides that the Governing Council is to be composed of 13 members with a five-year term of office. Of these, you say in your question - seven are appointed by the State - two members from the shareholder of Paneuropean Oil and Industrial Holdings, two from the employees' representatives - I will return to my second language for the workers - and two from them are representatives of minority shareholders appointed by the special general meeting of the other members of the minority. The proposed amendment to Article 20 by the ELPE Board of Directors deleted the provisions on direct appointment by shareholders of the company and the appointment by employees following the election of members of the board of directors. In accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation, this revenue is to be considered as assigned revenue in accordance with Article 21(3) of the Financial Regulation. That's the law we're talking about. The independent non-executive members of the Governing Council shall not be less than one third of the total number of its members in accordance with Law 4706 of 2020 on Corporate Governance. So - and I close my prototype - the ELPE board, as it says, has chosen to ensure that the provisions of Law 4548/2018 are respected faithfully, has chosen to put the whole of its members elected to the general assembly for approval. In this way and through a number of other amendments, according to the company, incompatibilities of the statutes that prevent the attraction of new investments are removed. Therefore, the basic law on which the changes are based is the 2018 law of the Government of SYRIZA. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u5	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Skourletis has the floor now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u6	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I expected you to answer me as the Minister of Finance. Give me the government's political will. You obviously don't want to hide it. You came here and spoke more as a professor of corporate law. That's not your role. Because that too was your role, you probably don't exercise him well. In no case do the law of 2018 but even 2020 allow such an interpretation, i.e. the reduction of members of the board of directors and the overthrowing of the core shareholders' agreement. The main shareholders' agreement was the political will then of the state in the context of the merger of PETROLA with the Hellenic Petroleum. Let go. And that is why we could talk very much about whose benefit this peculiar privatization at the time was ultimately a peculiar one. This, of course, is a very old tradition of yours. Always work for individuals. But the people did not choose you for it. In your program you do not say that you will assign the management to the individuals. You don't say it anywhere. You're talking about privatization. But even this dangerous and antisocial plan to privatise the ELPEs that still exists on the table is undermining it. Because you are giving the management beforehand. Therefore, you have a loss by over 100 million of the value of the shares corresponding to the Greek State. Is this an issue of infidelity against the interests of the Greek State? Answer me. Is it a matter of infidelity? These are resolved through political will. So, what's your plan? The service of the individual, who holds around 45% of the PANEUROPEAN. Maybe Mr. Screkas can tell us exactly how far he's gone right now. It's the particular Latsi interest group. He's the one you're serving. This is your priority. In no case do any other things you said to us, which was a legal alchemy, justify what you are doing at the moment at the expense of the Greek State and its interests. So is there a national energy policy in this country? Are there wider geostrategic interests? Why are you undermining them through this act you're doing right now? Who gives you that order. The vote of the Greek people in the previous elections, in July 2019, said that you should treat public property in this way? Because it evades any public reports, plans and election positions that you have been going to do at the moment. It is blatantly against the interests of the Greek public. Therefore, Minister, this procedure must be stopped. The current statute was fully in line with the law of 2018 and is mentioned in the media, so there is no reason. But even if, according to any interpretation, there was a need to change certain things could be done through an increase in the members of the board of directors so that the relationships within the administration would not be overthrown and the conditions for participation of independent members in the administration would also be fulfilled. Finally, I'm finishing up. Make the comparison that Greek society knows, the whole market, between the period of private management until 2014 and the public management from 2015 to 2019. Among those whom our government has appointed as administration and those who are now or were before 2015. The difference is losses. Unprecedented gain in the history of the group because there were people who honoured their role and did not work for the other investor and shareholder whose credibility is, as you will know very well from your point of view, controlled for his overall business status and activity. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u7	Thank you, too. The Minister now has the floor, Mr Stakoras, for his second-guess.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u8	Mr Colleague, you will allow me not to absolve but to remain specific. And I will remain specific to understand exactly the substance of the matter because in your question there was no one in 2018. Slowly put in 2018. You are now saying that there was full harmonisation but you say that even if it was not there, I will prove to you what existed and what was not there. As far as the issue of disastrousness, as you have said, demilitarization is concerned, I will remind you of what you have signed. On 15 February 2019 the ADP of the Greek Government you signed is the same...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u9	Samara's? That's what you're telling us. We're out of the memos now.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u10	I'm sorry, I didn't interrupt you. On February 15, 2019, as far as I know, it was you. And Mr. Skourlet, who signs here underneath, is you. The ADP of 2019 says the GOI launched a joint sale of at least 50.1% with a strategic shareholder in ELPE, PANEUROPEAN. What you say is catastrophic, you signed it in 2019. Your ADP with your signature.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u11	In 2019 no, Minister, the previous one can.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u12	Don't interrupt, Mr. Skourlet. You heard before.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u13	On 15 February 2019, FEC. Ladies and gentlemen, as I have said before, and I will continue to be specific - I am not saying - the amendments proposed by the company in the statutes are primarily in line with the law on public limited liability companies, Mr v. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Let's see how there was full harmonisation that you're talking about. I'll be even more specific. Articles 78 and 79 provide that the members of the board of directors are elected either by the general meeting or by a designated shareholder or shareholder, subject to the law to define something different. You haven't changed the law. He doesn't define anything different. By abolishing special arrangements for the appointment of members of the board of directors of ELPEs, which you have not changed, there is no longer a special provision providing for some kind of differentiation from the general provisions governing public limited companies. If you wanted anything different, you'd have legislated differently. The ELPEs are in general provisions. In addition, the law on public limited liability companies - you voted - establishes the possibility of the statute providing that a shareholder has the right to appoint directly members of the board of directors, but not by a number exceeding two fifths of the intended total number. This is a classic corporate governance issue. If, therefore, the selection of the direct appointment of members and of the new statute was chosen, then the Greek State and the other minority shareholder together could not appoint more than four of the thirteen members of the board of directors. Therefore, the planned number of nominated members directly from the public - seven out of thirteen, that is what you ask me, regardless of what you say in your speech - cannot comply with your law, with Mr v. This Regulation shall enter into force on the twentieth day following that of its publication in the Official Journal of the European Union. Otherwise there was an agreement, as you say, with the legislation. In addition, according to the law of the present government on corporate governance, independent non-executive members of the board of directors may not be less than one third of the total number of members. Therefore, this provision of the Statute for the election of the Board of Directors is suffering, as the number of appointed consultants goes far beyond the maximum allowed number, which in turn does not permit the appointment of independent members. Eleven of the total thirteen members today do not fulfil the criteria for independence, classical core principles of corporate law and corporate governance. This raises your question. Especially now, for the participation of workers in the Board of Directors, you did not say in your dentistry. You have recalled that the provision of founding law 2593/1998 provided for a direct participation not by election by the general meeting. Repealed. When was it abolished? By Law 4092/2012. Since then, and here is the substance, there is no other special provision of law that provides for a direct promotion of workers at the Board of Directors of ELPEs, and this is also not provided for in Law 4548/2018. You didn't foresee it either. However, the management of the company is required to examine and exhaust all possible means of involving workers in a legally active manner. And you said something about the role of the public and the Greek Government. Let me remind you of the basics. Under the 2011 decision of the Interministerial Committee on Restructuring and Privatisation, as replaced by a 2012 decision of the same Committee, and never changed, transferred and transferred to the GOI in full ownership, along with the relevant voting rights, of the company's securities, which correspond to 35.477% of its share capital, with the aim of making better use of public private property and promoting the implementation of privatizations in the country. The HIPS as shareholder of ELPE, regardless of its nature as a legal entity governed by private law, operates manifestly for the public interest and must act following an assessment of the data as to the necessity and effectiveness of the company's modified management recommendations for the general shareholders' meeting. To sum up, the emergence of a modern corporate culture, on the basis of the laws passed on to corporate law in 2018 - and as I have shown you in my denture, there was still no full harmonisation - and 2020 on corporate governance, is a prerequisite for the creation of the appropriate investment climate. Modernising the institutional framework and adapting all companies in a timely manner to new data that imposes good use of best practice of governance and transparency, as voted, is the key to the development of the Greek economy. Otherwise, your signatures will accompany you. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u14	Thank you. The 10th will be discussed, the Question No 745/10-5-20201 of the second SYRIZA MEP - Progressive Alliance Mr.Socrates Famelou to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Directly necessary to defend the interests of the State in Greek Petroleum (ELPE)". The question will be answered as the Minister for the Environment and Energy, Mr Skrekas, said before. Mr. Femmelle, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u15	Thank you, Mr President. I wish you, the main ministers and colleagues a good week. I assume, Minister, that neither you nor the previous Minister have come here as technical advisers of the state - I say 'technical' to your profession, which we share - but you have come here as political persons. As political persons, first of all, I would like you to tell us whether or not public participation in Greek mineral oils is important and not, and if you agree, that Greek mineral oils play a crucial role in the country's geopolitical strategy, as such, in energy reserves, in energy security, since obviously Greek minerals, Mr Stakoura, are also imports of hydrocarbons, the function of refineries, consumer prices, energy costs, industrial prices, and the country's competitiveness. I would like Mr Screka's opinion if we are talking about the same group, or are we talking about accountants as accountants for a public company in your constituency or my own constituency or the whole country. From this point of view, I am particularly impressed by the failure of the Ministries to react to the Board of Directors' decision, at an extraordinary meeting on Thursday, to dismiss the rights of the State, to accept abrogation of the shareholders' agreement, the 2003 Shareholder Agreement. This is the decision to be ratified next Thursday. In this respect, therefore, I would like to see, Mr Skreka, and your opinion why you did not even say anything about what Mr Stagioras said when you saw the ELPE Board. Why didn't you say anything about the government leaving the ELPE administration? Why did you get a press release on their prospects, but did you say nothing about workers leaving the ELPE Board? We will not get tired of telling you all tons. The recommendation of the Board of Directors at the moment is politically and legally unacceptable, Mr Stakoura. This is because it is incomprehensible first of all for the representatives of the public, who are the majority on the Board of Directors, to recommend that the State stop having a majority, so dismissing its rights and property. In other words, you are doing a Easter gift to the Latsis group, which I assume you had agreed in the election, because it is not the only gift you make to groups that are friends of the New Democracy authority system. But it is clear that there is an issue of infidelity. But don't hide behind legal explanations. We are not talking about one of the hundreds of thousands of businesses in our country. We are talking about the only undertaking managing geopolitical interests and hydrocarbons imports and the operation of refineries and affecting mining rights at the same time. And to tell you one more thing Mr. Stavros probably ignored it. Harmonisation with Law 4548 was also decided by the Legal Council of ELPEs and by Decision of the General Assembly of 2019 and the Statute of Greek Petroleum was harmonised with Law 4548. It's never been a question of Article 20. So don't lie to the Greek Parliament. There was neither time-limit nor any further margin, which did not satisfy Greek mineral oils. Do you want to tell us that the New Democracy rule was wrong, illegal amendment of the statutes and a general convention in 2019, the Greek Petroleum? I don't think so. There's no legal cover. Politics, then, we're talking. There is a question of political responsibility from the Ministry of Energy, the Ministry of Finance and the Government of Kyriakos Mitsotakis. Will you consent to an act that removes the rights and property of the Greek State? In fact, you have so far done quantifying the losses of the Greek State, since you are not only losing rights, which you will tell us with Holding, but you are also losing the right to goodwill which actually amounts to more than EUR 100 million, without even having so far done an evaluation of the costs and value that the Greek State is losing. So because we want to discuss this, we are very simply asking, Mr Skreka if you will take the initiative so that the matter will not be brought into the General Assembly on Thursday. Will you take the initiative to have the public majority in this most critical group of Greek oil? Will you ensure the strategic development plan of this group that will be for the interests of our country and not for the interests of a private person? That's all we're asking. Let go of legal terminology and excuses. You are neither accountants nor technical consultants nor legal advisers. You're Ministers. We need to know whether we, the workers and the Greek society will have a majority of the public in the group. Would you do something about that? That's what we're asking. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u16	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u17	Thank you. First of all, Mr Colleague, we will, of course, do what we have to do to protect the public interest, but also to help the ELPEs to transform themselves. Greek mineral oils are a very important organisation, which really contributes to national development and is a key pillar of our national economy. Of course we will do everything we can to ensure its long-term prosperity, its sustainable development, because as you have said - and I think we all agree - it is indeed very important and crucial for the further development of the economy, particularly in the post-Korean era. Of course you know that the growth and prosperity of a company, an organization, is not done automatically in itself. And we found this in a large energy pillar, PPC, with the passions it took over the four years, five years 2014-2019. It has reached the limits of bankruptcy, because precisely corporate governance - but also the way you as government have dealt with this very important pillar - has brought these results, which we have all seen at the time. I will give you an example - and I will start by answering what you have said - that immediately after the announcements made by the Greek oil group administration and after the announcement and interview he gave to authors and journalists about the company transformation, which he promotes, its stock valuation has increased very much in the Greek Stock Exchange. And it is an indicator, I am not saying that it is everything, but it shows that from the low fifty-two-week, four-week,07 euro share that has had in the past fifty-two weeks, of course this had come from the crisis because of the pandemic and which it had brought to the company's sales, but also as it seems after the latest developments in the energy sector in the oil market, mineral fuels, which is the main product mix of the company from the EUR 4,07 which had retreated to a low of fifty-two weeks, has now reached around 6,3 euros. So, we have a very significant increase of 40% to 50% in the company's stock valuation. This demonstrates how markets perceive what is being promoted, which is of course legal and must be done. And I ask you, my colleague, when you voted on the laws, when you voted on Article 78 of Law 4548/18, which states that the board of directors is elected by the general meeting if you do not define anything else in the law and you have no definition of the law, we are talking about the law on public limited companies that you and your government have voted on, when it says that the statute can provide that a shareholder or shareholders are entitled to appoint directly members of the board of directors, but not beyond 2/5 of the planned total number, you know, Mr. Colleague, how many members of the board of directors appointed before the proposed change in the statutes arises? Much more than 2/5 of course. I ask when you voted on these when you voted with us on Article 5 of Law 4706/20 on how to elect the non-executive members, the independent members, when you voted on Article 24 of Law 4706 which states what is envisaged for the audit, for the auditors, for the responsibilities of the Securities Committee, which states in particular that in the event of an infringement of the provisions of Articles 1 to 23 that have been described before, the Securities Committee imposes various fines and sanctions - I repeat when you voted on all of them - then you did not know that the ELPEs are a listed limited company to show a resistance, a differentiation, an amendment, something? But you are coming here today and two of the same party - I do not know if it means something to your party's internal balance - and you are asking two topical questions on the same subject when you a few months ago and two years ago you have just voted on what today's administration is obliged to implement in order to adapt the statute in accordance with the law. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u18	Thank you, too. Mr. Femelle, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u19	Mr President, I will take your part for a moment to explain to the Minister that the two questions are due to the fact that there are two ministers with responsibility. And I think the Secretary of Parliament who is here will help you understand, to explain that when he comes to ownership, Mr Stagioras comes to be placed, and when he comes to strategy and sectoral policy you come to answer. If you do not know these basic rules of the Parliamentary rule, I am sorry, but I cannot help any more. But you are right when you want to refer to the value of ELPEs. And I would like to mention Mr Screka, because in the period “15-19 the Greek Petroleum had increased investments, increased profitability, increased employment, and this was the SYRIZA footprint on ELPE’s operation. Are you not concerned, however, about the damage the ELPEs have written and about the serious issues and the investments and employment that have arisen over the last two years? Aren't you going to deal with this? Or if you want to talk about econometrics, we can talk about them too. But, Mr Skreka, even in your own sense, the limited, short-sighted table, even the increase in the value of ELPE's stock market is a reason why you should not present it to the Latsis group. But do you have to answer us at last, are you here two top Ministers of the Mitsotakis Government, will you have the public majority in the group? What's your point of view? Let the games throw the ball at the platform or SYRIZA. We're bored. You can't opposition to the opposition, you're government two years. Don't you have the right to tell us if you want the State to have a majority in the ELPEs? Will the Mitsotakis Government therefore support having the public majority on the board of directors? If so, why did you allow the board of directors to proceed with the recommendation? Will you stop it until Thursday? If not, then you must apologise why you support the interests of the private group and tell us what in return and what commitments you have. You can tell us here, however, one of the two applies. Do you want or don't want to have the public majority? If it is not a legal matter that I proved to you that it is not because in the general convention of 19 there has been no question of harmonisation with Law 4548, I will tell you something else, Mr Screka. When you are going to serve the interests of the group in Greek you can legislate, but in ELPEs can't you? When you are going to serve the interests of "Greek Gold" to make a colony in northern Halkidiki you can legislate photographically, here you can't for Greek Petroleum? Aren't Greek Petroleum worthy of your own legislative initiative for exception? And if you want to be so lawful, since you referred to the limit of 2/5, why didn't you set 2/5 on the board of directors and grant all to the general assembly? And why don’t you make legislation now so that the State can suggest to the general assembly and workers and adopt the general convention that is lawful and the law of corporate governance of 1920? So we tell you, Mr Stavoura and Mr Skreka, SYRIZA will table an amendment that ensures public participation and the majority of workers and the board of directors. Will you vote for it? Will the Mitsotakis Government vote on the SYRIZA amendment, which we are going to try to come here this week, so that it does not become what is to be done that can be reversed in the general assembly and that we have a majority of the government for the workers? The rest is, let me tell you, excuses why the shareholder did not raise a matter in “18 and ”19, he did not raise a matter, with your own government he raises a matter regarding the law of corporate governance in the law of “20. And at the general assembly of 19 we made it clear, Mr President, nothing changed. So if our private partner in the Greek Petroleum found your own convenient government to put issues that were in place from the past, then we have a problem as a country, Mr Ministers, for your own adequacy and political size, because I do not think you have any other kind of interests. You're probably weak to defend the interests of the Greek State. You have no other dependencies and interests, and I want to believe that. The solution, however, is simple to come with us, with the rest of the parties that saw the workers, with the workers who strike and worry for the interests of the country and to legally cover the majority of the State on the basis of both laws of “20 and ”18 and the presence of the workers on the board of directors. You must stop the session on Thursday. You have to secure the interests of the State because the infidelity charge is not only for members of the board of directors and representatives of the GOI. As far as Immunity is concerned, Mr Stakoura, we are also dealing with you as a political complaint and we are making it public. You cannot hide behind supposed responsibilities of old laws that have not been implemented, but in your own governance there are loopholes for every best friend to make Easter gifts all the Greek oil group and management, which the Greek State had guaranteed since 2003. They are never-known public representatives to suggest that they lose their property and lose their property in geostrategic matters, oil imports, refineries, consumer prices, mining. Mr. Skreka, we are following your statements, we are following your statements that open through the back door and another procedure for the fragmentation of the assets of the Hellenic Petroleum, for the pretext of the company 'Holdings', so that you can find a chance to privatize the small piece of Greek Petroleum, because even in the agreement, which...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u20	Finish, Mr. Felle, because we have twenty-time questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u21	I shall conclude, Mr President, you are right. We therefore want a commitment that any transformation and transformation plan will ensure the interests of the Greek society, the Greek economy and the workers, because so far this week you have been walking on a tense rope, and we have to warn you. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u22	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u23	Obviously, Mr President, we have a completely different view of how we can achieve growth and job creation in this place and it appeared from what you said again. You do not want the Greek Gold, you want this activity to be closed down there, as you managed to lose six hundred people in the summer of 2018, with the decisions of the administration that you made then and indeed - we talked about them, not to talk about - then the state was accused. In the end, these decisions of the administration were taken by the investor, then, at the risk of bringing a penalty and a cost to the Greek State, which we have come, of course, and we have prevented this once and for all. You didn't want to become the Greek, you wanted to make it a park. You forgot all this, not archaeological site, not forests, not you wanted the other one, but we believe that this huge investment that will change Attica will change the whole country, will change the way foreign investors and domestic investors perceive Greece as an investment destination. Of course, and with ELPEs you are not all, you would like nothing to change, not to transform the ELPEs, to stay as it is, to sell oil and petrol, to refinance fossil fuels. You do not see what is going on in the world, you do not see the objectives set by the European Commission for reducing carbon dioxide emissions, you do not see the effort made by everyone to reduce carbon dioxide emissions in transport, in cars, that electric cars have started and take a market share. You know very well that in Sweden and Norway over 50% of cars are electric cars. What will Greek Petroleum become when after ten, twenty, thirty years, finally, will petrol not be so necessary to move cars, will it not be so necessary for the oil to heat the houses? What happens then if nothing happens now? So you're the people of the next minute. Let and of course, you are not the ones who will be called to save something from the disaster that you have achieved. That's what's been done with PPC. Fortunately PPC escaped, the government changed, PPC's administration changed. There was an inspiring command. Remember how much PPC's share was at that time, you remember what damage PPC wrote and now see how much the company's valuation is. And I'm asking. When was the public interest better served when PPC cost EUR 200, 300 million, or now that PPC costs billions of euros? When was it on the brink of bankruptcy and did it write damages or now that it wrote 200 million EBITDA operating profit margins? That is what we need to talk about, and these must be exchanged between us so that we can finally understand what is right and what is not right. You're staying in a sterile, I'd say, criticism. What do you think you'll achieve this way? Will you attract more voters? However, to create jobs and growth, it is impossible. For today’s activity, as I said before, Greek oil, in fact, has been caused to deal with for the coming years. Why? Because the energy sector has changed and is changing and even faster after the pandemic which, unfortunately, has hit the whole planet. The ELPE business strategy - let me say two things - focuses on improving the environmental footprint. You know that we have - and after the latest developments - an obligation as a state to reduce carbon dioxide emissions by 2030 for more than 55% at the moment, including, of course, the soil that is 53% - 55%, anyway, to reduce emissions - in relation to 1995. When will we achieve this if we do not reduce transport emissions in the way we heat our homes? All of this has an impact on Greek mineral oils, so they need to change their product mix, change their energy mix, and the business strategy is adapting and more than EUR 3.5 billion is invested, with 50% of these investments going towards green energy and reducing the environmental footprint. You said about the good results of Greek oil in 2015-2019. Let me remind you that investments in the refinery have taken place in previous years. And I would remind you that the refineries around the world have had the best historical refining margins ever. At the moment, only a man who does not live on the planet earth and lives on another planet can understand and say why a company that sells oil and fuel shows a fall in turnover and challenges in front of it to face a pandemic that threw people away. They don't move people on cars, we've had a reduction in air travel. So I do not understand how difficult it is for someone to understand that this will probably have an impact on a company that sells fuel and even minerals. The Group's structure was designed in the 1990s in a different environment. Do we have to let that go like this? We're in 2020. Thirty years have passed since the present business model of Greek oil was designed. We're gonna leave it, right? We're gonna let it fade, fade? We're gonna let it slip until he faces the wall in front of him? Oh, no. Now we'll come and do it. We won't do what you guys did, for leaving everything for the next. We will now make the difficult decisions. Why? Because we really want jobs not to be reduced and it will not be reduced. Because we do want to have high-paid jobs and you will see that it will continue. Ultimately, here we are. We have months and years of governance ahead. You will finally see how much the results of this transformation will be and how they will be captured. And the final governance we talked about and talked about again, not to talk about it again. I cannot understand why you have now brought an amendment and voted? Don't you know what you're voting for? Don't you read the laws? You have not seen the articles of the 2020 Act or of the n. 4548/2018 or n. 4706/2020? Didn't you realize that this thing would eventually have an impact on the Greek Petroleum? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u24	Thank you, too. Before we go to the next question, I will also remind those who entered the Chamber that the topical questions are all twenty. I have been tolerant, I apologise for both the questioners and the ministers. From now on, I would ask that the time should be respected from the outset to every one I give the floor. We move to the fourteenth, with number 748/10-5-2021 a timely question from the second cycle of the Parliamentary Florins of SYRIZA / Progressive Alliance Mr.Theophistis (Petis) Perkas to the Minister for the Environment and Energy, on the subject: "Restoration of mining land in the region of Western Macedonia and Megalopolis with a view to extinction". Mrs. Perka has the floor for her prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u25	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, after all that I have heard, I cannot but comment on the fact that in the West Macedonia region the unemployed have exceeded two and a half thousand. What you said about the last moment, I have nothing to say and it will be seen from the question - how am I going to expose it - because we have been close to two years since liberation has been proclaimed and we still have nothing, some paper designs and no movement! I'm going down now because these are very critical things. I also convey the concern of the people, but, above all, the lack of participation in any planning of the Greek society and in the preparation of projects and in the system of governance, in the planning of spatial planning which, in any case, does not go any further at a time when the European Commission and the regulation in the Fair Transition Fund themselves place the greatest emphasis on the involvement of local society. You ignore the world and, as I have told you, they are now over two and a half thousand unemployed. But the lack of this participation is also confirmed as far as the territories are concerned. As if the formation of the territories with new uses, their restoration and return is not a matter for the inhabitants, but it is a matter between the Ministry and PPC. There is nowhere even the Regional Director who asked you to have information, the municipalities to participate in the programme contract or be informed. On the basis of this, the plan of the Recovery Fund, as you have presented to us, seems to be made available by the Recovery and Resilience Fund, just EUR 242 million, to restore 60 thousand hectares of lignite areas in the region of Western Macedonia. You completely forgot about Megalopolis. (OR) This is a very small percentage of the total area, when the total Western Macedonia - Megalopolis exceeds two hundred and fifty thousand acres. And there are inaccuracies in terms of land recovery resources. In the recently presented Basic Principles Disclosure Memorandum, Concept Paper, the Fair Transition Program, says that EUR 300 million will be made available from the Recovery Fund exclusively for the restoration of land in the extractive fields of Western Macedonia and the Municipality of Megalopolis. In a recent reply, the Coordinator of the Committee, Mr Mousouroulis, answered my own parliamentary question that if resources for rehabilitation are not sufficient, we will also use resources from the Fair Transition Fund. However, the resources of the Fair Transfer Fund are only very limited, just 755 million. You will allow me to say - because it is another government account of what we have achieved with the forward defoliation - that we are one in the ranking in terms of resources when Romania and Bulgaria, which are not even committed to defoliation, are given respectively 1.2 billion and 2 billion net from the Fair Transit Fund, when we are taking 755 million, not by the leverage of the ERDF and the European Social Fund. So, after that, I ask: First, on the basis of what study of the restoration of mining land the cost of restoring sixty thousand acres was estimated at EUR 242 million? Why mention only sixty thousand acres to be restored in the region of Western Macedonia, what about the rest of the area and what about the Megalopolis? Does this also include the development of land for specific uses and what are these? Will the Government increase the resources of the Recovery and Resilience Fund in order to meet the overall recovery needs? Secondly, is the transfer of PPC’s lignite land obligations to the state with the polluter pays principle? How much is the value of the land to be transferred from PPC to the State by means of the special purpose vehicle?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u26	Mrs. Perka, finish it up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u27	I shall conclude, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u28	Yes, but you spoke at first about other issues, and now you can't handle the questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u29	How much will their rehabilitation cost? How much does it cost to restore the land to remain in PPC? I conclude by saying that the PPC - which you took a long time ago, Minister - has completely lost its social role and character. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u30	We've already been to four minutes and twenty seconds. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u31	Thank you, Mr President. Madam President, it is of course an opportunity to discuss what is going to happen and what is going to happen in Western Macedonia, Megalopolis and even in the islands, in all those areas using fossil fuels, lignite, for electricity production. It is true that all the local economy and local society lived from this activity, which, however, we knew had an end. And we did not know this in the summer of 2019 that we took over the rule of this place, Comrade. We knew that a long time ago. Unless you didn't understand anything. Unless 2014, 2015, 2016, 2017, 2018, all these years that you had the responsibility of governing this place, you did not realize that something is happening, that rather lignite electricity can and may not be so advantageous to PPC. I'm not saying that you certainly knew, although you should know. But haven't you even had any ideas that it's probably not going to be that beneficial to PPC? Today, my colleague, the prices of pollutants on the Poultry Stock Exchange have reached about EUR 40 per tonne. Each tonne of carbon dioxide emitted into the atmosphere costs the emitter about 35 to 40 euros each time it is transmitted. When you produce lignite electricity for every large electricity you produce from lignite they are emitted into the atmosphere from PPC's lignite plants about 1.2 to 1.4 tons, which means that for every major electricity produced by PPC today, a colleague, costs more than the production costs of 50 euros.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u32	I know that, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u33	You know it today, but it seems you didn't know it four years ago, because you didn't do anything. We didn't receive a plan. Did the previous Minister, the predecessor of my predecessor, who was responsible for the Ministry of the Environment and Energy, handed over a plan for what would happen to Western Macedonia when, in fact, PPC would be led to gradually ending the operation of these plants, because they are inconsistent, put it in, write many damages? "Get in" when it works. You didn't deliver anything at all. Do you know what you delivered? Let me tell you what you delivered. Do you remember what the aid rate the Greek state could give through European programmes or through the Public Investment Programme for the development of that region? 25%, 35% and 45%. A company that was going to West Macedonia, ladies and gentlemen, to start a new activity, to create jobs, if it was large, had a 25% investment aid, if it was medium 35% and if it was a small 45%. Today and after the efforts of the current government, this has become 50%, 60% and 70%. For a small company, if it goes to invest in that area, it has the ability of the Greek State to finance this investment project with 70% grant. Here's how they're gonna get investments in the area to create jobs! However, it seems you did not know them, you understood now that you were out of government and New Democracy came to rule this place. In my dentistry I will say details of the questions you have raised in particular, although we have answered them many times and will be able to discuss them regularly. The decision taken by the Prime Minister of the country, Kyriakos Mitsotakis, to reduce Europe's quickest frustration: firstly, it puts Greece at the forefront of the European effort to protect the environment and reduce the causes of climate change, in this way and the effects of the climate crisis. Secondly, we have come and set up an integrated, holistic plan, development of this area, development of other activities, so that we can replace what is slowly fading and which has had to be from your own governance years before it has been planned and now we are ready to implement. But we still don't waste time.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u34	The rest, Minister, in your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u35	I shall conclude, Mr President. Thirdly, in the next few years at least EUR 5 billion will be promoted for the development of these regions. This does not mean that if necessary and if we find new sources of funding, we will not be able to make use of other financial instruments to help those areas that you have forgotten by 2019. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u36	Mrs. Perka, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes. Please do not open any further issues in three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u37	I'm not opening. I asked...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u38	How come you don't open up? You went to the questions when you arrived at three minutes earlier. Let me say something to everyone. Questions are known to the ministers. You'll all be finalized in the prescribed time. Two minutes for the protology, three for the denology. It has been over an hour and we have not completed three topical questions and we have twenty. Here, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u39	If anyone was out of the question today, that was the Minister. He did not answer any of the key questions at all. And the unemployed in Western Macedonia won't say you didn't know. You have answered a question that I did not ask you because it is good for liberation. With you! Illegalization without a plan? Destroy the area? To increase unemployment and to find some friends of yours to invest in land that has not yet advanced spatial planning, which we do not know where it is? It's embarrassing what you're doing. Very specific and elegant questions. What did our government do? NSEC and World Bank report and the first National Fair Fund and a design, energy communities, participation of society. Where are these, Minister? That's what I asked you today. Is the local community involved at all? Will you tell us what these sixty thousand territories are, and how do you value the two forty-two? Will you tell us about the European Commission and State aid? But I'll tell you what you're bragging about. Today I had a press release. You haven't been able to read it. Aid 50% -60% -70% is not a success for any government. It is a line of the European Commission - I have the information - and it concerns all the regions of Europe which are in the A or C category. For our country, these rates apply to all regions except Attica, because of GDP, and to Western Macedonia and lignite regions only 10%, my Minister, the aid above. See the evidence that confirms this. But I'm coming back. We cannot generally speak of a 'green transition' beyond society, because the 'green transition' must be fair. It cannot leave behind villages that still burn, neither unemployment nor desertification. But we'll see you tomorrow when you come without suggestion to tell us about climate law. [[At this point, the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits a warning bell.]] I want answers for the land. I want evidence. I want you to tell me how the value of land that PPC gives is valued and how much the cost of restoration is equal. And I want you to tell me exactly what part the SPV is gonna play, the special purpose vehicle. And of course, we don't have any information about the units. What about those shells? Will PPC keep them? That is what you must answer, Minister, to know, to plan, to help us as well. Because from the geo-information map of the Energy Regulatory Authority it appears that PPC holds for its own use to implement its own PPC PV investment plan, the "fillets", what they do not want much restoration. The rest? What's the rest? Where's he going to give them? You're telling us he'll pay the cost of rehabilitation, but the simple one. He's here to activate the 200 megawatts and you said he wanted 5,500 acres. So 2,5 Yagawatts need 65,000-70,000 acres. There's nothing left over. Leave for funding. Three hundred here, three hundred and fifty there. It's your papers, the government. Other with loans elsewhere with Recovery Fund. What about that money? And like we said, we're one. We were first committed to liberation, but in our resources they went through countries that have no commitment. And I shall end, Mr President, on spatial planning. Because whatever we discuss if the space is not settled, no investment can be made. When will the programming contract come between RIS and PPC? We got 2021. In 2023 you said everything would be over. A year they made a provision. When will GDP and mining studies be amended? For the specific town planning projects PPC will conduct a strategic environmental impact study that should be conducted in consultation with the contractor, then a number of technical studies on geotechnicals, demarcations, aquariums, a strategic environmental impact study that should be submitted for treatment in the CPI and then the Presidential Decrees should be issued and the restoration studies should be started. When all this will be done, Minister. The only quick thing you've done was an announcement from there and beyond nothing and destruction. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u40	Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u41	Thank you, Mr President. My colleague did not understand that in the first question I really answered the substance of the things we are discussing today. The fact that the deflation and gradual reduction of lignite generation activity was something that was not done was not decided in 2019 that we undertook. We and the Prime Minister decided to do this with a plan, with a vision and faster than any other European country. In fact, however, it had begun and you did nothing. Of course, you come and say, "Well, what did you get after all? You took 10 units plus more than we would take anyway if we were in government." Twenty-five points more than what you delivered! Aid 25% in every category, small, medium or large, public support over what you delivered. Okay, it's a small thing. Nothing happened. So let me say that 1.6 billion is public spending. Because something sounded like 800 million, and so forth. A total of 5 billion will be invested in the years to come through the draft of a fair transition that we have planned in Western Macedonia, in the Municipality of Megalopolis and in some islands, I repeat, which are indeed affected by the carbonisation that we are trying to do. Because, I repeat, it is the New Democracy that government is the one that proposes, above all, the protection of the environment and of our planet. Because above all, ladies and gentlemen, we must recognise that this is important, deliver an environment, a planet where the next generations of Greeks will be able to live in the same or better conditions than those we have experienced. As far as the territorial plan is concerned, we are talking about 60,000 acres that it includes. A total of 240,000 acres forming the core of lignite farms. Firstly, it doesn't all need to be restored. Some people don't need rehab.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u42	How much?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u43	Secondly, a large part of them will be restored by PPC itself. Thirdly, 60,000 acres are those which will be restored as we have told you with money from the Fair Transfer Fund. I would also like to tell you that in the areas where PPC operates, and in accordance with Article 155(4), a programme contract between the Ministry and PPC is to be concluded which will be ratified by Parliament and which will be discussed. Also, there is a detailed territorial plan for Megalopolis. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] With regard to the restoration, training and consultation of the territorial transition plans, there were plans and presented and discussed in the Coordinating Committee on 8-2-2021. Subsequently, they were consulted by 19-32021, accompanied by a specific structured agenda and questionnaire to facilitate operators and public consultation of territorial plans. In particular, for the Region of Western Macedonia, it was transmitted to twenty-seven bodies - services, this project and was further promoted by the ECDC Megalopolis to further twenty-two bodies and services. The consultation comments were decentralised to work tables, codified and categorised. It follows and takes place at the very important stage of the preparation of the consultation comments, and it will incorporate the comments, which will naturally lead to adaptations to the original texts and territorial plans. All you say is done and it would be nice to see and take and take part in them if you are interested. Let us also say that comments are being used and processed in cooperation with the relevant JEPs and sectorally in the context of the programme coordination with the policy makers.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u44	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u45	For the assessment of the value of land, there are express terms and conditions for the upgrading of land by PPC. The obligations are to monitor the performance of the contract, to transfer to the State the ownership of the imminent areas currently owned by PPC SA, as well as any other rights and obligations resulting from these areas. At this stage, the perimeter of the transferred areas shall be finalised. It is estimated that two thirds of these areas will come to the Greek State. The whole area, and the areas that will be brought to PPC and those that will be brought to the Greek State, will be restored with the completion of the mining activity. I should also like to stress that the data on the value of the areas to be transferred, as well as the corresponding restoration costs, will be included in the programming agreement between the Ministry and PPC which is to be ratified in the House as soon as it is ready and we will have the opportunity to discuss it. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u46	I must say that in this year there should have been five topical questions and only three debates. We move on to the second with number 741/10-5-2021 topical question from the Second Chamber of Parliament B2' Western Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Mrs Harulas (Haras) Kafantaris to the Minister of Civil Protection, on the subject: "Anti-Pyrical Period 2021". Mrs. Kafantaris, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u47	Thank you, Mr President. Finally, we are debating a timely question which has been tabled since 12 April, before the start of the anti-missile. We are discussing it today, even seventeen, eighteen days at its beginning. In fact, the situation cannot be said to be very good. I must say that the risk in our region and Greece is great. There's a lot of forest fires. In 2020 we had the most forest fires of 10 years - eleven thousand seven hundred ninety-nine - and in 2021 it continues to be unsatisfactory. Of course, climate change, climate conditions affect the wider region. But I think that's not all. Minister, at 24 o'clock, 14.15 of the month, we had seven fires, the previous one had twenty-seven fires and he went out and said. In fact, apart from what is being discussed, as many times as we have heard of you both on television and in the media and in the House with a draft law on firefighting about about a month ago, you are talking about your great achievement, Law 4662, on the reorganisation of civil protection and the establishment of the national mechanism. But let us take a step further than the general ones, which we have heard many times, and talk more specifically in today's debate. You are going to tell us about 'ORLAO', 'DARDANO', the 'BOREA' project. We have heard these, Minister, and I would say that they are designs on paper, designs from worthwhile and executives and scientists from the General Secretariat. You are advertising Law 4662 on the restructuring of civil protection which would solve all the issues, but you have not adopted regulations yet - and this is very important - at the same time that, in March last year, you put the law inactivity. We have been using projects that were before decades, in the laws of 2003 and in essence - in the well-known 'Xenocrates', Minister, and - and here is a matter - you are selectively using some articles of the new law, such as Articles 25, 26, which you recently declared in a situation of special mobilisation of the Civil Protection of Attica.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u48	Ask questions, Mrs. Kafantari.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u49	Wait a minute, Mr. President. Please. Minister, these are very serious issues...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u50	We must apply the Rules of Procedure. You're in three minutes and we haven't heard one question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u51	At the moment, Minister, on the basis of the question we have put to you, we ask that you reply to specific questions. First of all, we want you to tell us if there is a specific design, at which stage is the forest fire-fighting mechanism and what the operational plan is to address it. Here, of course, in your famous law is Article 23, which I do not know whether or not you have used it in this particular case. The second and very important question is about air means. Is the air fleet ready? Have they been maintained? What exactly is the number of leased airs? What is the timetable for the development of leased - and the national fleet - and what are the foundations for their development? These are the questions. The rest I shall refer to secondary.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u52	Four minutes! Mr Minister, you have the floor for your prototype with the request that the three-minute time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u53	Thank you, Mr President. Mrs Kafantaris, however sharp you are trying to become, for obvious reasons, your real anxiety and concern about these issues, I will recognize it. They're linking us to common struggles from shared moments for both the Hymitus and the past. I understand the need to express a reasoning on the national mechanism that was not there. We have not talked about the reorganisation of the national mechanism, but about the establishment of a national mechanism with 4662. And I really regret the delay in some implementing provisions which, in the vast majority, do not concern operational matters, concern development. Because you know very well that 4662 does not only have the operational part, it also has issues other than the reorganisation of the firefighting, which relate to the very important issue of education, of voluntary organisations and of the national mechanism, which, in any case, is operational and ready to be adapted. I want to make something clear. It is a given that the pandemic has not left us behind, but changed, if you like, our approaches and doctrines on many operational issues. And in the next few days, as I have told you - and in June - we will be coming to the House to supplement, to amend No.4662 by adding mechanisms, centres which are very necessary, and which concern both forecasting and monitoring, concerning the management of crises, natural disasters, health risks and our sensitive structures. In any case, however - and I understand that, as in the management of the crisis, time is vague, so to the topical questions and, indeed, on such an important subject, time is vague - we have completed our operational planning since the beginning of March in relation to the anti-nuclear period that we are running. We are carefully preparing for a plan, with a clear and clear interest and anguish for this period, during which - as you have rightly said - the fires have already written a record in relation to the season and in relation to the actual facts. What are the data in relation to our preparation? I will go directly to the issue you raise and concern us all, which is about air means. The maximum number of available national airspace fleet instruments remains the same, with any problems: Nine CL - 215 Canander, five CL - 415, nineteen PZL. Their development at the beginning of the anti-nuclear period will take place according to the prevailing meteorological conditions - this is already progressing, it is already gradually ready - but also operational mobilisation requirements and will be implemented by the middle by the end of June. This is a process followed by the Fire Corps, so that the cycle closes and by the end of September we have all these means available. Also, there are three Canander CL - 215 in Andravid, two in Anchovies, four will attempt from their mother base in Elefsina. Two CL -415- our newest Canander - are expected to attempt from Elefsina and three from their mother base in Thessaloniki. From a pair of PZL to Tatoi - what will actually do the surveillance - in Andravida, in Zakynthos, in Aktio, in Lamia, in Mytilini, in Kavala, in Kefalonia, in Corfu and three ships in Kalamata. I would like to assure you that the Headquarters of the Fire Corps, in cooperation with the General Secretariat for Civil Protection, has already carried out all the relevant actions, the necessary meetings - you know and have experience - at the final level and with the General Staff of National Defence, but also with the Air Force General Staff, in order for these aircraft, despite their problems, to be operationally ready for the anti-missile period, while, following recommendations from the officials of the Fire Corps, that is to say, the Committee on the current anti-nuclear need for additional airborne equipment to be available. So, apart from the existing instruments that we have - that is, the three Sinnooks, of which two are in the Megarra, one in Rhodes, which you know quite well that they operate in the event of emergency, and the two Super Puma in the Firehouse and all three BKs, which are used in the surveillance, coordination, transfer of personnel, but also air-cream helicopters wherever necessary, and the police helicopters of the Air Safety Instruments Agency that operate as a substitute in the piece of the surveillance - remain in the same doctrine as the hired helicopters, only differing in quantity. You know very well that until two years ago, we had six heavy ones. Last year we made a difficult decision and nine of the heavy ones. This decision has proved to be salvages, because you realise that we are coming to meet the needs that have been created by the old Canader fleet we have. This year the need - even greater - for tenth heavy...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u54	The rest in your dentistry, Minister. Close with the last sentence.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u55	Let me ask not to do a second. To complete my protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u56	No, we'll apply the Rules of Procedure.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u57	All right, I'll finish with the air and then...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u58	Put a perfect one and you'll continue later.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u59	Good. So, in fact, ten heavy Erikson type, nine that we had last year - two in Elefsina, two in Tatoi, one in Andravida, one in Anchialo, one in Tripoli, one in Tanagra, one in Chania - and one added this year to Thessaloniki. Why in Thessaloniki? Firstly, because from last year's statistics there has been an increase in the fires in the wider region of Central Macedonia and especially in Eastern Macedonia, and always the issue of Halkidiki, but also in Sheikh Soo, we are concerned about it, it is an anguish and a concern despite the cleansing that has been done. It remains the twelve middle-sizes M8 and Kamov and at the same time the middle-speaking sections that we hired last year. It concerns the two new axes that we created in the Aegean Sea and the Ionian Sea based in Araxos and Samos to cover the specific operational track.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u60	Thank you. You're going to continue in your dentistry. Mrs Kafantaris has the floor for three minutes for her denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u61	First of all, what I want to say is that since 24 June 2020 we have had an answer from your Ministry, Minister, on the design for the anti-nuclear fight and the implementation of the law on the reorganisation of civil protection and the establishment of the national mechanism. Last year you say that they are issued wherever the regulations are. A year has passed, and unfortunately the government is using pandemic - I am sorry - to this part too. And that's total. It's not just about you. Secondly, on air means, we have to say that the supply by government of SYRIZA was ensured by competitive procedures through NSPA and heavy and medium-sized vehicles. You raised the number. I won't say, it's good. But what I would like to say, Mr Minister, is that we are in these days - and I come back to the first part of my position - witness communications movements - and what I said about the special surveillance regime - from the Civil Protection, meetings with the Ministry of the Environment, to protect the perimeter forests, etc. I would say, however, that the Government, first of all, did not take advantage of the national forestry strategy drawn up in SYRIZA and the fire prevention plan which included concrete proposals and actions concerning the environ­ment and, in general, the contact of the settlement with the forest. Of course it did not go ahead with a work programme for prevention policies. Because - you know that too - Civil Protection first of all is prevention policies. And I return to what I asked at the beginning, Mr President, about national planning. If there is - the Minister said that there is - he did not respond specifically to us beyond the number of air means available. But there are too many issues here. Have exercises been carried out for example, have all these prevention policies been carried out, will they now take place in an anti-nuclear period? Here again comes the following: As far as RIS and Citizen Protection cooperation is concerned, you did not use a specific decision that came out in the spring of 2019 for the cooperation of a Fire Corps and Forest Services, including specific recruitments. The issue of protecting the wealth of our country, natural wealth, forest wealth is very important. People are fighting, firefighters of all kinds in the sense that there are permanent, seasonal, five-year-olds or volunteers of the Fire Corps. And I would like to say, Minister, that you look at the self test for volunteers who can't get it and pay it out of their pockets. Find a way. It doesn't apply to all the volunteers of the Fire Corps. But it's unfair when they offer these services. And finally, I would like to say this: is there, Minister, a covid protocol in the firehouse today? How do you follow and what happens? Of course it's not within the questions, but you can be placed. However, anti-nuclear and forest protection are not communication. It's a job, it's prevention, it's a human factor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u62	The Minister has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u63	First of all, you force me to say something that I am avoiding, because I have told you that for me the issue of civil protection is a matter of understanding and cooperation. But when I hear you keep telling us that we did not use the plans of the previous government, you will allow me to tell you that no plans were made by the previous government, none at all. As regards the general plan of the ‘OIL’, 2013 was the last time a general plan came out. You were five years government and you did not make use of or update a plan. And this government came here, and not only did it for IOLAO - you say you will tell us the same again, I will tell you again - but also for DARDANO and for NOREA. The country did not have a general disaster response plan and acquired at each level. It has not only acquired the general plan - which I am once again tabling in the Minutes - but we have also created an emergency plan for all the municipalities in the country so that it will not be the ravage of every study office or any logical, studying approach, the result of which could not be exploited. [[At this point, the Deputy Minister for Civil Protection, Mr Nikolaos Chardalias, presents for the minutes the above mentioned documents, which are in the Archives of the Secretariat of the Department of Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Don't blame us on this, Mrs. Kafantari, we've done a huge job in this part. And I'll finish a little bit 'cause I didn't have time. There are so many issues that in six minutes I cannot analyse the anti-nuclear design. This year, for the first time, we incorporate into our airline design and two new media. First, six light amphibians, AIR TRACTORs with a capacity to carry three tonnes, namely three flocks, as additives to support island regions. A flock will be in the Ionian Sea, one in the Aegean Sea and one in Attica with an allocation that will be set in the coming days. Autonomous flight crew filled, - loaded flying - five hours. You realize that was a request from the fire department at times. It is very important when we have the fours and fives in Attica not to have twenty-minute preparedness, but at the same time to be in the air those airplanes who, in five minutes, can insult any fire. And at the same time to be able to see the issue of retardant and the major problems that arise after the last light we do not have the opportunity, we have hired and completed, in consultation with the Russian Government, a medium-sized amphibian, Beriev Be -200 for a hundred and twenty-day period for the whole territory, which has the ability to carry twelve tons and drops into eight instalments. You realize how important it is when we have extensive events in taking advantage of the specific application of retardants. Apparently, airplanes aren't just those. We've moved on with the mayors. There's nothing communal. There's something practical. I asked the Firefighting - I tell you clearly - to run some models, some simulations and to answer the question, under any difficult circumstances if there could be areas with common characteristics such as Eye. Why? Because it's what hurts us, what we want to leave behind, what we want never to happen again. I would therefore inform you that under specific tests these eighteen regions were considered to be extremely dangerous. The Porto Germeno, the rope, the Tatoi, the Hippocrates State are areas where no communication policy exists. On the contrary, there is a letter from all the mayors on the ground to move fast the responsibilities, the responsibilities that we have and come to help with their efforts and to implement something you must admit that it was very important in the national mechanism. So far we've been crying over the ashes. We've proclaimed locations in emergencies after evil. We are now coming and declaring areas in urgent need of threatened risk. For what? In order to be able by direct procedures, flexible, to make the necessary cleansing, to prepare, the anti-nuclear zones, the openings so that we do not have the ping-poong of the responsibilities between forests, decentralised, mayors, districts, civil protection and all the mechanisms of the state. Is that bad? Is it a communication, Mrs. Kafantari? I, on every visit I'm going there, want you to be together, be able to be there and see the pulse of every ordinary citizen, who says that I don't care whose responsibility it is. And it appeared that some when they have responsibilities cannot execute them either due to a lack of money or a lack of means. Local government agencies are also making a huge effort, but their potential is limited.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u64	Close, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u65	So we move into eighteen areas. There are thirteen other regions in Greece that have such characteristics. We have already hired the two thousand five hundred seasonalists who are already on their posts. They're already trained in May. I will be sorry, but I would like to tell you that in 2019 this process was completed by you and the seasonals. And I'm not saying it because I want to create reproach, but because you like to compare situations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u66	Close, Minister. Don't go to any other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u67	In conclusion, I would like to say this: so the seasonals have been recruited, they have been well trained. Eighty new seasonal steps were opened last year for the anti-nuclear period. Seventy's working. This year the other ten will work because there were problems. And, of course, we've been triggering since 15/05 our volunteers, the firefighters who have been assisting the masses in this effort. And I'm telling you something else, ending up: let us leave the remorse of civil protection. I told you, we can all meet together and see what we've done in a year, see the new business centers, see the new HQ, see how we deal with the new dogmas, with the National Data Analysis Centre, with the new centers we're about to implement. Because this is our deposit on the next day, our children. Children must be and feel safe, our country must be safe and, in order to do so, it needs cooperation, and it needs understanding. I will say this once again, the issue of civil protection is a deeply patriotic issue and we must all cooperate together.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u68	Before going to the next one, I will again point out that, from everyone, both from my fellow Members and from the ministers, the timely questions are turned into questions. There are specific questions and a warm request for specific answers to be given. We can't afford twice as much time as we can. Let's go to the first with number 725/10-5-2021, a top-circuit question for the first-circuit MEP, Nea Efstratios (Stratou) Simopoulos to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: ‘Economic support for coastal fishermen through the 2014-2020 Operational Fisheries and Sea Programme’. Mr. Simopoulos, you have the floor for your prototype for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u69	Thank you, Mr President. I will not abuse time, but I take the opportunity to say to my dear colleague Mrs Kafantari that from 2015 to 2019 I was called twice by Civil Protection considering that I am still Secretary-General of Public Works. They didn't even update their lists, at that level was Civil Protection! I now come to that specific question. As you know, Minister, fishing is an important sector in the Greek economy and it is becoming even more important because it is our islands, especially in the remote islands. We are all well aware of the problems of fishing, particularly in the coastal areas, and the problems that arise in relations with our neighbours. In the covid, the fisheries and coastal sector are known to have suffered a severe blow. The Government has tried to support the sector through European programmes and even through an action called "Full fishing activities", by Measure 3.1.9 of the Operational Fisheries Programme 2014-2020. However, 95% of coastal fishermen were excluded from this effort because they did not have the satellite tracking system, the famous VMS. I think that this action must be repeated, I believe that there must be a second cycle, and I believe that the Ministry must find the right way to include all fishermen in this second cycle, with particular emphasis on coastal fishermen, who have been excluded from the first cycle. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u70	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos, for keeping time. Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u71	Thank you, Mr President, and I would also like to thank my fellow Member for his concern with the issue that has been decisive, so that we can find ways to stand side by side with those who are affected. It is true that at a rapid pace we are progressing, steps towards freedom are progressing and evolving. This does not mean, however, that neither can we say "Go, the pandemic has passed" and much more "Go, the consequences of pandemic have passed", the economics, in a number of sectors of the primary sector and the fishermen. It's here, the footprint of the economic crisis is here, their income is shrinking, they are experiencing problems. In order to continue in the new era of growth and competitiveness, we must restore, as far as possible, the losses which have been suffered in the previous period. That's what we do in the primary sector. Over 520 million have so far been allocated for support in the primary sector and in the fisheries sector. In particular, it is true that measure 3.1.9 has been triggered in support of fishermen as a result of the cessation of fishing activities. It was a measure that we agreed with the Community in the methodology, money, norms, was a measure which was directed at Greek fishermen. However, there was a very substantial problem: the cessation of fishing activities had to be documented in a way that would not be called into question. Satellite signals were selected for this - the colleague mentioned it - the satellite automatic vessel tracking device, and through this procedure several vessels for a period from March to October documented a cessation of fishing activities up to ninety days and received the aid, compensation, for the loss of income. The big issue, however, for our country, because this is the situation and so our fishing fleet is structured, is that only 7.5% of the fishing vessels have these devices. So, in fact, people who had stopped fishing could not join this action - in fact, there was a Catholic lockdown - and they were unable to channel their products because the focus was closed and they could not have access to Community money. For part of these fishermen, as they know themselves, but also the Government, and Mr Simopoulos, who is very systematically involved in the issue, we had developed de minimis funding, through which some 12.5 billion was allocated to several of these fishermen. However, the compensation was lower in size, it was not such that it could cover or compensate for their lost income due to the cessation of fishing activities. So we had to find ways, so that within the methodology required by the Commission - what methodology is it? There is an absolutely undeniable element, to testify to the fact that the vessels did not fish, that there was actually a cessation of fishing activities and, of course, that all the rest provided for by the law and the regulation are valid - we had to find a way to incorporate in this methodology and those who did not have this satellite system. Indeed, through dialogue and with the people themselves - I would like to stress it and highlight it - with the very active and substantial help of Mr Simopoulos and other Members of Parliament, we have opened up roads, we have found ways and we are in consultation with the European Commission - I will say more specific things in my dentistry - which I think we will have very positive results in this direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u72	Thank you, Minister. We went well to the prototypes. Mr Simopoulos, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u73	Minister, thank you very much for the answer. Of course, thanks above all, through the Greek Coastal Fisheries Association, with which we had also held the meeting, where we analysed all the issues and to which I must note that the Member of the Dodecanese Parliament, Mr Yiannis Pappas, participated. I would like to have a timetable, if you can, for how this decision is to be implemented and some elements in particular. On this occasion, I would like to take note of a number of other issues which concern, for example, phytoplankton compensation. It is an issue that your Ministry can well see, because we are used to ELGA compensation for agricultural crops, while it could well compensate for such catastrophes in substance or under which fishing is prohibited. I would also like to draw your attention to the question of cod, because nets are being destroyed. In order not to ask the honourable Members how I deal with fishing so much, I will say that we have a very large population of vessels in Kalamaria and Krini in Thessaloniki, areas included in the first region. To conclude, Minister, I would like to stress that what you have done must be an example for all of us, for all the government officials - we have the way, if we analyse matters properly, if we listen to the productive classes, if we use all the means that we have - for how we can give solutions to issues relating to everyday life, the lives of thousands of professionals and, above all, micro-enterprises, such as coastal fishermen. I would point out again that what is happening in this Chamber today is an overall example for the entire government. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u74	Thank you, Mr Simopoulos, for keeping time and consistency. Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u75	As I pointed out in my prototype, the main issue we had to overcome was how it would be certified in a way that would not be called into question by the fact that there was indeed a cessation of fishing activities for those vessels that did not have VMS. From the very detailed debate we have had on your own initiative and Mr Papapas' initiative, it has emerged that these vessels have the fishing logbook in which, with certification, by means of a public authority stamp, i.e. the Port House, it proves which days they fish and which days they are anchored in the port. So this opened us a way out of fighting in the narrow letter of the Rules of Procedure, which is clear, and I will say that many times and rightly because of the pressure they had at the first time we were looking to find a way to compensate all the people who had been affected by their incomes because of the covid in the primary sector, the services did not see it so wide. Nevertheless, we have opened a consultation procedure with the European Commission. I think, Mr President, that by the end of the week we will have the final answers. There is therefore the possibility for fishing vessels that had not entered Measure 3.1.9 from March to 31/12 for ninety days to find the same way of aid, compensation and the first measure. For those ships that had been exempted from infringements by the Port Authority, from the first measure, to be reviewed if they have repaired these infringements and these people have to be strengthened, since of course all other conditions apply. And in cooperation with the Ministry of Shipping and Island Policy, where necessary, with the Port House, always on the basis of what we have as a certification of the fact that they did not look for ways, always within the framework of the welfare of European regulations, always within the framework of the law, where they exist, to stand on the side of the professionals, the people of the primary sector, who really need to help them and help them to get away from them and the economic consequences of the coronary and to move forward competitively, resiliently, on the next day. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u76	Thank you, Minister. We move to the twelfth under number 747/10-5-2021 a topical question from the SYRIZA MP Pella - Progressive Alliance of Mrs Theodoras Jackis to the Minister for Rural Development and Food, on the subject: "The frost of 8, 9 and 10 April 2021 gave the graceful shot to the trees of Pella". Here, Mrs. Jackres, you have the floor for two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u77	Minister, indeed the icebergs that took place 24, 25 and 26 March, as well as 8, 9 and 10 April in Pella and Imathia have completely destroyed the crop. This means that table peaches and colluding, nectarines, cherries, apricots, plums, lotus, almonds, apples were completely destroyed. It is such that the extent and intensity of the damage that has led to total nullification of production, and this has led to an unreasonable despair of farmers and their families, as they account for, Minister, that they will be facing a survival problem this year. Because these damages occurred at a point where most of the farming operations had been completed and people waited for some economic breath from the beginning of the harvest season to take place in the next few days. I would also like to point out that agricultural production in Pella is the backbone of the local economy, and with this frost it is conducive to the collapse of the entire economic activity, as well as businesses with turnover, such as commercial, manufacturing, agricultural cooperatives, are also involved in a collapse. Let me tell you that the agricultural sector in recent years is not going well at all, it is going from a crisis to a crisis, firstly, because of the low prices that farmers receive for reasons that are not here to analyse. Secondly, because huge natural disasters often occur because of the exacerbation of climate change phenomena, and thirdly, Minister, because the covid-19 pandemic has caused a great financial problem, in the sense that we have closed tourism, closed focus, great unemployment, etc. The members of the ELGA who visited our region along with the local MPs refer to "Janu". This means that compensation should be granted as soon as possible, meaning that the ELGA should be strengthened with human resources to proceed with the assessment work. This year the volume of declarations is enormous. There are natural disasters from Florina to Messinia. The number of damage claims is outrageous. Let me just tell you that Imathia has come twenty-four geopolitics and need another fifty, first at least to start the appreciation work. It means that compensation should be paid to 100% of the assessment findings. It means, Minister, most importantly, that advances per tree should be made against future payments, which will be given early next year, whenever you tell us. Because, you know, there may not be production, but farmers must go on with cultivation work, that is to say, they should be subjected to current expenditure. And if you see here that they have to bioliquid for a long time without income, they are more necessary than ever. Also, Minister, at the dialogue table, we see whether we are talking about 'Janu' compensation, that insurance contributions must be offset by future payments, that there must be an exemption for farmers from value-added fees. Because, Minister, you must understand that there is no liquidity at all. This is therefore a minimum package to support agricultural production. Of course I do not want to talk about the competence of other ministers. Enterprises, cooperatives, related enterprises, with one-off aid, should be supported, favourable banking arrangements should be made, interest rate reductions, many instalments,...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u78	Finish, Mrs. Jackie, don't get into any other issues.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u79	...and, of course, a programme must be carried out within the meaning of the old LEAEC, the training of workers in the agricultural sector. I mean for the permanent employees of cooperatives, so that this sector can be held. I would also like to ask you, Minister, on the occasion of the fact that the glacier phenomenon is now pan-European, at least for the whole of the European South - it has happened in Italy, France, Spain - if you have made a joint request with other countries and the co-legislative ministries to the European Commission so that we can make use of European resources. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u80	Minister, you have the floor for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u81	Madam President, all the crops affected and all the producers affected will be compensated in good time and fair time. We have made it clear from the very first moment of this very extreme weather phenomenon that support will be universal and will be of concern to everyone. Besides, the mechanism has moved from the first moment, it's still moving. The Prime Minister - to remind you - immediately after the ice wave was completed, he had the opportunity to establish firsthand the size of the disaster and to commit himself to making every effort to ensure that in time, justly, within the framework of the regulations and the possibilities that we have, those affected will be compensated. It is true that we have experienced an unprecedented phenomenon this year in terms of ice-cream, mainly in terms of their duration, from mid-March to the first ten days of April - on such a large area of ice-cream in the country we had never lived - and resulting in many and large disasters in many geographical compartments, in Pella, Imathia, Thessaly, Thessaly, Fithitida, Arcadia. And Mr Lebanese and I personally had the opportunity to see the extent of these disasters very closely. It is therefore our absolute priority and commitment - we have proved it in the past on the basis of 'January' - to support the people who have suffered damage, who want income, who need to be supported in order to do the cultivation operations, the cultivation processes required to continue to be productive and competitive. This extensive damage, which is not only about glaciers and “Medea” previously and what had been preceded, shows us that climate change is not extraordinary and sudden. It came to stay and confront us with disasters which three, four, five years ago were not used to cause such great problems in production. Why am I saying that? In addition to the compensation, beyond the measures, I will say more specific things in my dentistry, it opens up a very large debate and this debate needs to be opened, and for the reform of the ELGA Regulation and for the creation of other financial instruments from which our producers can draw support when confronted with this kind of discomfort and for the utilization of the ESDP measures, so that they can become much more resilient. Throughout the value chain, seeing the primary sector, in addition to payments, in addition to compensation, in addition to grants, we need to find ways of supporting measures that will enable them to be shielded as best as possible against these kinds of extreme weather phenomena that shrink their income even more. This is not an attempt which is limited only within the limits of the country. Already Mr Lebanese has put the matter to the Ministers on the informal board 15-20 days ago. We have a Council of Ministers in Brussels to discuss again the possibility of supporting compensation for the extreme weather phenomena faced by the country and other countries and in this direction a part of our overall agricultural policy is aimed at creating conditions both in infrastructure and in technology and finance, so that the Greek producer can find the support he needs when faced with these extreme phenomena.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u82	Thank you, Minister, and the consistency in time. Mrs. Jackie has the floor for her second language for three minutes. Mrs. Jackrey, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u83	Mr Minister, what you said to us today, I am sorry to say to you, but they are statements and they are well known. I asked this question to be discussed after 15 May because the government officials are coming to and going to Pella, we do not prevent their visits and walks, but none of them are specific. The proposals are all on the table and I would expect you to tell me specific things today to be practical and useful first and foremost. Will the advances be given? When and what height? They must be paid as soon as possible. Look, seventeen years ago a similar phenomenon had been provided by tree advances. At that time, 3 euros had been given to the tree. I should like to tell you here that because we need to deal with future work and the problem of family survival must be, in fact, 5 euros, the tree, which means that in a forty-peach peach she has to be 200 euros a acre, Minister, because in fact these compensations and advances are coming to restore any income this year from agricultural production. When will these be given? You said it was on the table and you're discussing it to be the basis of this year's statements. The system closes on 16-15 June. By 15 July the system shall be closed for corrections. This means that, if you go forward, there must first be preparation, preparedness and a visit from the Ministry on 16 and 17 July, advances can be made, if there is political will, for farmers to be able to cope with the problem of their survival. You have to understand. Their desperation is indescribable. The situation is very tragic. Second, is the compensation going to be paid to 100% of the damage based on the poem? Because that means 'Janus'. Will insurance contributions be netted and compensation paid in the future? Will they get rid of the price charge? These, Minister, are a package of 'Janus', because otherwise the state has not understood the exceptional situation and the exceptional circumstances that Pella is experiencing at the moment, otherwise we will go to a normal procedure of compensation which means 'lived May to eat a triple'. In other words, we are going to get the first compensation in March 2022, as happens every year. With regard to what you told me about the change of the ELGA regulation, I am sorry, Minister, but I was old and old, and I am self-criticising about that. Do you know how many people have gone from where you guys are from who talked to us about changing the infamous ELGA regulation more in a direction, if you like, pro-agricultural? They haven't even started the premeditated projects we left you to lead to a final plan, to a final deliverable. On this occasion, Minister, I would like to tell you something very serious. For many years now, I strongly support the need to restructure peaches. You know, I think we should go along with this, first of all, the restructuring of the tables of varieties and, secondly, the reorganization of peaches. I think it is time for us to go to a rationalisation of peaches with new dynamic crops and new varieties. This will lead, if you wish, to a significant reduction in the inputs of 20%, 30%, that is to say, medicines and fertilisers, and also, Mr Minister, we will also reduce water consumption and go to streamline and modernise farming. I have asked the Minister a question and he answered that we have the rural development programme for this year of 30,000 000. I would like to ask you, Minister, why is there great insecurity on the part of farmers, that 250,000 000 million are entirely directed towards the restructuring of the peaches crop or other crops? In any case, however, because I think that this measure is very important, it should go ahead with the planning, consultation of this particular measure in order to do so. And to go to a more, if you want, sustainable, innovative environmentally-friendly productive model in Pella and Imathia is very important, Minister. I would also like to ask you this opportunity and something else. Because adverse weather conditions due to the phenomenon of climate change will increasingly be increased in the next period, producers will need to be strengthened by active protection measures, Minister. I'm referring to why...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u84	Mrs. Jackie, finish it up. Don't generalize, please stay on the question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u85	... artificial rain systems which should be injected through the program at 100%. The ELGA cannot give it, I understand it, but farmers must be helped by these means to reduce the damage caused by natural disasters.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u86	Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u87	Thank you, Mr President. Despite the fact that no one can question the sincere interest of any fellow Member in the blows that the producers feel at their income in the Greek region, in our Greek regions, I believe that your opposition attitude is wrong in your interest, Mrs Jakris, and your designations I think they are wrong as well as the government. The government officials in Pella and Imathia, Mrs. Jackri, did not come for a walk when they announced the compensation de minimis of 8.350,000 to the producers in your area. They do not walk either the head of ELGA or the government officials when every presence there, in coordination with our relevant partners, results in the ELGA procedures moving rapidly today. As we are now in the process of getting the labels completed, the announcements have been opened and the statements on the producers' damage are being made. The deadline was fixed on 11 May 2021 and a new extension was granted until 14 May. It is not a walk or, in any case, an vague move that we have succeeded and acted very quickly this year with additional people who need and very soon from ten people who were there to do the job of evaluation and assessment, today they are working thirty and in a very short time they will work fifty. As also, it is neither vague declaration nor obviously a walking product our clear commitment that everyone will be compensated, and those whose crops have been affected at the stage of flowering and fall under the ELGA regulation, and those who have damaged their herbal capital, and who are subject to the operation and the regulation of PESAs and all the others for whom there is a void, but with the appropriate financial instruments that we are going to make up for this equilibrium of fair compensation and treatment, we will also cover them with time, with procedures, at the rate of the ELGA as we have shown in the past. When? The aim is when producers would take their money from the disposal of their products. After all, you know that for the first time in the history of ELGA - because you said that years you have heard things and you do not see them happening - you saw for the first time this year that all the losses of 2020 were compensated in 2021. Why did that happen? Because for the first time in history things have changed in the ELGA operating regulations to be able to finance in time, things have changed in the status of labelling and evaluating damage. We get people more quickly and more experienced. It is this government that has allocated the 300,000 000 for the first time, as the state has to do, to the ELGA to be able to cover both operating costs and to compensate easily and quickly. This government is starting the process of preparing the issues posed by climate change, because nothing has been received by the ELGA administration, neither a proportionate study nor a preliminary study, nor anything has been received that can lead to a path of demanding, necessary, substantial change, because the landscape today has nothing to do with what was five, six, seven and eight years ago. Therefore, this dialogue, if we want to be constructive, should first of all recognise the enormous steps that have been taken. It is very accurate that the relationship of confidence that we have built with the Greek producers, particularly those who need the support and assistance of the state, we will safeguard it, we will strengthen it and very soon we will also announce the specific measures - your outline today - so that the producer knows when and what amount the compensation he is entitled to receive. All the producers affected - I repeat, and I close, Mr President, with this - will be compensated in good time and fair time. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u88	Thank you, too, for the consistency in time. Let me say that the sixth of a total of twenty topical questions has been completed, despite the warm request that we continue with the time and with specific questions and answers in particular. We're moving on to the next question. It is the ninth under No 727/10-5-2021 topical question of the second question of the Member of Parliament of Elias the Change Movement Mr Michael Katrin to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport on the subject: "Timetable of work of the "Patras - Tower" and completion of the "Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli"". Mr Katrin, you have the floor for two minutes on your prototype and you have a warm request that time be respected.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u89	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, this is the most important time we have in this Chamber to discuss the Patras - Tower road corridor, and before we discuss the most important issue of concern to the citizens of Elias, to make some assumptions. It is a project for which there have been timeless and cross-party responsibilities since 2007 for not completing it. The former government's responsibilities for the four and a half years have been overwhelming and nothing has been done. But two years ago the Prime Minister visiting Elia said that Patras - Tower is a first priority project and it has already been twenty-two months since the elections and the takeover of governance by the New Democracy. It has been almost a year - seven, eight days since you sent the European Commission the request for approval of a concession contract and five months since the final assessment, yours in this Chamber, that within six months - you said at that time - we will have approvals and that the project will be completed as a whole at the end of October 2024. Since then, until today, there has been nothing new, apart from some general communications made in the past few days, that you have been waiting for developments in the next six months. Work on improving the existing road has not even begun, since the competition, which was announced in this Chamber eleven months ago, has not been completed, while interregional travel has been opened and tourist traffic has begun. Three days ago, the Prime Minister, in your presence, met with Mrs. Westager and from what we read, at least from the media, the Patras - Tower was discussed. With regard to the semi-finished road Ancient Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli, with obvious development prospects for Elia and Arcadia, was finally not integrated, as we had discussed, into the Recovery Fund, but it is not clear what will be done on this road. Two questions, then, Minister, firstly, although after the debate before yesterday, you have received approval for the Patras tower road, when this motorway will finally begin and when it will finally be completed and, of course, along with this one is the question of the improvement of the existing network. Also, a second question is whether you will prefer the completion of the road Ancient Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli with funding from the OPs of the Peloponnese and Western Greece, as you said five months ago. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u90	Mr Konstantinos Karamanlis has the floor for his protagonist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u91	Mr President, your question really becomes extremely topical because, as you quite rightly said, we had a meeting with Mrs Westager, the Executive Vice-President of the European Commission, in the presence of the Prime Minister, on this subject, which seems to me to be something relatively unprecedented, that the Prime Minister himself for this particular project, if you like, is wasting a very large political capital, to see this project finally being carried out. So I repeat that 2021 will really be the year of speeding up all major projects, because we in the Ministry of Infrastructure have achieved these eighteen months, firstly, to unlock many flagship projects and, on the other hand, to mature a number of projects, because without maturation and preparation, valuable time is lost. Now we're going to this for this, Patras tower. From the first moment on we have chosen not to plunder and from the first moment on - it is a difficult road to go, because to tell the truth at times, especially in the political scene of the country, it is costly - we have said things with their name, and that was also our election commitments. What did we say, Mr. Catherine? We had said about the enormous dangers that were running the project because of the salinisation, and indeed it is also timely to ask you because in another Chamber here in Parliament we had a statement by Mr. Kalogrisa - I am talking about the case of possible criminal responsibilities of political persons for television licences - and we have seen that this project, if you want, is linked to the Patras - Tower, because the salinisation of the work was done all four of the eight pieces had been taken up by the contractor in question. So what did we do? Because you have referred to a number of issues which have nothing to do with reality. Maybe we're a little confused in the data, and I'll be very specific. We, as we had in your question on 11 December, did this: we received a ten-year extension, that is to say, so that it could be done by DG GROW, by the European Commission, and that work could be entered as a bridge in 2021-2027. With salamation, that couldn't happen. The European Commission, if we continued on the way to partitioning, would not finance the project after 2023. So we did this in the first half of our administration. What we did was also the hardest - which on 11 December we did not have an answer - and it was to go to DG GROW and ask for this work, that is, the 77 km of Patras tower to go back to the concession, which was very difficult to make, extremely provocative. I do not hide you, Mr Katrin, that the Government and personally the speaker took a huge risk, because the European Commission could tell us that we do not accept this. We finally managed to include the concession. The work will therefore be done. It is a given issue and it will take place within timescales by 2024. Now what did we do? We are now in the final stage, the third step, which is - if you like - and a relatively formal, but serious and time-consuming process. And don't forget - sometimes in this Chamber and in this country we forget - that for twelve months we have the biggest crisis, the global health crisis, which has really levelled everything at a bureaucratic level and in the European Union. Everything has gone a lot backwards. They've come all the way down. However, we have sent the forecast on 15 December 2020, the so-called pre-notification. We have received a reply from DG GROW in February with specific questions and specific clarifications. That's the process. We responded immediately in April 2021 to DG GROW, and in fact we have given all the data relating to the cost-benefit study, and now we are waiting for the answer from DG GROW. There is one issue here - and I shall end, Mr President, and in my dentext I shall come back to the other works, the sub-projects, so that I do not eat you the time - whether we wait for final notification or not. That's what we're talking about with Mrs. Westager. This is what the Prime Minister and the Group himself put it for her, because we have explained that we are mourning many lives every year, and that is why the European Commission - which has done so, as you have seen from all this - has not just stood up to the circumstances, but has really helped to relaunch this project. We are now waiting for the European Commission and DG GROW for the final green light to begin. So our timetable, despite the coronary crisis, has not changed and the objective of this project to be ready by 2024 is not something that is impossible. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u92	Thank you, too. Mr. Katrinis has the floor for his denology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u93	Thank you very much, Mr President. Minister, you are not obliged to know this, but within less than two hours of now there is a gathering of actors and residents in Elias, a protest gathering on the government's unjustified decision to leave Elias off the map of higher education. And, overall, it is a message of protest to the government both on the issue of university schools and on the fact that no work has been planned in the Recovery Fund, on health services issues and, of course, on the issue of Patras - Tower road. In fact, a Member of your resignation today has announced that, due to both Patras - Tower and the delay that exists, he will not be a candidate in the next elections. We have resignations of municipal councillors today. So there is a climate of frustration and, of course, the part of Patras - Tower you know very well. It is the most important work not of infrastructure, but of inspiration and development for the Prefecture of Elias. I have mentioned in my prototype and now say that I recognise that there have been responsibilities for too many years. But you too understand that for the past twenty-two months, at least in the last few months, responsibility has been burdening the government and you personally, as long as it is delayed. You set a schedule today. You said about the communication that exists with the Competition Committee. However, you did not specifically say when it is estimated that you will get the approval and the final green light, because you referred to a letter from December, February, April. I imagine that was a matter, as you said, of a debate with Mrs Westager. I, of course, did not hear a statement from Mrs Westager, which did not show good reasons for the government and development initiatives. I was expecting him to say something about the major infrastructure projects that I know were the subject of the debate. So you assure us that the project will be approved. However, you certainly do not give us an exact timetable. And you said very carefully that you appreciate that it will begin within 2021 and that it will be completed within 2024. I must say that you were a little more precise five months ago when we asked this question. Now, as far as the issue of the delay of the existing network is concerned, I think that cannot be attributed to European bureaucracy. You announced it a year ago here. I see that on December 29th, the Ministry's competition begins and it's still not over. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] I think that you, too, agree - and I conclude, Mr President - that the people of Elijah cannot wait any longer for the unjustified delay in the work of improving the existing road network - since you know that it is 'carniola' and that there are no specific dates on which we say that the autumn of 2021 begins and in thirty-six months is over. In fact, you committed yourself that with the new public procurement law you will try to give bonuses to speed up construction. I, Minister, expected to hear this from you today, so that we could have a note of hope and optimism. I want to believe that in the next period things will flow smoothly, despite the fact that you too cannot assure us of times and procedures. And for the part of the other breath project, Bytin - Ancient Olympia - because you know that Ancient Olympia is a sign of global heritage, but it has neither modern road network on the one hand nor on the other that connects it to the rest of the country - I would like you to give us a little more specific answers as to whether it is in your planning to go ahead with it and with what model of funding you believe you will do that. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u94	Here, Minister, you have the floor for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u95	Let's start with the first one. First of all, I would say that you are a little indisputable again, because for road improvements we have a temporary contractor. There's been a tender. There's been a compromise. And because you're swinging the finger right here, I'll tell you something else. Never made a decision to throw 30 million on the existing road. None! We said, then, that we would not wait three years for the road to be completed and that we would go a step further and throw some money into the existing road network, so that we would not have the fatal accidents we have. So I repeat again that you obviously do not know or do not know that all this has been done in the middle of a pandemic when the courts are not working and when the services are working. I, too, have never talked about European bureaucracy. I said that at the moment around the world in general, Mr Katrin, we have many delays in a series of issues and governmental manipulations. It's nothing new about what I'm telling you. Therefore, for the 30 million projects we have a temporary contractor, they go ahead and I hope they will start in the summer. Secondly, I can explain what we did twenty-two months. What responsibilities are you talking about? 'We have broken up' the project, we have said no to the partition, as we said in the election, and we have taken the 'green' light from 'DG REGIO' to achieve the bridge - this is the first success, so in a very short time. We also incorporated the project into the concession - second success - and, as I told you before, this was a terriblely difficult undertaking in negotiation. Imagine the Europeans who in 2013 saw the project joined, then we responded to it, after "salamized" and now we join it back. So let's get into the others' s shoe. As far as the Recovery Fund is concerned, since it is next to us and Mr Skoplakis, I do not know what question he has, to tell you better than I am, it is a tool that came while we did not have it scheduled. To be clear, it does not mean that when a project does not join there it will not be financed. In other words, many projects have been proposed. After all, that is the logic of the negotiation. Here I note that Greek participation in the Recovery Fund with national resources is "zero". So you understand that in fact the European Commission has a very clear agenda for where it wants to channel this money. And we all know that the priority in the projects is 'Digital' and 'Green', i.e. digital works and 'green'. However, a number of very important and road projects have been integrated into the Recovery Fund. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Secretary-General is ringing.]] We are now going to your second question on the other sub-projects, such as 'Olympia - Bytina - Tripoli'. Shall we start with the Lagadi bypass? It is a project that we have carried out on the basis of our approved road construction study. There were environmentalists and we have proceeded with the award of a cost-benefit study, in order to examine, as we did, its financing by the European Investment Bank. The result has been - and this has to be said - that because of high costs - I note that the budget here is EUR 95 million - and low traffic loads, the project is not funding. So what do we do? We are moving forward in completing the geotechnical research needed to change the technical features of the road. We will deliver the study to the Peloponnese Region to examine the possibility of joining the MAI. So we are talking about the other two subsections, Louvre - Tripotamia - Iraia node, which is also a 116 million-dollar project and the crossroad bypass, a 14 million-dollar project. And here the Ministry is doing the studies and will provide the projects for the Region to be included in its own MAGP. Why is that? Because quite rightly your government had done in 2011 a law, the 'Kallikratis' law, and he said that we should finally distinguish what projects are of national importance and what regional importance. [[At this point, the Z' Vice-President of Parliament, Mr. Epostolos ABDELAS takes over]] However, because, Mr Katrin, these studies have been at the Ministry since 2006, the Ministry has not said "please take the studies, we do not help you, they are your projects", but we said we will help you to draw up all the necessary geotechnical studies and all the cost-benefit studies and then sit together with the Region to see how we can and whether we can incorporate these projects and finance them. Therefore, from me at least you will never hear us announcing work for the auction without any guaranteed funding. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u96	Thank you, Minister. Good evening and good week to everyone and me! So let's go to the next fifth, with reference to the question of the cycle of petitions by the Member of the Hercules of the Change Movement, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, to the Minister of Infrastructure and Transport, on the subject: 'Request for diplomas in engineering TEI for the regulation of their professional rights'. Mr Kegeroglu, good evening and 'good week'. You have the floor for two minutes. I know you're consistent, because we have twenty-four questions.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u97	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem of the professional patenting of graduate engineers of TEI is chronic and with various variations, depending on the period. Mr Gavroglou of the previous government, after eliminating technological education, promised to resolve the question of the professional rights of graduates. However, not only did nothing but went a step further in the opposite direction to what was needed. He delivered the procedure with Mr. 4458 to the majority of the TEI and on Election Election Election with a new amendment to No 1. 4610 changed the procedure for professional rights to the most unfavourable. Minister, in our written question we asked questions, but we did not get any clear answers. We are not asking whether only the committee, which we know has not been set up, has been set up, but we want to see whether you are willing today to deal with the problem of the professional patenting of training engineers or whether you are simply continuing with the logic of SYRIZA, that is to say, the logic of Article 257 of the Treaty. 4610. The committees, like you, have responded to us, in any case do not function and cannot function. TEI graduates, of course, from the outset did not see the TEI having a large majority and the representatives of the graduates of the TEI, the STEM, only have a representative. It's a heterogeneous composition. We therefore ask whether you will proceed with a reform of the procedure, namely the definition of professional rights. Our view is that the Ministry of Education, which was thirty-five years in material terms, cannot today declare unauthorized. Why can't he do it? Because it has all the decisions of the General Assembly of the schools, the departments of the institutions, that is to say, as the law said and on that basis the Presidential Decrees should be drawn up, with the appropriate ministries of course. However, this procedure has proved incomplete. He created the Ministry of Education some draft Presidential Decree, which did not go ahead and stay in the air for many years. We, seeing this, based on the plans of the decisions of the TEI schools throughout the country, have drafted a law. In 2018, we tabled a proposal for a law in order to get this procedure done so that it does not involve the bureaucracy of the President-in-Office's decree. I think that a solution must be found today. We cannot stay in committees that are not formed. You must also have cooperation with the TEI, because it is a co-responsible body, but also with the STEM. The graduates themselves cannot have a representative and the representatives of the TEE themselves have a large majority, because you know that there is a contrast between professional and unjustified professional, because there is work for everyone if the areas of work are cleared up. In this context I think that you too can see it, but the Ministry of Education should not take his tail out of the door and say that it is unresponsible for the matter, because he has the decisions of the schools in his hands. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u98	Thank you, Mr. Kegeroglu. The Minister for Infrastructure and Transport will answer Mr Constantine Karamanlis. Here, Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u99	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Kegeroglu, let's put things in order. In 2019, as you quite rightly said, v. There was also the point at issue, Article 257. I would like to give a parentheses and remind you that at that time your party had left the process. Let me remind you - and this to have a story back - that in July 2010, when you were self-powered government, was President of TEH, Mr Spirtz, supported by PASOK. There was an inner-party conflict in PASOK on the issues of professional rights. Then, to his credit, the Deputy Minister of Education Mr Panaretos had tabled a proposal and had prepared presidential decrees on professional rights of twenty-five specialties TEI, which was in the right direction. Nevertheless, then the reactions from all sides were very intense and this story went back. So you're absolutely right. This history of the professional rights of engineers is a story which employs four co-legislative ministries and our country for many years now. So let's go see where we are now. Article 257 speaks of the co-responsibility of four ministries - this has not changed, Mr Kegeroglu - and of education and development and the environment and infrastructure. Responsibilities apply only to the issue of the Presidential Decree on the Ministry of Infrastructure. I say that, so that we can have the data clearly. What have we proposed and what happens? The proposal speaks of a nine-member committee in which, apart from the representatives of these four co-legislators, we will have a representative from the TEI, a representative from the Directorate-General for Coordination, a representative from the Competition Committee and representatives from both the national Polytechnics and the Society for Engineering of Technology. So this is where everyone is involved. This nine-member committee will therefore be assisted in its work by a three-member committee per speciality, which will also be members of the Association of Technology Engineering. I do not think, therefore, that we can disagree on this procedure, because it is a process that brings to the table - for the first time, I would say - all the parties involved, of course, with delays because of the pandemic, because some bodies are not consistent with the timetables, but these committees will come together. We also have in committee, to make sure that things are balanced, and a representative of the Legal Council of State. [[At this point, the closing bell of the speaking time of the Minister is ringing.]] I think, therefore, that in your question you are somehow letting it be made clear - and I shall come back to my dentistry - that this committee is a heterogeneous body in favour of the TEU. I would say that this is not the case on the basis of what I mentioned to you and with the composition of all these members. That committee would be degraded if not all of the people I mentioned before were involved. I would also like to make a comment here. Your proposal for a law of 2018 - and read it - has nothing to do with what Mr Panaretos said in 2010. You, and with the proposal for a law that you have made, are trying to pete - if I may say so kindly - the ears of all. So we find no solution, because in this process of professional rights we must make a very clear negotiation between the engineers of the Polytechnic and the engineers of the old TEIs, sit down and resolve this issue. To go to every political party, depending on where this time is sitting in Parliament and trying to pete their ears and I do not think it helps the process. I can tell you, in fact, that your proposal for a law has little to do with what you, as PASOK in 2010, tried to do and was in the right direction.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u100	Thank you, Minister. Here, Mr Kegeroglu, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u101	Minister, you obviously did not study the decisions of the TEI Schools, nor the proposal for a law or draft Presidential Decree. Titles you may have seen, suggestions, and opinions you may have heard, but that is not the case. In any case, do you agree with the content of the draft Presidential Decrees 2011, in order to enter as a proposal for a law and vote?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u102	Well, you...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u103	So it is the question of your own policy, Mr Karamanlis. You fall in love with me and I hear the answer from you, or I must hear the answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u104	You tell me that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u105	If you want me to give you answers, I can, but you will come to another process to discuss. The procedure in question provides for the government to answer, doesn't it? The first question is: In the nine, SYRIZA anticipated one of the TEIs. Do you still have the same view? Whether Spirji has changed and the Stasinus who is of the New Democracy has gone does not change things in relation to my perception. I say: There is room for professional activity, obviously for diplomats in polytechnics. After all, I have two sons who are a diplomat, and the other one will be, I hope, and a lot of relatives will take it. It's not the problem there. We're not petting anyone. We're saying there's thousands of T.I. graduates and they should have a piece of paper from this state that put them in and made them say what they're doing. Do you agree to that? We agree. We also agree that the delay is of all governments, with a difference in efforts. And it's very important who tried and where he tripped. So today, do you agree with the nine-member committee that has a TEI representative? Teacher from TEI doesn't exist. There is no provision for the abolition of schools. There is no representative of the respective departments of the TEI because the schools have been abolished. It is only provided for universities and polytechnics. Representatives of the TEI and one of the EUTEM are also provided for, and the Ministries are also provided for. You understand that the composition is completely heterogeneous. Do at least equal enough to do some work. That's not how it works. They're blocking her. Don't tell me that one TEI spokesman is blocking her! A TEI spokesman doesn't block it! We are, however, proposing that you look at this issue of the political perception with which we have to move today to resolve this issue, if you consider, as we say, that it has failed 257 of Mr Gavroglou's law and failed because two years and something has not worked since the first regulation. It has therefore de facto failed. Shall we sit down and see with your own law plan? Let's see. Should the Ministry of Education withdraw from its drawers the decisions of the schools and all the procedure that has been carried out at the Ministry of Education and move forward? But don't tell me Mr. Gabroglou does well and he said that all sides are on the same table and that the composition of the committee is not unequal. Is it possible to support this? What did you think at the time that he was a isomer? We left and said that it was not balanced, and that is why we did not participate in the voting procedure for the amendment. That was an amendment. We didn't participate. What did you think? That it was okay, all honey milk? It proved - even so to believe then by showing confidence in the government - that it is a failure. We invite you to rethink this solution that the government intended at the time. We have confidence if you review it and not just stay in the TEI's views, but we need to see actions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u106	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes to answer Mr Kegeroglu.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u107	I will disagree with you from now on, Mr Kegeroglu, and I have told you. Is the committee's composition not heterosexual, because how many people do you want to be involved on each side? One participates from TEI, one from each Ministry, one from the Competition Committee, one from the Law Council of the State and one from the Association of Engineers which is the former TEI. So everyone's involved. That's a reality. We, as the New Democracy, had voted 'the present', but we said that we agreed in principle with the provisions of the article. We believe that this committee should finally be convened before we condemn this law, this particular article and see whether all sides can sit on a table, which unfortunately we have not managed to do. No government has managed to put all the stakeholders on the table, sit down and find a solution. Is it easy? Oh, no. But the solution - because this legal formalism that exists in this country now has to end - is not every three or a little to legislate. We can't find solutions by legislating all the time. All stakeholders - and that is what we are doing now - need to sit down so that a solution can be found. Article 257 therefore provides for the setting-up of a special committee. The work of this committee will be assisted by three committees per specialty. So there is no question here whether he is heterogeneous or not. I understand your insinuation and I hear it with care. What does Mr. Kegeroglu say? Because he's a great experienced politician. It says that because the representatives of the ministries are usually the engineers of the Polytechnic there there is a matter. We hear that and we will consider it. In all the committees, then, representatives of technological education will be involved and we want to hope that everyone sits on the table and we need to consider finding a solution. I would also say to you, Mr Kegeroglou, that we insisted that there should be a participation of representatives from both the Competition Committee and the Legal Council of the State in order to create a degree of importance in the work of the committee and to meet all the standards of legality and objectivity. So let the committee do its job. And when we say committee, we mean, let's leave the process...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u108	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u109	Mr. Kegeroglu, I'm sorry, but I told Mr. Catarini before. You act like you came here yesterday. You realize that after a pandemic...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u110	..................................................................................................................................................................... (Not heard)
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u111	Until a week ago, we couldn't sit over six people in an office.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u112	It's been two years, isn't it?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u113	What two years? We've got a coronary one year. But are we serious? A problem that hasn't been solved for 15 years, do we want to solve with a magic wand? The committees should be set up. The committees are set up and we'll sit down. So, a little patience. I understand that at the moment, being in the chairs of the opposition, you have a tendency to vote. I'm sorry to say that.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u114	The question is when it will be formed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u115	Mr. Kegeroglu, please. He didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u116	I didn't interrupt you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u117	You're right, Minister. Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u118	Where's the decision to set up?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u119	Your attitude confirms your voting spirit.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u120	All right, now!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u121	Finish, Minister.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u122	Where's the decision to set up? That's what I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u123	But there are decisions. Right now, the decisions are going to come and we'll invite all the actors to sit...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u124	It's just a simple question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u125	These theatrical theatrics are not to exist.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u126	Please, Minister. Complete your answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u127	Not to me!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u128	Your proposal for a law in 2018 contrasted fully with what your government said in 2010.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u129	When will the committee be formed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u130	Mr. Kegeroglu, please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u131	It's a simple question.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u132	Thank you very much, Mr President. That is not how dialogue is going to take place. I'm sorry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u133	Be well, Minister. Thank you. Have a good day to both of you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u134	It's a simple question. When will the committee be formed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u135	Mr. Kegeroglu, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u136	It is not debated because of the Member's intrusion or by number...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u137	You don't talk and you're not ashamed?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u138	Please!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u139	Please, Mr President!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u140	Please, Mr. Kegeroglu!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u141	Who's gonna call me theater and make no observation!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u142	I told him. I said to finish. He said "theatricalisms". He did not say 'theatre' to you. Please. It is not debated because of a blockade by the Member or by 749/10.5.2021 that Member Rodopi of the Movement of Change Ilhan Ahmet to the Minister of Health on the subject: "Absence of vaccination centres in the Municipality of Arrianes in the Regional Unit of Rhodope" and, secondly, the question by No 4512/24-2-2021 by MP Heraklion of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr Charalambos (Hari) Mamoulakis to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "What are the conditions for the privatisation of the former US base in Gurnas Heraklion Crete". We continue with the first with number 726/10-5-2021 topical question by MP I of the Republic of Nea Efstratios (Stratou) Simopoulou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: “Payment of staff of detention stores”. Mr. Simopoulos, good evening, good week. You have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u143	Mr President, thank you very much. Minister, you are well aware that the external guards and prison penitentiaries are operating under very difficult conditions, which have been even worse than the conditions we are all experiencing because of the pandemic. They are actually doing a job, because they are in constant contact with prisoners, with people who can be of ordinary criminal law, with murderers, people who, at the time they leave their work, take all this weight of daily contact with this category of criminal prisoners. They must therefore have a particular working environment, an environment which will provide them with calm and, above all, a calm economic environment. The Greek state over the years, for example, since 2016, does not pay them the prizes and the exceptions. And what I ask, and I ask, is what you intend to do so that this timeless injustice ceases to exist. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u144	Thank you very much, Mr Simopoulos. The Deputy Minister of Finance will answer Mr. Theodoros Skakakis. Good evening, good week. You have three minutes for your protology.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u145	Let me begin, Mr Simopole, by saying that these people do a difficult job, a job that was done during the pandemic, as in several services, so there, in addition to everything else, they had to take care of health issues, health protocols, and, of course, prisons remain, penitentiaries, whether there is pandemic or not, they have the people you said in and must be kept properly guarded. I must also say that I have already held a meeting with the trade unionists in this area. I see a trade union representation today which is sound and reasonable. As far as employment is concerned, we in the Ministry of Finance have the main task of providing credits. Last year, if I remember correctly, we had a budget of 10 million. These were not absorbed for several reasons. This year we have 9 million. And a moment ago, on the occasion of your question, I signed about 1.5 million more so that they could manage the repayments, following a request from the General Secretariat of Criminal Policy. And I believe that they will be able to meet the needs sufficiently, on the basis of these appropriations.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u146	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Simopole, you have three minutes too, although he covered you from what I understand. Sign it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u147	Obviously, Mr President. On behalf of the penitentiaries and the external guards, but also those who operate in prison, I should like to thank you very much. And to note, as I have noted in a previous reply from Deputy Minister Giannis Economou, that there is always a way for government officials through discussion, from a data analysis, but with a very rapid reaction to solve problems and problems which often do not have as a basis economic demands, are problems that concern the daily lives of thousands of citizens, many of whom are also of low economic incomes. So I would like to thank you once again, stressing that a great request also from the external prison guards, which must be resolved and which is not your concern, is their hospitality in the military hospitals. It's something I'm constantly bringing back. It's mostly about the Ministry of National Defence. Nowadays, military hospitals can and are even hospitalized and are likely to be hospitalized by officials from the National Print Office. These people cannot, therefore, be hospitalised, who are basically armed and who keep legality completely, if you like, by safeguarding all of us through the guarding of prisons. I said many times the word'safety', if you will excuse me, Mr President. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u148	Be well. You have the floor, Mr. Dog.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u149	I simply note that the management of public finances is not the object of which we take into account criteria individually or personally. We have the public interest in our minds. And especially on the issue of prisons, where in previous years a part of crime has occurred, it is very important that people can do their job properly. More generally, in recent years, civil servants and civil servants, due to everything that happened during the memorandum period, have been treated in a way that has often been sceptical from society more widely. I believe that this period, with the help of the pandemic, has passed. It has been proved and we have lived through it in full practice in the past one year that we have been living on this adventure that we have many and competent people in the public sector who have worked with very high ambition and continue and work and can yield far more than the wider Greek society believes, since we let them do the work for which they have been hired and there are appropriate motives and controls from our side as a state that ensures it. I think that in the next few years we can work much better in the public and private sectors and achieve much more at different levels, including the penitentiary institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u150	Thank you, Minister. Have a good day to both of you. Let's go to the third with number 4358/19-2-2021 question of the petitions and questions by the MP Rhodope of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance Mr. Dimitrios (Takis) Haritou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Confidence - Delete the housing loans of the repatriated expatriates of Thrace". Mr. Haritou, good evening, good week, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u151	Thank you very much, Mr President. I would like you, Minister, to pass on to the Government that operators and tourist businesses in the region are rebellious after the government's surprise decision to close entry to the country through the Nyfan border station in Rhodope, only one day after the opening of tourism. If this decision is not withdrawn immediately, the damage will be heavy to the local economy. I come to the question, Mr President. For repatriated expatriates who came home with the exhortations of the Greek state, a long-term housing restoration program was implemented with a view to their smooth integration into the economic and social activity of the country. To this end, loans of up to EUR 60,000 were granted for the purchase of housing with the guarantee of the Greek State and with a subsidised interest rate of up to 100% in Thrace. Unfortunately, the major economic problems they have faced, problems that have been intensified in the decades of the Memorandum of Crisis, have led the majority of borrowers not only to inability to repay the loans but are at risk of losing their homes which are much less than the sums they have then borrowed to buy them. Lately, Mr Secretary-General, in the midst of the pandemic and the economic crisis, the pressures from the banking system have sharply increased at the expense of borrowers. Their outstanding debts shall be transferred directly to the competent DUs. The threats that forced collection and confiscation measures will be imposed on them are not just words. They have already proceeded with seizures of common accounts of borrowers with other beneficiaries. In fact, they demand that any debtor who comes in and asks that the instalments be repaid in the specific form of the loan with the guarantee of the Greek State. You will agree that this is not the luck and the treatment that our recurring relatives, who returned home and wanted to root in our country and that the Greek state must put an end to the agony and fears of our relatives. So I ask you, what do you intend to do so that the most of the debts of housing, repatriated people and the rest of the population are renegotiated in favourable terms so that they can be repaid? Will you include the three hundred and seventy-seven-six remaining loans with FEK from 2004 to the Housing Rehabilitation Program of our repatriated relatives? Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u152	Thank you. The Deputy Minister of Finance, George Zavvos, will answer. Mr. Secretary, good evening, good week. You have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u153	Thank you, Mr President. Ladies and gentlemen, I would like to say that the government is well aware of the problems of our repatriated relatives, particularly Thrace. It attaches particular importance and as you know it does everything possible for its complete restoration. In particular, however, you are aware of the question you are asking, that the loans which have been made with the guarantee of the Greek State - and I am talking about all loans, that is to say, the loans of the repatriated Greeks - can also be regulated in accordance with the existing institutional framework. In particular, these cases also concern Article 103 of Law 4549/2018 and Ministerial Decision 2/2018 which explicitly stipulate that credit institutions and borrowers may regulate such loans without the intervention of the Greek State and in accordance with the usual banking criteria and the instructions and guidelines that we have discussed in detail. Loans may also be derecognised under these arrangements. It is worth pointing out that according to the Union institutional framework, namely the European Insolvency and Guidelines of the European Central Bank, debt settlement should take into account the specific parameters of the debtor. And what are these parameters? It is as we know its ability to repay, i.e. income and reasonable living costs, as well as its real or commercial value. It is worth pointing out again that the basic parameter for carrying out a debt settlement is the actual financial weakness of the debtor and therefore also of his obligors and guarantors, but it must be demonstrated by specific evidence. In view of the above, it is understood that there cannot be a horizontal adjustment of the debts for a group of debtors, based on such characteristics as the geographical area, which, at the same time, do not take into account the actual economic situation of each debtor, which, as we said, must be taken into account. For this purpose, any debtor separately and if he has financial weakness should carry out a debt settlement procedure, through which he should demonstrate his financial weakness and obtain an appropriate adjustment of the debt corresponding to the level of his inability. Mr President, I would also like to refer to Ministerial Decision 2/18649/0025-15-20. It was redefined and replaced by the previously written procedure for attesting and deleting debts guaranteed by the Greek State, turning it into an electronic one, thus making it an important facility. Furthermore, we should be aware that this decision was adopted in the context of the commitments of the Action Plan, which constituted a prerequisite for its action as from 18 January 2018, a memorandum of understanding with the institutions, concluded at that time by the Government to improve the management of State guarantees and to more quickly process the requests for a discount. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u154	Thank you, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Haritou, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u155	Mr. Undersecretary, I listened very carefully. If I understood well about you, there is no problem, as you have described, that the vast majority are unable to repay the loans and are in a regime, in a climate of blackmail and pressure from the banking system. It's all going well for you. I'm amazed, Minister. I expect there to be specific commitments. Not only me, but those who watch us with interest and waited for answers to this crucial issue about their lives. They're struggling for whether or not to lose their homes. And you, like there's no problem, like you don't know what's actually happening with the banking system. Who are you addressing? Who are you with, Mr. Undersecretary? That's the huge question I'm asking you. To say that there is no problem, that there is an institutional framework, and that everything is going on properly, I think it is out of the question. Let me remind you that in the institutional context by the amended Katseli law under the SYRIZA government, there was indeed the possibility of a move in the face of the problem. Why? Because they could make adjustments to the guaranteed debts, they could repay instalments of the loan and, of course, there could be favourable arrangements with high-rate reductions. You know, Undersecretary, who torpedoed it? The banking system! He did not inform, risked to the borrowers, saying that their applications would be rejected, that they would lose their homes only to refinance loans at higher interest rates, so that the loans of the borrowers would rise. This is the reality that borrowers are not able to face up to. I say this, Mr President, because I think that you need to rethink this matter and give a solution. It employs almost forty thousand throughout Greece, about eight thousand in the region of Thrace, and it is urgent to provide a solution. Mr. Undersecretary, there are two other small issues. The state has not been paying the rents for two and a half years in houses renting two hundred thousand repatriated families. The owners are right to initiate proceedings, run legal proceedings and claim rents, blackmail the repatriated tenants. The ministerial decision came out of the previous Minister of Interior, lost between the Ministry of Interior and your Ministry. You didn't sign it. It's coming back. Give us a solution. Sign the ministerial decision to put an end to the pressures that the owners of the houses accept. Finally, fourteen families, Mr. Undersecretary, are staying in the temporary settlement of retired people in the Sapes. The decentralized administration leads them to eviction. Intervention so that there is a viable and acceptable solution for the families of these people so that they can actually live in this place. The state took the initiative and invited them. They're here. They want to root in here and are struggling to pay back their loans and obligations in society.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u156	Thank you very much. Mr. Secretary, you have three minutes at your disposal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u157	Thank you. I would like to say to the honourable Member that we are obviously aware of the problems but also of this particular problem. There's a strife for debtors to pay. And in this case, as I have explained to you, I think quite thoroughly, there is the Union framework, there is the national framework. There are guidelines for the Bank of Greece. All of these together enable us to have specific personalised arrangements for borrowers who can extract exactly all the elements they need, that is to prove every time, as the law provides, what the financial situation is and what the assets situation is and where the solution is appropriate. I would also like to say that, in this context, we should not ignore the fact that important efforts have been made on the part of banks that have made extensive suspension of loans from Greek households and businesses. At least with the official information we have had for the period January to November 2020, suspensions were given to some four hundred thousand businesses and individuals totalling EUR 30 billion. It is worth saying that these suspensions have been made in addition to the business, housing, personal loans that the banks have advanced lately and which account for at least EUR 15 billion. At the same time, through the arrangements or suspensions, the Greek banking system has facilitated, according to the data it has given us, borrowers for sums amounting to EUR 45 billion. In addition, and because tackling overcompensation is, as you know, one of the main objectives of the Ministry of Finance - we have extensively presented the measures we have taken - the government has brought in the new institutional framework for regulating bankruptcy debts of natural and legal persons and at the same time exempting them from debts. Therefore, this new framework for the insolvency of natural and legal persons overall governs the private debt settlement to the State, whether they relate to the AIA, either to the ETA, or to the OTA, as well as to banks and other private individuals. I would like to say that there is a wide range of measures that have been adopted throughout this crisis by the government but at the same time by banks, so that it can be an important impediment to the dystocia faced by our fellow citizens. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u158	Thank you, Minister, for keeping time. It would be a good thing if we kept the time because we've already gotten away. Questions in total are twenty-four and we're eleven. The fifth will be discussed under No 742/10-5-2021 topical question by the SYRIZA MP - Progressive Alliance Mr Marios Katsis to the Minister for Digital Governance, on "Reimbursements to DIGEA because of a non-transfer to DVB - T2 technology" Mr. Katsy, you've got two minutes for your point of view.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u159	Mr President, good evening. Minister, I called you today before the National Representation to discuss an extremely serious and important issue in my opinion. It relates to the performance process of digital dividend II. What's digital dividend II? It is an international obligation of the country, a European obligation to develop the 5G networks. What was it supposed to be? To understand us, and the people watching us. Frequency bands that occupy free channels, that is to say, the pan-Hellenic what we all know and have on our televisions, but also the regional channels, should leave the frequency and spectrum around the 700 MHz band, go a little further, so that this belt can be released and 5G developed. In the new spectrum, the existing technology that emits these channels, the DVB-T technology, fits less broadcasting channels. This transition to lower frequencies across the European Union is combined with the transition to the new technology model, to the new encoding of DVB - T2. This has happened in all the countries of the European Union not only in the great strong but even in countries that have a lower standard of living than Greece, such as Albania, Czechoslovakia, Armenia and your favorite Estonia. All of them have been to DVB - T2. It is not just that by your own government, legislative decision refers to the call for this transition. At the same time we have from this setback, in my opinion, a low brand quality as well as the rounding of regional channels in a narrower range making their bad signal even worse. That's not enough. The fact that the Digea network provider - let us not forget that it is the consortium of large private channels - because of the non-transfer to T2 in the new technology - because it is in a lesser range with a decision by your Government - is being compensated for over 2 million euros for this reason. In other words, the choice of no transition to your own political choice. The law of SYRIZA, n. 4339 for television licences were required from 1.1.2022, that is, in a few months' time since the exclusive transmission of the signal to high quality, the best quality that can be achieved. Exclusively. Throughout this time period there was simulcast. I mean, High Definition and Standard Definition. But you, with an amendment to the "Investing in Greece and other provisions" Act by the Ministry of Development, exempted them from the obligation to invest which they had to do for after 2022. As one understands, the evil is triple because of this decision. Firstly, a bad signal that citizens enjoy. Secondly, costs for the public interest after Digea is compensated by the National Telecommunications and Post Commission. The taxpayers pay for it. Third, they don't fit the regional channels. For this triple evil, then, I come to ask you directly and get a clear answer. Are you planning to apply and go to DVB - T2 technology? If so, when? If not, why? I'm coming back. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u160	Thank you very much, Mr. Katsey. The Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis. Mr. Pierracakis, good evening, and good week. You have three minutes to answer Mr. Katsi.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u161	Thank you. Here we have a number of technical issues that I would like to describe in order to try to show how they are being bottled and on what criteria we have made of the decisions we have made today. The first issue is about the 5G, as you said. It's 700 MHz. It's one of the 5G frequencies. This frequency across Europe is transferred below by the so-called digital dividend II. We made a 5G auction that was completed at the end of 20. The second issue concerns the quality of the signal, whether it is High or if it is Standard. The third issue is codification. That's all to a certain extent that's what's going on between them. Encoding is about how many channels fit in so that we can see. Based on the existing licenses, the existing coding, the T coding, fits these channels. In order to be able to show both High Definition but not throughout the country. Indeed, there is one issue in 8% of the country. 92% of the country can be codified and since there is the existing policy in relation to the channels to show High Definition. Eight percent you can't. These are some border areas, in the North Ionian Sea, in the North Aegean, in the Dodecanese, where the multipliers are located on the border with the corresponding mark from other countries. So here, in fact, we need to move forward. But the transition is not an end in itself. What do I mean? While we were pressing the button, as we say, at the time we are discussing, all the citizens of the country should at the same time have to say just that they have no television that is modern, go and buy a decoder so that they can see this new T2 codification. To tell the citizens to do that 8% would win. Why? 'Cause 8% would go from standard to high. At 92%, however, we should go and charge them a cost without being able to give them an additional service. So, there we said, given that televisions are sold every year, new TVs, 99% of these TVs have this codification, and I see that in your question you put the second codification of HEVC, which is an alternative we're looking at, we're waiting in '21 and '22 to sell another half and a million televisions. That's all gonna be T2. How many households do we have in Greece? We have four million-thirty-four thousand ELSTAT-based households, 30% of these households have a TV, the rest have more, about eight million TVs. In other words, we are earning time, so that we do not trouble the citizens when the transition is made to legislation. [[At this point, the closing bell of the Secretary-General's speaking time is ringing.]] Now you're asking me the question about the timetable. On the one hand, I think you want a year and a half since you decide - and I close with that, Mr President - to inform the public. This is an institutional obligation, and it was then when the first transition took place, we remember the 'Click' family in the transition from the television spots. Again, it takes a year and a half to do this, and we want a year to find the exact figures and ERT to do the investments in question. I think that in the next six months this will have been over two years. In other words, in two years' time, I think that this transition can actually be completed.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u162	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Katsi, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u163	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, I came to tell you the truth. And I came read because I searched all the ministerial decisions, I saw what has been taken and I expected the truth from your answer to be a little more bold, a little more decisive. I didn't see that. You know, in order to make a digital transition, it is not just to make a digital transition in cases where everyone says: 'bravo and we do it well', it is to do in difficult cases, over and above the need for political will and interest conflict. And I saw that in your first speech you have not commented at all on the fact of compensation. I would like to refer to this, since you first allow me to comment on the argument you brought to the Chamber in order to justify the delay of these years that you have been in the government, not only personally, because it is also the responsibility of the General Secretariat of Information and Mr Pechas. The argument, Mr Minister, is a little hypocritical. Why? Because it makes sense to use in 2016 when it was just on digital television at the time and all citizens had purchased decoders to have digital signals. However, since then, a lot of water has flowed into the groove. Only last year can I tell you in 2020 that too many thousands of televisions have been sold, 50% of which is quality 4K, not just high-definition, it is 4K. So I think that if you took the pain really, that you really wanted to get rid of or rather avoid imposing a household that cannot afford to raise the cost of a decoder - which is the truth of EUR 15, which is a small cost - you could as a ministry, as you did, for example, in digital care and you gave the tablets. In other words, you could take out a voucher for households who do not even have the opportunity to give these 15 euros for a decoder, which I think is very few of the households now, because everyone has been on new TVs, to take over from the Ministry. So it is hypocritical that argument on this simple reason, because it is important not only to do so, but when it is to do so. The Ministerial Decision, which you have taken on the compensation, says this and I will table it in the Minutes: "In the event that, before the end of the transitional period, the transition to a technical standard DVB - T2 in these award areas no longer exists an obligation of the Greek State on the relevant financial compensation of the provider for these channels". And since the compensation of EUR 2 million is until 2023 if this two-year period that you say on the substance has reached “23 and after “23 don’t have to make money back. So the mermaid, for example, has to save the State's damage and the ERT compensation by Greek taxpayers to DIGEA. So it's about something that's too knotty. First of all, I question the fact, because the frequency map isn't 8%. We have seen extra areas in the situation so far, for example, here that apart from the Dodecanese, Samos, the Cyclades have a problem, even Laconia. So, so we see that so far, because the process is not over, until September next is the transition, to have more than 8% of what you had informed the National Representation when you passed this law. You know, it's not just enough to say it orally, you'll have to undo it. In other words, in the legislation you have passed, you have changed and added ‘unless proven technically it is not technically possible to broadcast in high resolution, in which case the above programme can only be transmitted to formal resolution by awarding areas’ and add ‘unless this is technically possible, the above programme can be transmitted to formal resolution by awarding areas’. So it's a little unclear whether he's being forced or allowed to play high definition, but with DVB-T codification, which means that he's still...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u164	Finish it, please.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u165	I shall conclude, Mr President. Well, regionals go aside anyway, i.e. they're already cramped with this codification, it's too bad a brand quality and it also creates two categories of speeds, there's inequality here, but it's not clear whether all citizens will enjoy a high-definition brand for all the channels in the country, it's not clear. So I think you should change the legislation. I conclude by saying that, Minister, I think that the government has shown so far that I do not remember the Petts' lists and the compensation of canalarchs, that I do not remember the 2020 dose that was given for both a programme and infrastructure, and that when these infrastructures are needed to invest the canals to emit a high definition mark and all citizens enjoy a high signal, then you also exempt them from this obligation and put the National Telecommunications and Post Committee to compensate them on top. I think it is not appropriate for us to go to the digital age and not to pass the country on to the new model, to new codification, so that these problems can be solved. Hurry, then, the mermaid and for reasons has and is not your ally time. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Marios Katsis, presents for the minutes the above-mentioned documents, which are in the archives of the Secretariat Department of the Directorate for Stenography and Practice of the Parliament.]] Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u166	Thank you, too. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u167	Well, because here the numbers and data play a role, I obviously have asked DIGEA and ERT for official information, and there are personal investigations in this regard, but given that we have eight million approximate television sets in Greece for these four million households, the first approach that I have been given with today's figures on how many TVs that support the new form of codification are three and a half million, that is, three and a half million at eight million today. Now, of course, if we win this year and a half ahead, as I described before, it will in fact have been added to them another and a half million, so it reduces the suffering of the citizens. The cost of these decoders may be small, but in any case when you ask people to do something, since the citizen will be charged with this cost, which was the model and the last time, the citizen has to get an additional service from it. So, in this sense, the visa and this is what we were sitting on and I was, let's agree that we disagree, we thought that citizens should not be imposed on them for these reasons and that we should go to a more smooth, in a more smooth transition schedule. But the transition will take place. The transition will take place in the timetable I described before. ERT should make the investments in question. I had mentioned the last time we had discussed it, that ERT had not done any energy when we discussed it and was less than a year and a half before where the law had to be changed, so it had not even been observed that the part relating to the early warning of the public had not been kept. So within two years, we're going to make the transition. What is still to be decided is whether T2 will be or whether HEVC will be the alternative. But this is a debate I would say purely technical. In essence, the transition is ahead of the pillars in a way that will minimise the suffering of the citizens.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u168	Thank you very much, Minister. That's the time I want. We continue with the sixth question under No 724/10-5-2021 of a second question by MP B1' North Athens of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Loverdos to the Minister of Digital Governance, on "The digital illiteracy today equals "digital disability" and the effort to reduce it". Mr. Loverdo, good evening, good week, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u169	Good evening, Mr President, ladies and gentlemen. Before I say two introductory phrases, in my opinion, about the question that I have tabled to Mr Pierrakakis, Mr President, I should like to address you and to say to you that from now on at every Parliament meeting in which I participate and take the floor I shall make a reference and appeal to the Minister of Justice, Mr Tsiaras, to do what is going through his hand and of course, it is possible to speed up the investigation procedures for the murder of Sfi Valyrakis. We are concerned about this. He has been former Minister for many years. It is a real pity that his people are suffering enormous suffering because of the fact that some volunteers want to bury this story. We are asking for light on every aspect of this case.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u170	I think he's on his way, because I'm constantly reading that there are new evidence coming up.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u171	I do not think there is any objection from any sensible and serious person on this matter. Yes, I do! Mr. Minister, Mr. Pierakakis, the digital transformation of the Greek state and our daily transactions, beyond the state services, between us, who are conducted digitally, are a development undeniable and I stress that you have contributed. You believe that and I would be the last person to ask for another opinion on the work you are producing. I note that your lack of skills led you to draw up a programme called "Digital Academy of Citizens", where every citizen with digital difficulties can find the advice he needs and open the paths that he needs for his transactions. That's right. But we also have to think about it as opposition and you as government. I thought about it and that's why I'm taking this initiative. I was informed by the Mayor of St. Varvaras, Mr. Lampro Michos, in whose municipality the phenomenon of digital disability is often identified, that there are people who cannot be "done" the goods we are the rest of us. The reasons are basically two. Another doesn't have a computer or smart phone so he can make his transactions and another who may not have the appropriate skills. Mr President, in many teleconferences in Athens, but also in the region, many people are asking for their help so that they can make simple moves at any teleconferencing conference. We must all recognise the problem that constitutes this digital disability, understand it and form digital aid policies to these citizens. They're not a few, there's a lot of them. And the proposal that I put forward to you and I think you will be the last to understand it is to be shaped with funding from the NRP - because the action is totally eligible - a body of digital assistance instructors from young people who are provoking these digital services to people who are relatively helpless. These in my prototype, in my denology, I'll add some more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u172	The Minister of Digital Governance will answer Mr. Kyriakos Pierracakis. Mr. Pierracakis, you know the process. You have three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u173	Thank you, Mr President. I'm starting at the end. I fully agree with your proposal, I find it extremely interesting. I think the approach is right. It is something that we need to look at in greater depth, not just how we go to skill centres, but at home too. I fully agree with your approach. Not only in the skill centers we have designed on the basis of our strategy, but also at home, as you say. I'm gonna go back and end up at the end. Because skills come in the last piece, in the use of services. What are we trying to do to get there? The first is a rule set by programmers, planning as simple as you can your services. That's what we're trying to do to the maximum extent. We say abroad often that the Ministry should not be called "Digital Governance". There is a term in English'service design','service design'. That's what we're trying to do. If you compare gov.gr - it is a service of responsible statement - and put it next to a service five, three or a few years ago, you will see another aesthetic, another ease of use. That is the first thing we have to do. The second one to do is, while building a digital service, to create an easy physical service necessarily for those who, as you say, do not have digital skills. Example of vaccination. That was the reasoning in the vaccination planning service. On the one hand we created a digital system, the emvolio.gov.gr, and the intangible prescribing we used. On the other hand, we had the pharmacies and the JEPs for those who do not have digital skills. After you do all this, however, your question comes: How can I go targeted to the population and give them skills so that they can be better involved in this process at another level? On another level, why? Because there are the most vulnerable groups that need to learn targeted skills, to participate in all of this. There are other groups of people who want more targeted services. And so we have made a series of projects that are found in the Digital Transformation Bible and in the proposals to the Recovery Fund. Skills also concern us as a Ministry, as well as the Ministry of Labour and the Ministry of Education and other ministries. We are trying to design them in the best possible way, given that here there is an experience that has been mixed in previous years. If you see, not only in Greece, what happened in the European Union as a whole, you will see that the targeted skills programmes are not always of the quality that all of us would like. Very often the private sector, the companies, are drawing up and planning much better programs than they are planning targeted, if you want, the state machines of this type of digital program. We intend to develop a multitude of such things. I'm going to go back to dentistry on this. But, emphasising the dimension you have put, the dimension of home aid, I say that this is something which, on the basis of your question, will be considered in the design of these programmes to be included.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u174	Thank you very much, Minister. Mr. Loverdo, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u175	My question gave you the opportunity to report on your ministry's general policies on the subject. I'm so glad you're responding so positively. I have always said, Mr Pierracakis, that when the government accepts an opposition's recommendation, but when the opposition accepts a government's suggestion, the only winner is the people, the citizens who care about each particular issue at a time. Politics wins in the field of logic, it does not lose when such understandings exist. Here we must help, here we must support those citizens who have too many problems with lack of skills, familiarity with technology and refusal often to familiarize themselves with technology. Some, even active citizens in professions, judges, who have happened to hear it in some way and in a form - how do I say it? - not bragged, but selfish, that is to say, they find it positive. We, however, are interested in the citizen who needs help and is not ashamed to ask for it. Otherwise, you can't interfere. The institutions of the Greek state respond. How will the services be invited? They'll be invited through a simple phone call. This is the simplest form of action, which also creates the beginning of the process. Who will be addressed to? You'll see that and we'll see it together if you want. I put the thought to a group of my partners involved in technology and did a study. This study, of course, is not a study such as that which a university can provide or a structure of a ministry familiar with issues. But, in any case, they are private sector people who are very experts in the area, who immediately understood that we need to respond. We had its standard of "Help to Home" that fully succeeded - I'm very glad you used the term - and we added the digital "Help to Home". There are issues that we need to look at in relation to rationalising this action and we are at the Ministry's disposal, if such an effort is started, to respond and to help by contributing our views. The benefit will be too great. I, Mr President, am not standing by the citizen who refuses to speak because he thinks it, as I have said before, and rightly so, also in a form of selfishness. I am standing with the citizen who listens to the information on television and cannot participate because he really has a disability. It's a little heavy, but it's a reality if it doesn't have the ability, it doesn't have the skill. I mentioned the terms. I wish we could do that. I wish we could proceed with the creation of this body of digital living supporters - so we think about it - and we are at your disposal. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u176	Let me repeat that the 'digital disability' has it in introductory form so that no one can be misunderstood. Because the word is heavy.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u177	Maybe he doesn't want to hear it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u178	Yeah, that's what I'm saying. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u179	I would add to what you have said the following. Overall in the Ministry, undertaking the country's entire digital strategy, I would say that this is the sector that has the greatest challenges, namely digital skills. New platforms, new solutions, new facilities are constantly being produced in other sectors. Here's the initiative we've taken so far, if you want, not the design, is what the Digital Academy of Citizens mentioned where the idea was simple over there. We have gathered content from universities either from private companies or from other bodies. We did an organization and a diligence of this content. We made a self-diagnostic test where everyone can tell themselves what they want to know. Someone might want to learn something very simple, to use a search engine, someone else something deeper, more interesting a programming language, the Python language, for example, from there on it becomes an distribution. This, of course, is if you want very simply a first step. There needs to be a huge intervention in the field of skills. Because one of them concerns the most vulnerable groups, those who want to exclude from these programmes, there are many other projects that are on board. Military service is such a program, we have mentioned it together with the Minister of National Defence how during military service one can take certified skills. It's the State. They're small and medium-sized enterprises. So for all this, there has been a concern which will certainly benefit from the funds available from the Recovery Fund. Especially for vulnerable groups, however, I think that there is this value of the dimension to go home. That was the reaction of the Ministry's services on the occasion of your question where we had a debate. Some have approached it as an extension of the “Help at Home” programme, others as an incomplete program with the same features. In any case, we can learn. We're completely open to your team's feedback. I would say in total to every good idea because there is not much luxury to stay back. We have to run too fast. This is an area in which the world actually wins, and the people win with every action they do. It's another loose end that the time has made it necessary and we have to run forward.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u180	Thank you very much, Minister. You should come back again. Your time is digital. Have a good day to both of you. There is no consultation on the fourth question of 731/10-5-2021 of the first cycle of the Greek Communist Party, Leonidas Stoltides, to the Minister of Finance, on "Problems of Workers in the Greek Vehicle Industry S.A., which is in special liquidation". Also, there is no consultation on the fourth question of No 734/10-5-2021 of the second cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Communist Party of Greece, Manolis Synthraki, to the Minister of Culture and Sport, on "Direct measures to support the Associations and the athletes in the relaunch of sport". We continue with the fifth under the number 750/10-5-2021 topical question of the first Senate MEP, Mr. Konstantinos Boumbas, to the Deputy Prime Minister responsible for communication and information issues, Mr. Theodoros Livanios, on the subject: "Extension of the right to pay a reduced rent at DIGEA". Mr. Booba, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u181	Thank you very much, Mr President. Just for seconds to say what was heard about the Nymphan customs office. Apart from the economic consequences and the bleeding that it will cause in the wider region, it will bring many problems to my constituency, to Serres Prefecture. Because the Promahona Customs office because of the staff and the self-propelled scanner cannot control the situation and will re-establish car tails and this is not the best for the country's profile and image abroad, as it will be the only gateway to almost the wider region of Eastern and Central Macedonia from the Balkan countries and not only. That's in parentheses. Minister, my role today will be a two-tier, because I have served the field of regional television for thirty years. So, I have experienced what we say can really get on the right track on regional television, which is wrong and I am presumed on it, and I will bring you a number of examples. You are a man with scientific knowledge in the "know how", in the new technology, and we must certainly be in line with the new technology. However, DIGEA has not financially helped the channels. The time that the province's channels are experiencing is very difficult. Advertisements are not there, shops are closed and the season is lost because we are going over a very difficult period. In summer there's no viewing, you know, because of weather. My fellow journalists and technicians are therefore in danger of staying on the road. They can't cover their salary. Why am I saying that? Apart from the fact that there are no advertisements, the amount that has to be paid as a monthly rent on the terrestrial digital signal, the channels of the region are excessive, is quite large. For example, the channels in eastern Macedonia and the two channels in Serres "NETYO" and the "GREENS" that are buttoned on the platform of Eastern Macedonia like the rest, pay the rent of 4000 euros a month along with VAT. If a channel closes, all the channels are inclined to pay for this money and they share it. From that point on, you realise that with EUR 4,000 and an ad in the province that runs at EUR 150, 200 or 250, my Minister, half the ads of the programme flow must be for DIGEA. What remains for my journalists, what remains for technicians, what remains for operational expenses. So, you realize that DIGEA is going well into the new technology, but it has not helped what we call quality of life my colleagues on the channels are working on. Now there is a document from the Association of Information Televisions of the Hellenic Region - and I have discussed it with Mr. Koukotini Leuteris from the "ENA" of Kavala and the "STAR" of Northern Greece and the other channels - which you have taken 5 March of 2021 - I have also spoken with Mr. Arabatzis there and everyone - to extend the payment of a reduced rent of DIGEA. The protocol number 381 was sent to you on 5 March. People argue that they are 'not coming out'. We're entering a time when what they're advertising now, the viewing falls. They therefore expect them to be able to work with the schools and school September - October and with the advertising market shortly before Christmas. It is unknown what will happen in the autumn, but we hope to go well on the basis of the virus cycle. So give a breath, Minister. Help my colleagues be able to pay normally on time, why all over the world take the children and what do they get? "Okay, if you do not have it," the canalarchs will say. I know you need to clash with a share capital on terrestrial digital TV, with great powerful lobbys and families - and well they do for their businesses - but help a little to breathe what is called provincial regional TV, to be able to reporters and technicians to cope. Give an extension to pay reduced DIGEA as you gave them until February. Give an extension to get some oxygen so that workers and channel owners can get back to the periphery. Because advertising pie has been restricted and has taken it down because of the economic and health crisis. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u182	Thank you very much, Mr Buba. The Deputy Minister will answer the Prime Minister Theodoros Lebanon. Mr. Levanie, good evening, good week. You have three minutes to answer Mr. Booba.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u183	Thank you, Mr President. Dear Mr Bouba, I have the pleasure and I am in constant dialogue with the Union of Regional Stations and there is a number of issues that we are trying to resolve, which are quite a year old. Last March the Act of Legislative Content provided for a reduction in the price paid by regional stations to DIGEA. This was requested. We were practically in the early days of the pandemic. It was in the first package of measures implemented and announced by the Government. The protection net that was developed in the next few weeks and months had not spread. In essence, therefore, it was given immediately because we were in the days of the first lockdown in order to avoid the immediate risk of liquidity in the channels. I would remind you that DIGEA is not a state-owned company. It is a private company, which, through a competition, has been able to manage the digital spectrum for television in Greece for a number of years. Because this is something we are considering and we expect to see how the situation with the coronary will develop, what we did in time, in February 2021, with the n. 4779, especially for regional television, were four specific actions. Firstly, we have definitively excluded regional television from the obligation to pay 1.5% of the National Film Center, which existed and was years old all these years and was like loose ends. Secondly, we have incorporated regional television into the press support programme for the years 2017 to 2020. What exactly did we do? Since some time ago, in February, the Council decided on 2% in favour of the EAFRD, which had appealed for a series of regional channels and, in particular, regional newspapers and their application was not accepted and they were obliged to pay 2% of their turnover to EAFRD, we said: Instead of looking for criteria for the financing of the press and we discussed it in detail in the House and I am glad that, if I am not mistaken, all parties had agreed, to come and pay from 2017 to 2020, these amounts for the EAFRD on behalf of the channels, we would actually pay them an obligation that was now due and we would have had a number of problems. In fact, because some have been consistent despite the difficulties of all the years, what we have said is that those who have done it to EACH with literally soul pain, to pay them and to return them to themselves to manage them as they want. The ministerial decision is at the last stage of signing and I imagine it will take a few weeks to submit the supporting documents for their control and for the EAFRD and the relevant departments of the General Secretariat of Information and the Ministry of Finance to proceed with the disbursement of these important amounts. Thirdly, especially for regional television 5%, the advertising tax, which was an important barbaric, for two years, 2021-2022, has been suspended. Fourthly - and I conclude with this - we have enabled all debts to be adjusted to the EAFRD. In addition to 2% there are so-called employers' contributions depending on the amount of up to 72 instalments. This was therefore an important ‘breath’ especially for regional television, so that they could, in understanding the problem they face, cope with and be able to rely on at this difficult time. We also have the government and I personally have been placed on several occasions on the importance of regional and regional television. It is essentially the dismantling of the local population in order to learn the news of their region. Many times large pan-European channels do not cover the news about the regional level. So this is one of the things we do in order to support. They shall evacuate in collaboration with both the Ministry of Digital Governance and the Minister of State Mr Pierracakis next actions. It is the authorisation of regional stations, that we solve this chronic problem and of course we also see the licensing of radio stations and that we see problems specifically for the Serres prefecture, as it is paradoxical to belong to central Macedonia, but to broadcast to eastern Macedonia and Thrace, to see if this can be solved and how. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u184	Thank you very much, Mr. Undersecretary. Mr. Booba, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u185	Minister, you know very well that the core of law-abiding operation needs satellites. If there are no satellites, the core doesn't work. Regional TV, regional media, radio and newspapers must therefore be supported to enable the Athenian-centric information model to function against the channels that are close to the local communities. Local societies, in order not to be uninformed, through their local channels, will see the news releases and entertainment and journalistic shows, the channels with DIGEA, for example in my own region, which is a strange situation. But can I tell you something? If it's the two channels ours will go to touch in Thessaloniki and pay six thousand euros a month, they're done, they're clean. Not that now four thousand are few. Look at that. You know very well that a business, for example, a commercial store, either a supermarket or a clothing shop from the Oresteia or the Dumotik - I am hypothetically speaking - will not be advertised on the Serres Channel. Is the Horestiade going there? Again, the channels with local communities can be viewed, these emissions are seen. All DIGEA has helped, because you are a man of technology and I even heard some of your statements at the Delphi Economic Forum, if I'm not mistaken, that the channels should be harmonized in the new data. From there on, however, the pie is small, the money is not enough. Help out the channels. I call on you on the basis of this request. I don't collide. You have had four important actions for regional television. Look at it. It's been a few months. What do the channels have to work now, May, June, July? Where do they have revenues? How will journalists and technicians be paid, these families who live from the channels? New armies of the unemployed will be created. We can't talk about it. They want a little help, to slowly enter into a normality in the market, to be able to regain the advertising that they have to have in order to meet their expenses. The second complaint is that these actions may have been taken, I do not question them, but state advertising is not given in the region as it should have been, 30%. It's a law of 1996. It must have been in PASOK. What have people got? They've taken 0.3%, 0.7%, not at all. The law does not apply to 30% of the law which obliges regional channels or better to the type of region, given that other media there are to be allowed to walk. So, Minister, I believe in your sensitivity, in your political will. Do as far as possible. Surely DIGEA is a private company, it's a monopolistic state, it's a monopoly regime. Oh, of course. We wanted competition - competition. For example, I do not know whether it can "walk" as a digital provider public television, but it is a discussion that will probably take place in the future. The amount is great. Believe me that the business cycles that provide this capacity for digital terrestrial television are profitable, i.e. they have no deficit. Now, will you tell me, will the state bear all this burden on a private company like this one of the long-range channels that has created DIGEA? No, but you can press politically, you can intervene on the current situation, which leads to an economic deadlock in the channels, much more after a difficult winter we spent without revenue, with five and ten supermarket ads, since they were the only ones that were open. So they don't survive the channels. Paying DIGEA? To pay the salaries of journalists and technicians? Pay PPC? To pay the operational and other costs to be modernised? And one final thing: colleagues are overdoing themselves, working beyond hours because they want to do so. Employers are kicking them out, and they're going back to get a show, because caradokun and the fines from the PSE if a news report doesn't come out, if a news report doesn't come out. You are aware that this also depends on the 'patriotism' of the people working on regional television. That is what I really want you to see, so that we don't have to cry in the summer, where some people will be forced to stop because the TVs don't come out. I want you to look at it sensitively against all the regional channels that work for colleagues. It's not a question of Employees. How will the employer pay them if he doesn't have any revenue? We're not talking about other times. Look at it, please, to give an economic breath, to give hope to these people. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u186	Thank you very much, Mr Buba. Mr. Levanie, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u187	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Bouba, you should be aware that, first, the channels, even the pan-Hellenic and regional areas, apart from what I have said, were also beneficiaries of the other support measures that apply to the other companies, so they still had a significant reduction. Secondly, the truth is that there are many issues in the regional press and in the regional channels. I gave you some examples. Because you have also raised the issue of 30%, we are in dialogue with regional associations too, in order to resolve serious issues such as the media register, particularly in regional and television media and in the periodical and daily type of the region, so that we know what the 'basket' will be that can be the beneficiaries and on the criteria of so-called state advertising. With associations, we are in a dialogue and we are talking about finding solutions. All the issues raised are dealt with. And the letter, obviously, on which you supported and addressed this timely question, we are debating it. What we need at the moment to see is after the gradual lifting of the lockdown how we move on to reboot, if you want, of the economy, but also what needs the regional channels will have. I repeat what I told you before, that Digea is also a private company. The issue with ERT could be discussed. However, the tendering procedure was carried out on a specific condition that Digea is the monopoly. It will therefore be harmful to change any contract if we discuss any change, at least as long as the contract is 'current'. From there on, the Minister said before and how to codify the television signal. We'll see later - in a very future time, I'd say - how we can handle it. In conclusion, since you raised the issue of Promahona, which is important for both the Prefecture of Serres, but also for Eastern Macedonia and Thrace, and given that a large proportion of the incoming tourism in these areas is mainly from countries such as Bulgaria and Romania, where a large number of tourists are coming down mainly to the beaches of Serres Prefecture, the Cordials, or the Kavala or Thassos Prefecture or Alexandroupolis, Xanthi, etc., I will say: A space was ensured shortly after the Greek-Bulgarian border in the area of Nyfaia, where one will be set up - with the assistance of the Ministry of National Defence, and they have contributed the logistics - the station in which the checks will be carried out to travel to Greece, after the border station. It is a matter of very few days for the Nymphaea to open in order to serve the visitors of the country. It is important to move forward in the opening of tourism, but at the same time to have the highest possible level of protection against any coronary cases that enter the country. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u188	Thank you both very much. Have a nice day, I wish. We are now moving on to the third debate under No 722/10-5-2021 of a topical question from the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr. Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Critical questions about the progress of vaccinations against covid-19'. Mr. Poula, you have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u189	Thank you very much, Mr President. Vaccination against COVID -19 is undoubtedly a unique and safe way out of the health crisis that we are experiencing. The speed with which the vaccination process is being carried out, as well as the need for citizens to respond, are key elements that will restore the country to an economic and social normality and shield the country sanitaryly during the tourist season. The government, in its friendly tactics, is trying to show that everything is going well in the course of obtaining vaccination immunity. The statistics, however, which see the light of publicity give cause for concern and concern. In particular, according to the report by the European Infections Agency, which describes the vaccination map in all the countries of the European Union, it appears that the most sensitive ages, those of sixty years and over, and especially those of seventy to eight, have not responded as they should have been in vaccination, as the rates of vaccinated at these ages range from 60%. There is also a lot of talk about the percentages of vaccinated health. According to the WTO Press Release on May 6, 62% of health care has been vaccinated on the basis of the list maintained by hospital administrations, 10% of health care has been treated with coronary and the antibodies are regularly monitored, as is the relevant directive from the Ministry of Health. Finally, 10% is either on the hospital lists and expects to be vaccinated, whether it is enrolled on the electronic platform of the vaccine and an appointment for vaccination, or it belongs to groups that are not indicated, according to medical guidelines, for vaccination. At the same time, the WTO urges that a second opportunity be given for the vaccination of sanitary personnel, and it is certain that they will participate globally. Finally, the influx of more doses of vaccines in the country, as well as the need to accelerate vaccinations and, in the run-up to the tourist season, require the functioning, throughout the territory, of as many vaccination centres as possible, and their staff with adequate staff. Our questions, Minister, are as follows: What action do you intend to take in order to promote further vaccination for the citizens of over sixty? Will you give me a second chance to vacate health? Secondly, what is your planning for the operation of more vaccination centres in the country, as well as for their adequate staff? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u190	Thank you very much. The current question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Minister, you have the floor for three minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u191	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, before I answer your questions, let me make a few introductory remarks and refer to events reflecting the real picture of vaccinations in our country. To date - data 14/5/2021 - in the context of the national vaccination operation 'Freedom' has been vaccinated by two million seven hundred eighteen thousand four hundred fellow citizens at least with the first dose of the vaccine and one million five hundred ten thousand ninety-five have completed the second dose. The population's vaccination coverage rate is 39.87%, while 14.38 is considered to be fully covered vaccination. Today there are four million twenty-five thousand seventy-seventy-four confirmed dates and we believe that in July more than 50% of our fellow citizens will be fully vaccinated. The "Freedom" vaccination operation is a national project that is progressing successfully and primarily progressing smoothly thanks to the contribution of all health and personnel involved in the conduct of this operation. You ask the question what the design is for the operation of more vaccination centres. You remember - and you blamed us at first when in January we had fewer deliveries of vaccines than we have now - that we had said about a thousand eighteen vaccination centres across the country. We started operating the vaccination centers in the country's hospitals. We're eighteen, and we're over it. A thousand eighteen were the original design. A thousand and a half - if I remember well a thousand and a half seventeen - are the vaccines that operate in the country, in order to ensure that the population is kept as quickly as possible. And we said that depending on the needs we have, if need be, we'll make more vaccines. I would also remind you that we said that - with our initial calculations - we could do two million vaccinations a month. This design has been overturned and we will have more vaccinations especially in May. 5.6 million vaccinations will take place in the country. And, of course, once again that we have ensured quantities of vaccines for the whole population. We will not leave any of our fellow citizens who wish to be vaccinated without vaccine. And that even concerns the vulnerable groups of the population, such as our inhabited fellow citizens. You mentioned, Mr Poula, to our fellow citizens over sixty years of age and said that the rate of those vaccinated is less than 60%. Let me correct you. The rate of vaccinated at these ages is well above 60% you report, with a daily trend to increase this rate. Characteristics I will say that per age group have been vaccinated, they have booked an appointment for vaccination: From eighty-five years old and more than 63% has been vaccinated with at least one dose and the planned dates amount to 68%, from eighty to eighty-four years old 64% has already been vaccinated with at least one dose and with scheduled dates the rate is 69% co. For the ages of seventy-five to seventy-nine, the amount is 73%, seventy-seven-four and continues at the next ages, sixty-five to sixty-four. In conclusion, I should like to make it clear that health vaccination - we gave priority to health, you are health and you know it, because we wanted to protect those people who provide health services and our fellow citizens who come to health structures in order to be vaccinated - it did not stop. Even now any sanitary person can come to a vaccination centre and do the vaccine if he wishes. And of course, there is constantly an attempt to increase health care and I think we are doing this. The data available to us indicate that 82% of doctors, 63% of nurses and 60% of other workers and, respectively, in the private sector, 88% of doctors, 62% of nurses and 63% of other workers have been vaccinated. I insist. I repeat that health workers are prioritised and can be vaccinated at any time and at the same time, they can be vaccinated, as can other citizens. The "Freedom" operation is progressing smoothly and according to our programming. There is no communication tactic but hard work. Vaccination is the weapon we have in order to overcome this pandemic. And I do not understand - let me - where your concern and concern are identified in a successful vaccination operation of all Greek citizens. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u192	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Poulas has the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u193	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the vaccination situation in our country is not as pink as you and the government and the Ministry want to present it. And explain immediately what I mean. There are gaps in the vaccination of adults, especially those who have to be taken very seriously, such as the chairman of the National Vaccination Committee itself. In Greece, at least one dose of 63.5% of the citizens from 80 years of age and over has been vaccinated, and 64.9% at the ages of 70 to 79 when the European Union average is over 74%, while in countries such as Portugal, Spain, Belgium, Denmark, Finland, Malta exceeds 90%. As is natural the low vaccination coverage of these ages in relation to other countries also has an impact on the data of covid deaths. In our country over the last few weeks seven deaths per million inhabitants have been recorded on average, when in the same period the European Union average is now down to 3.7%, while in Portugal and Spain it is 0.21% and 1.96% respectively. So you realise that the numbers as unpleasant as they are to be used when talking about the deaths of our fellow citizens, unfortunately show the various things. And I ask you: what is the result of this lower coverage than the other countries of our elderly fellow citizens? Is it due to the fact that while the vaccination of these age groups began, there were a few vaccination centres, so that many elderly people do not go to them? Is it due to the fact that the government did not then supply the quantity of vaccines envisaged by the European Union so that they would be directed to another country? Also, we do not forget that there was a time when to be vaccinated one had to travel miles or miles by sea. Was that a factor that discouraged the elderly to go to the vaccination centres? We've been telling you since. So when will you finally implement your commitment to home vaccination? What happened to this design? Did he go for a walk? Could this process finally be used to vaccinate our elderly and fellow citizens from diseases that prevent them from being moved? The Minister himself in December said that where the citizen cannot go to a vaccination centre, the state will go to the citizen. Unfortunately, we don't see it happening. In addition, there are people who hesitate for various reasons to be vaccinated. What do you intend to do with that? Shouldn't there be a new information campaign at some point, but not the same model of communication that you used to date? We're talking about real briefings from scientists who know the subject. What is your planning for the widest possible acceptance of the citizens' vaccination? The vaccination coverage should concern all residents in our country. I say this because there are reports today that talk about tens of thousands of foreign retired and repatriated Greeks who are permanently living in our country who do not have access to vaccination as they wait for months for their applications for temporary AMCA to be answered. What are we going to do with this? Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u194	Please, Mr. Poula. Mr. Kontozamanis has the floor for three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u195	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Poula, we've been through this too many times. But I will repeat them, because you raise questions that have been answered and everyday life shows that what you claim is not true. We said at first, in the first traditions of vaccines, that the quantities were few. We know. This has been done throughout Europe. The vaccines that we received were distributed to us and to the other countries based on the population of each country. All the countries of Europe took a few vaccines at first, and then you told us, 'you have said that you will open 1018 vaccine centres and have not opened up half of them'. And we said to you: 'Let's open them without vaccines, for communication reasons?' And I tell you that we are now over the 1500 vaccination centres, because we have too many vaccines available to us. And make it clear once again. No distribution of vaccine has been made from our country to another country. I'm saying it because you mentioned it. And it makes sense that when a business starts, it is not possible for the whole population to be vaccinated at the same time or within a month. We'd have achieved a miracle. This is done in all countries. And if you see it again - I say it because you are a doctor - vaccination plans in other countries are too close to ours. All countries followed age criteria at the beginning because they had to protect older ages and then went to vulnerable groups and other younger populations or opened it, open it to the general population. We didn't find the wheel. We followed the international organisations' directives and, of course, the national vaccination committee's directives. Our scientists said nothing different from what they said in other countries. You referred to home vaccinations. I said it before. We've said it many times. Yes, there are our fellow men, our fellow citizens who cannot move. And we have said that we are preparing a plan, which we will present in a few days' time, so that we can get to these people to inoculate them. I said it in my protology. We have ensured vaccines for the whole population. Anyone who wants to be vaccinated will be vaccinated. And whoever can't come to a vaccination centre will go and vaccinate the population. Finally, as far as the information campaign is concerned, yes, we must all be informed. The state must inform the population of the good of vaccination. And I think that reality itself, namely, how vaccination is evolving globally, demonstrates the success of the vaccines circulating in the treatment of pandemic. We shouldn't be reassured. I repeat that the vaccines are the most powerful, the most powerful weapon we have at our disposal to deal with our pandemic and we must convince our last fellow citizen that it must be vaccinated. And that's what we do, we don't stop, and we'll keep doing it. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u196	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on Tuesday, with No 723/10-5-2021 a timely question from the second cycle of the MP Argolida of the Change Movement Mr.Andreas Poulas to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'A return to the battle against the pandemic'. Mr. Poula, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u197	Thank you, Mr President. Over a year, our country has experienced the pandemic of the coronary, during which protection of public health has emerged as a major theme. At the same time, the crucial and decisive role of the ESS and the structures of primary and secondary health care has emerged. One year now, the health staff of the ESS and the rest of the public structures have been working uninterruptedly, overcoming the limits of physical and psychological endurance, in unprecedented circumstances, overcoming insurmountable difficulties, without normal leave but a day off, which you have just changed in the last week, and while we have already pointed this out to you with a written question in this House, which you have still not answered. And in recent months, with the rapid increase in cases, hospitals, people who are hospitalized in the ICU, the working conditions of health workers, either in the external medical services, in the clinical covid, or in the ICU, have become dramatic and stress has increased excessively. Let's not forget that you've turned whole hospitals into hospitals exclusively for covid. All these health workers have long waited for practical government recognition, which has only remained in the words to date. For example, the Minister of Health, on 29-4, stated that the government plans to grant bonuses to workers in the National Health System. In particular, he said that the Prime Minister of the country, who has already taken care of horizontally and have received bonuses, will do so again in the time that he must, and that the government is studying various political decisions that can support, shield, further strengthen these people. Because this statement, in our view, is unclear and vague, because the proposal to incorporate health into heavy and unhealthy is still unsatisfactory, because the enormous supply of health workers to pandemic is acknowledged by society as a whole and because the words are easy, but the projects are the ones that remain, we ask you, Minister, when will the bonus be paid, the allowance be paid to health workers? What will be his height? Who will be the beneficiaries? What are the various political decisions which the government, according to the Minister for Health, is considering to support, shield and further strengthen health personnel? Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u198	Thank you, Mr. Poula. You will be answered by the Deputy Minister of Health, Mr. Vassilis Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have three minutes for your prototype speech.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u199	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, we all know that in the last fourteen or fifteen months our country and the whole world has been fighting a great battle. We all recognise that this battle, especially in our country, is being won thanks to the superhuman efforts of all health personnel in the country. Everyone has exaggerated themselves and we know it and we recognize it. They also kept the system up, clearly, because of the resistance shown by the National Health System. And their protagonist role seems even today, because health workers are involved in the "Freedom" operation of vaccination and more than a hundred thousand vaccinations per day in the country. Throughout this period, the government has practically shown its support for health. We gave financial support last year, Easter, first. But it's not just money. And yes, if there are any financial possibilities, I wish we could give again. And let me tell you, Mr Poula, that you are safely using your institutional role as a Vice-President to make promises that we do not want to promise, but we really want, since we have the possibility, to be able to respond to the situation. I will repeat that not only will financial support be enough, but we must also help all these people who fight to improve their working conditions, be able to join the health system. I would therefore remind you that all the subsidiary doctors who served in intensive care units were given the opportunity to take a permanent position. We have strengthened health staff in the country, in all branches, in all areas. I have said this many times, two thousand assistants were scheduled at first, we have exceeded ten thousand. We have, as I said, given the horizontal extraordinary financial support and our efforts continue, of course, by recognising the fatigue and the great soul and strength that has been paid to all health workers and seeing the epidemiological indicators improved, this has enabled us to move towards the lifting of health personnel's permits in order to get their permits. They need to rest, and they need to rest, because the battle isn't over yet. Of course, further measures of practical recognition and support are also included in the planning of the government, both economic and non-economic. You referred to statements by the Minister of Health, Mr. Kikilia. That, clearly, was what the Minister meant. In any case, we are considering the possibilities we have, but I tell you that we will never enter a process of communications, when we have nothing specific to say. When we are ready and when we were ready, we did so successfully, in response to the commitments we have made. All I have to say is that the government is working and finding solutions and our purpose is to reward it to be essential, whether it is financial aid or something else. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u200	Thank you, Minister. Mr. Poula, you have three minutes for your dentistry too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u201	Minister, the health staff of the ERC have, for a year now - you have said so well - been on the front, unbelievably, at the forefront of the pandemic. It deserves the National Health System, with personal hardship, courage and a high sense of responsibility, when the work problems it faces are too much. What you announced, what you told us, they're crumbs. It takes many more support measures, beyond a symbolic aid - which you have not yet decided, because you need to see your financial data, and I do not know when this will happen - but we, on several occasions, have asked you, in this House - not only the Change Movement but also the other parties - to strengthen hospitals with permanent sanitary staff and to secure temporary health care, to immediately incorporate all health workers into heavy and unhealthy, to improve their low wages, to reinstate the self-taxation of doctors' newspapers, to pay the newspapers over 15% - and to recognise the deaths of coronary health workers as a occupational accident. (AB) I am sorry to say this, but all this time of pandemic, the only thing that the government has done was to hold the existing health staff - by the forces it had - and not to do anything to support, shield and strengthen it at all. Instead of recruiting permanent staff, it resorts to the sloppy solution of fixed-term recruitment and movements to cover various gaps. Until last week, you know very well that they didn't get permission. Now you'll give them the right if the knot arrived at the comb. All you know to do is applause, congratulations and words. Just words. This is where they need works. Only this allowance you gave a year ago I remember. Yesterday, on Saturday with vulgar titles, you wrote that you would give 1,000 euros to the employees of the EMCDDA. One understands that this is compensation for their participation in a recently acquired flight training programme. In fact, it was reported that the amount is EUR 12 million. Isn't that for the others, but only for the people who are in the EAW? Of course we cannot say not in the training of staff but once again don't try to create a communication game that "no, no matter where the money comes, go on and here we are". All health personnel must finally get the bonus and everything I mentioned before. An answer must finally be given to all these health workers with all the demands they have, if they become reality, if within this year they will become heavy and unhealthy. It is an issue that we all ask for, and we all want it to come true. It is the state's duty to ensure human working conditions in public hospitals and thus better and quality health conditions for citizens. Thank you very much.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u202	Thank you very much Mr. Poulla. Minister, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u203	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Poula, first of all, I would like to stress that no on-call is left unpaid, and even more quickly, on-calls than was done in previous years. I would like to remind you that this figure was 9% and we took it to 15%.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u204	I recognize it.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u205	We have already legislated and legitimised any expenditure exceeding 15%. We have voted for this, that is true.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u206	Until March 30th.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u207	Mr. Poula, go to previous bills. Anything that goes beyond, especially in on-calls, is legitimized. We're not gonna leave it out.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u208	An extension should be granted.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u209	We always give extensions. I also want to say on the issue of heavy and unhealthy, because you always put it under parliamentary control: you all know that we are waiting for the results of a committee, which looks at all heavy and unhealthy, not just in the health sector, but in all sectors of the economy, and of course we will see from there and from now on how we are going to go. In any case, I repeat that our aim is to all recognise the great effort made by the personnel. We have a road in front of us, we're not done. We need the staff to get their permissions, and that's what we did, because the epidemiological indicators allow it. In any case, I agree that it is not only the good words that you will tell someone about the work she does, we have to reward these people economically and non-economicly, and this is what the government is doing and it respects its commitments, its promises and is consistent in any announcements she makes. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u210	Thank you very much, Minister. We move on to the seventh, the Question 746/10.5.2021 topical question of the second parliamentary Lesvos Parliamentary Lesvos of the Communist Party of Greece, Maria Konnaka, to the Minister of Health, on "Direct action to address the problems of the Ikaria Hospital and take measures to address the dispersion of Covid 19". Mrs. Konnakka good evening, good week. You have two minutes to start.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u211	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, while the government has been fiercely presenting the covid free islands and preparing for the long-standing openness of tourism, Ikaria has been counting on new cases for the past two weeks and remains in deep red. This situation alone gives rise to concern, let alone the fact that primary health care and the Hospital of Ikaria, which is called upon to cover the population of Ikaria, Forens and Thymana, despite the great words of the government over all these months, remain in a tragic state. This development makes it even more imperative that the long-term need to meet the long-term demand to strengthen the public health structures of the island which, under the responsibility of all governments, remain the same. The Ikaria Hospital clinics are covered by just a doctor in a number of specialties such as a pathologist, a cardiologist, a pediatrician, a gynaecologist, while an anesthesiologist serves at the Hospital, who is going to retire without having started his replacement, effectively jeopardizing the operation of the surgical clinic itself. A number of specialties are completely lacking from the Hospital, such as a pneumonologist, in a hospital that has joined the anti-covid project, while after long-term claims the Hospital finally acquired a modern CT scanner now, however, it has no radiologist to operate the CT scanner. At the same time, given that a large number of workers, about a quarter, are contractors who end their contract by the end of the year, one understands that problems are gigantic. At the same time, he faces serious issues with his equipment, such as respirators, but also the lack of IF and MFF, while at the same time the EAW does not have the necessary fleet and staff to meet the needs of the island. The existing incomplete staff lifts the burden of vaccination for the inhabitants of the island, while under these conditions the hospital administration is looking for sponsorships to meet the reagent needs for PCR test which have been exhausted, while until some time before there was only one step of EGE to control all the inhabitants of the island. In view of these possibilities of health structures, therefore, the conditions created by the opening of the focus and the start of the tourist season prescribe a pitiful future. So, Minister, we ask you what measures are to be taken to strengthen the structure of the EGE in order to make targeted epidemiological surveillance of the population with massive tests. What measures will you take to ensure adequacy of a diagnosis test and the provision of the Hospital with hundreds of molecular tests that would help accurate diagnosis of the disease in order to check travellers arriving in the next period on the island? What measures will you take to make all the necessary recruitments of permanent staff of all full-time and full-time specialists in order to fully serve both the Ikaria Hospital and the primary health structures and to simulate without conditions and conditions all medical care and other staff who are already working on it? Of course, we are asking you what you are going to do to increase the state funding of the Hospital, so that the needs of the logistics infrastructure are firmly met.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u212	Thank you very much, Mrs. Konnakka. This question will be answered by the Deputy Minister for Health, Mr Kontozamanis. Mr. Contozamani, you have the floor for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u213	Thank you very much, Mr President. Mrs Konnakas, I would first like to inform you of the information concerning the staff of the General Hospital - Ikaria Health Centre. The positions for which the appointment procedure has been completed have been announced: a curator's position, a curator's position, a pediatrician's position, a curator's position, a dentist's second surgery, two medical sites, a cardiology director's position, two curator's second radiology and a nephrology director's position. There are also places which have been atrocious, during their proclamation: a position of director of internal pathology, a position of curator of general medicine, a position of curator of beta neurology, a position of curator of obstetrics and gynecology, a position of curator of radiology. Also, a curator's position, a curator's position and an internal pathology director's position. The procedure is at the stage of the investigation. Furthermore, three subsidiary specialists of ORL, pediatrician and pathologist, six PU nurse assistants and twenty auxiliary staff - nursing and others - have been placed, such as nurse assistants, nurses, medical machines operators, chamber assistants, patient transporters. With regard to the existence of a pathologist and a cardiologist you are pointing out - and according to what I have just said - there will soon be two and then a single internal pathology director's position and a cardiology director's position. On the one hand, he has accepted the position of a doctor of pathologists and the intake FEK is expected and, on the other hand, a cardiologist was already appointed. In addition, they serve two pediatricians, one permanent and one adjunct, and they are expected to transfer a medical nurse to a gynaecologist, and two of them will become obstetricians - gynecologists. In relation to the imminent retirement of the sole anaesthetologist, steps have already been taken to activate the procedure for a post of anesthetic graduate curator. And we all know of course, because you come from an island area that there is a more general lack of anaesthetics, which is why anesthesiology belongs to the so-called "experts" and the Ministry of Health is further studying measures to attract these doctors to island and remote areas. In relation to the skills of a neurologist and psychiatrist, which are not covered, there is cooperation with Samos Hospital and doctors of a corresponding specialty provide services to patients in Ikaria either through telemedicine or with visits to the island. With regard to the Artificial Nephrous Unit, he was appointed director of nephrology and is to be awarded an open tender for the procurement of medical devices for the award of the project "development of an artificial kidney unit at the Hospital - Ikaria Health Center", after approval of the updated technical specifications and the Committee for the conduct of the public electronic open tender for the supply of medical equipment. I want to come to the case number now. It should be noted that on Monday Easter it was only recorded on the third case. Since then, there has been an increase, probably due to the relaxation in Easter days, which is why the area has been placed under surveillance, which means that increased controls have been carried out. In particular, I would like to mention that in Ikaria a mobile unit of the EGE is based and exercises mass controls, while, whenever necessary, a second step is taking place to carry out mass controls, as has been the case lately. As far as PCR reserves are concerned, they are currently low and a new variant is expected immediately. However, there is no shortage and, if necessary, these samples are transported to other areas in order to carry out diagnostic tests. Note that travellers on board a ship or aeroplane should have completed at least fourteen days before their arrival and show the certificate of vaccination, have been diagnosed negatively either in laboratory testing for a coronary using the PCR method within the last 72 hours before the scheduled time of journey, whether to have carried out a rapid diagnostic check either with a rapid test or a self-diagnostic check within 24 hours prior to the scheduled journey time. There are other procedures, as you know, to ensure that our citizens are not spread and diagnosed with a coronary, mainly asymptomatic patients, so that we can limit the transmission and spread of the virus. Therefore, when entering the island there is no need to carry out tests on travellers, if all these procedures have been followed and have carried out the necessary diagnostic tests and have completed the necessary data on the platforms that operate for each traveller coming on the island, and on exit there is an alternative self-diagnosis test. Finally, in relation to the course of vaccination, according to the available data on 15.5.2021, from the official website of the state "emvolio.gov.gr" in a total of ten thousand inhabitants, a total of six thousand five hundred thirteen vaccinations have been carried out, of which two thousand nine hundred ninety-seven are in both instalments. Allow me here - and I thank you, Mr President, for your tolerance - to tell you that in his approved budget, Ikaria Hospital for this year, a total of EUR 1 000 000 have been provided for, and of them, the Hospital has already received 431,000 to meet its operational needs and, of course, in any case and if necessary, there is additional appropriations available in the context of dealing with the pandemic, in order to ensure the smooth functioning of the Ikaria Hospital as well. This, of course, also applies to the whole of the country's health structures, how much more so to a health structure located in island Greece, where we pay particular attention as I said and do our utmost to cover the gaps in these structures both in equipment and in medical staff. That is why, as we have said, we are considering giving additional incentives to enable medical and other staff to serve in these areas. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u214	You're welcome. Mrs. Konnakka, you have three minutes for your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u215	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, in listing the various specialities that you have said have been published and are to be hired in the next period at the Hospital of Ikaria, you have omitted - I do not know whether it was by chance or why we are not talking about such positions - the word 'permanent' recruitment. Because as you have said, and because we happen to know the situation in the hospitals in the island regions - and we know it in our tower for many years now - this is not a new incident, that is every three or so to remain the hospitals with a doctor per specialty, with huge shortages and gaps in critical specialities. This is a timeless situation experienced by both the inhabitants of Ikaria and the inhabitants of the other islands, who permanently see their needs for constant health care to enter the bed of Prokrust, depending on when each time the Ministry ties up to cover basic health needs. They are characteristic, as I described in my protology, the various tragedies created at intervals, such as that they have waited for the CT scanner for years and the acquisition of a modern CT scanner, the Ikaria Hospital was left without a radiologist or that the Artificial Nephro created after many years' claims did not work because there was no nephrologist and as soon as nephrologist was hired, not all the necessary instruments have been provided to enable it to function and therefore the nephrologist was detached to Lemnos, where there is a similar situation of subscribing and deficiencies. The result is that the nephropaths of the island continue to go to Samos with the known difficult ferry connection. Furthermore, as you have pointed out today, you say that the needs are met in PCR, but do you not respond why the hospital administration is constantly looking for sponsorships to cover the reagents for molecular tests and not covered by the state budget? Also, a hospital considered to be enrolled in the management of the coronary works without a pneumonologist, does not have an IF and a MAT, does not have a radiodiagnostic device, and if a single respirator present in the hospital is used for a patient, then it will not automatically be able to use the surgery if there is an emergency. So here is how the ESS is transformed into a health system of a disease, because in order to meet the increased needs of the pandemic, the other functions of the hospital must be paralysed and, of course, not covered in time and with sufficient equipment in the hospital. So the situation that I described for the Hospital of Ikaria is not even covered by your answer today, which does not always speak of permanent recruitment of medical, paramedical and nursing staff, but of course leaves the government out once again, because it confirms the concern that exists. For the second time, it attempts to open up tourism, in compliance with only the cheques and health protocols of the major tourist and transport companies, it places the pandemic on the self-diagnosis of self-diagnosis of self test, but also on the necessary vaccination, which, apart from being massive, cannot in any case replace the necessary measures to protect and shield the public health system which, unfortunately, still remains inadequate. In the face of these questions that are particularly concerned about the people of Ikaria, neither does your answer today, much more so, nor does the situation of the inhabitants so far, by covering a hole - so to speak - in a hospital, at the same time opening up another one to another. That is why we call on you to commit that staff recruitment will be permanent, to meet the needs of the population firmly, that the funding will be increased so that they can obtain all necessary equipment, respirators, reagents, diagnostics, etc. Of course, the EGE's units remain stable on the island so that they can monitor the epidemiological development, especially in the context of the opening up of tourism. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u216	Thank you, Mrs. Konnakka. Minister, you can answer for three minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u217	Mrs Konnakkas, let me say that the recruitments that have been mentioned, of course, and are permanent staff recruitment, so I told you that some have been atrocious and some other posts have been completed, while the others are in the process of control. And our aim is to strengthen this structure even further with new notices and, of course, with additional appropriations, if necessary. We are in the month of May, not even in the middle of the year, and it makes sense that the budget is not exhausted, that there are no needs at this time which must be met, but in any case, there is, in both the management of the pandemic and the financial adequacy of the hospital, the necessary appropriations to operate properly. They're available. And to say once again - because you mentioned PCR controls - that the citizen is not charged when he comes to a public structure in order to carry out a diagnostic check. As I told you, EGE is on the island and, if necessary, may also have other mobile units in order to carry out mass checks. Epidemiological surveillance is increased in any case, tourism opens up with specific safety protocols. As with success last year, the tourist season will work this year. We now have the knowledge, we have the experience and we observe all the rules so that the economic activity and the island of Ikaria returns to the pre-famous era. [[This is where the President-in-Office takes over Mr. KONSTANTINOPOULOS.]] In any case, then, we are strengthening and striving to strengthen the Hospital of Ikaria even further, so that our fellow citizens feel safe and provide adequate services on the island. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u218	We continue with the first with number 4760-32021 question of the circle of petitions - Questions, the SYRIZA MP - Evangelos Apostolos Evangelos to the Minister of Health, on the subject: 'Definition of the Vaccine Center for mRNA technology vaccines in Northern Evia'. You're with the chip, too.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u219	Mr President, Minister, I will not dwell on your grandeurs and your unfinished schedules. I will stand up to what is happening in the two Northern Evia Health Centres and especially in Satya, which was one of the 1,018 vaccination centres announced by your Government in the "LEVERIA". At the beginning there was nowhere. After universal protests and after many days, you opened up in Istia and Mandudi only for Astra Zeneka. With the opening, however, of the application for the planning of vaccinations for citizens aged 85 and over, various vulnerabilities have been observed, with dates being defined in structures that were quite far from home. In addition, it lacked any care for the elderly who cannot be moved or have access to the platform, despite the long-established proposal of the SYRIZA/Progressive Alliance, for the use of mobile health units, but also a mechanism that will record people who cannot or cannot be moved and organised at home. What did you do for these people? Absolutely nothing. The characteristic was the case of two of our elderly fellow citizens over the age of 75, which I mentioned in the question - who three and a half months ago I submitted to you - where two months after the start of the vaccinations continued to be, on the substance, excluded from the vaccination procedure, as to be vaccinated must be moved to Chalkida, Kymi, Lamia or Volos. It is characteristic, indeed, that the Satisfaction Health Centre, like that of Mandudi, operated on the day my question was asked as vaccination centres only for people under 64 and only for Astra Zeneka's vaccine. So my question remains. Why is the Northern Evia Health Centre not defined as a vaccination centre for mRNA technology vaccines? In my dentistry, of course, we will say more, Mr President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u220	All right, Mr. Comrade, you did. We get it!
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u221	...for what you do for the people of the province. You misinform them, which is a big deal.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u222	Good, Mr. Apostle. Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u223	Thank you, Mr President. First of all, Mr Apostlelos, I would like to say that I answered some of the things you said, but you were absent from the Chamber. However, you are giving me the opportunity to repeat them. So let me tell you that it is wrong the title of your question. You're talking about the definition of a vaccination centre for mRNA technology and you're creating false impressions. Why are you talking about mRNA technology? What's with the other vaccines? We all need to understand that all the vaccines that are approved and circulated can be carried out throughout the population, except, of course, where there are specific indications and instructions from the competent authorities of each country or the competent regulatory authority. Why only mRNA technology vaccination centre? In fact, I would like to say that I really am glad, because I saw on the Internet today Mr. Blonde who was vaccinated in Rethymnon with "AstraZeneca", made his second dose, without any footnotes, as he said and passing the message and he that the approved coronary vaccines are safe and effective. Refer back to that at the beginning of "Freedom" operation not all vaccine centres have been opened. You've asked a question before, and you told us about a thousand eighteen vaccination centres. I said a thousand five hundred seventeen vaccination centres are currently operating. We know that at first we did not have the amount of vaccines in order to be able to open up all the vaccination centres. As I said before to your colleague Mr Poula, it was not and it is not possible to inoculate the whole world at the same time, and that is why the "Freedom" operation is developing over time. It is not possible to do this in a short time. I would also like to tell you that in Evia there are twenty-nine vaccination lines in fifteen centres. And since January 9th, the vaccination centre in Psachna operates with four vaccination lines and in fact the vaccination centres in Madudi and Istia use only the vaccine "AstraZeneca". And because you referred to the Istias Health Center, I would like to tell you that the Ministry of Health is also considering the possibility of making the mRNA technology vaccine of ‘Pfizer’ available to these vaccination centres, as you say. In any case, however, this is mainly a question of managing the supply chain. However, it is something that we are considering, without that meaning that since the vaccine 'Pfizer' goes to these vaccination centres, the other vaccines must not be made or the other vaccines are concerned. Also, given the existence of a Psachna vaccination centre, which has been operating since the beginning of the year, you are wrong to mention that residents living in Istia or Mandudi should be moved to vaccinate in areas outside Evia. And to make it clear once again, I repeat that at the very beginning that there were not too many vaccines and that these age criteria were set for the prioritisation of vaccination, it is logical that there were no appointments available close to each other's area. Our efforts are therefore continuous in view of the protection of the health of our fellow citizens and, if possible, of the entire population. I repeat that we have ensured vaccines for the whole population. Finally, Mr Apostle, you mentioned something you have done before to our fellow citizens who are inhabited. I said before that our plan is being completed in order to inoculate these fellow citizens too. I repeat once again that we will not leave any of our fellow citizens inconvenience. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u224	Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u225	Minister, you answer a question that was asked three and a half months ago. The mistaken impressions are due to the bad tactics and strategy that you have taken on this issue. Do you know how long it takes to transfer a resident from Northern Evia to where you're sending him? A day's drive! This is the situation and in this situation, therefore, you have a behavior that I call as a stifling behaviour. I'm telling you a typical episode. One day it was notified to the people of Northern Evia that the mRNA technology equipment has been installed and that the new line starts the next day. The next day, however, they were found in front of the tragedy image of withdrawing the vaccination line and the refrigerating equipment being driven to another area. This is something that the people of Northern Evia experienced. Once again there has been another notification that there will be further vaccination centres in the rest of Evia, and quite rightly, but forgetting the two specific health centres. So this repetitive conduct of the government was reflected in your answer. You are showing that you are not concerned about the behaviour of the people concerned. A few days ago, you announced the accession of Evia to the island. But the day before yesterday, the Prime Minister announced that all the inhabitants of the island would be vaccinated immediately, forgot to refer to Evia. Insularity, Minister, is not just a metaphor, but it means that all citizens must be treated in the same manner. Yesterday you announced that vaccinations will be immediately completed on nineteen islands. Is it or isn't Evia in? Evia is not inside, Minister. So you realise that this stifling is incomprehensible to older people and to people who belong to vulnerable groups and cannot be moved. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member is ringing at the end of the bell.]] Minister, you know there are many problems. I have pointed out in particular the problems that exist in the operation of the Chalkida Hospital, where the lack of medical staff, despite the efforts actually made by the workers today, has an unpleasant impact on the functioning of the hospital. So why don’t you finally touch this big issue of recruiting the necessary staff so that the hospital can work?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u226	Finish it, Mr. Comrade.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u227	I shall conclude, Mr President. Minister, I will be very hard to close because we are experiencing a very difficult situation. I have been a Member for many years, and throughout my entire parliamentary term I have not seen a Minister answer, distort my question and at the same time have an vague approach to it, without actually touching on the big problems. That's where you need to give an answer.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u228	I, however, have seen too many ministers who do not answer the questions. Minister, to God, I'm not talking to you. I am just saying, over time, what I have lived and continue to live as a Member of Parliament. Here, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u229	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Apostle, I have answered. You've escaped somewhere in your question. You referred to the hospital in Chalkida. I have answered your question about the hospital in Chalkida about how much we have strengthened it and what programming there is to strengthen it even more. Refer back to the inmates. I think I've exhausted it too many times. I don't have to repeat it, I said it in my prototype. I shall repeat, however, that in Evia twenty-nine vaccination lines operate in fifteen vaccination centres. So, how many centers did we have to have more to cover the entire population? And we'll cover him. You referred to the fact that Pfizer's vaccine was to be taken to Istanbul and it didn't go. Look, programming is as follows: The appointments are booked on the basis of the quantities available and the delivery planning of the vaccines. I told you first of all it was a question of managing the supply chain for where and how the vaccines would arrive. That's why I told you that we're considering the fact, we're considering the possibility of being able to get Pfizer's Sausal Vaccines as well. However, I repeat once again that you are creating mistaken impressions calling for a specific vaccination centre to be set up. All vaccines are approved, they are safe and effective and we need to convince - and you must convince everyone - that the world should come to the vaccination centres and make the vaccine. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u230	We continue with the second question with number 4327/18-2-2021 question of the circle of petitions and questions by MP I Thessaloniki of the Communist Party of Greece Mr.Ioannis Delis to the Minister of Health, on the subject: "Return of funds retained in the context of availability, to hospital workers and primary care units in Thessaloniki". Here, Mr. Colleague, you have two minutes for your prototype.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u231	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, the problem that we have raised in the House about two years ago by questioning it today has the following brief history. In September 2013 due to the abolition of three hospitals in Thessaloniki, Lomomontons, Dermatology and IKA "The Virgin Mary" in Kalamaria, a total of ninety-seven employees who served in them were then made available either as permanent, or for an indefinite period of work, since together with the closure - as is known - and the abolition of these hospitals, the organic and personal positions of these workers were abolished. We are talking for a hundred and seventy employees from the IKA "The Virgin" of Kalamaria, for twenty of the Greek Limodons and seven of the Dermatology. Along with them, however, they had the same fate as tens of employees in the primary care units of Thessaloniki, as well as many hundreds - not to say "thousands" - of the thirteen total hospitals that were abolished since the coup d'état of New Democracy and PASOK, as all of them were placed under availability, without any of their own fault. All these workers now, after the end of their availability, took up about two to three months of normal duty at various hospitals in Thessaloniki. I'm talking about the hundred ninety-seven of the three hospitals in Thessaloniki. So they took office in the Theaguena, the AHEPA, the Hippocrates or returned to the services of the EKA. Twelve of these workers were sent for work in Athens. Here they were given organic posts to work from Thessaloniki and most of them at the “Red Cross” hospital. [[At this point the end of the speaking time of the honourable Member hits the warning bell.]] I shall conclude, Mr President, I will not be late. In May 2017, a law was passed, n. 4472, who in Article 153 and in paragraph 5 states: ‘If the official or staff member returns to his post after being made available on account of the Office, the full remuneration shall be paid for that period’, i.e. for the period of availability. However, to this day, Minister, these workers still expect to receive the salaries of their two-month, three-month availability. So we ask you what you and your Government of course intend to do to which you belong, so that the sums retained at last by these officials in the context of their availability can finally be repaid. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u232	Here, Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u233	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Delis, the staff of both the specific hospitals mentioned in your question, as well as of all hospitals of the 1st, 2nd and 4th Health Region, in which organic and personal locations have been abolished pursuant to Article 90 of the Act. 4172/2013, was not made available on account of the Office, i.e. by error, but pursuant to specific provisions. An indicative case of fault or error of the Office would have been if certain officials had been made available to be exempted under specific provisions from the administrative measure of availability and returned to the Office for the restoration of error. The fact that the staff concerned has been transferred or transferred to another post in accordance with the relevant procedure does not constitute a fault or error of the Office. Consequently, Article 153(5) of the EC Treaty does not apply. 4472 for special salaries invoked by you, which provides that if the staff member or staff member returns to his post after being made available on account of the Office, the full remuneration shall be paid for that period. The provision of Article 25(5) of the Law is also equivalent. This appropriation is intended to cover commitments remaining to be settled from the 2000-2006 programming period. In addition, Article 39 of the Law. 4369 it was established that the time during which the staff were made available under the provisions of inter alia of the Staff Regulations of Officials and the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities and of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities and of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities and of the Conditions of Employment of Other Servants of the European Communities, as amended by Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the European Parliament and of the Council of 14 June 1971, was the same as those laid down in Regulation (EEC) No 1408/71 of the Council of 14 June 1971 on the application of social security schemes to employed persons, to However, there was no provision for the reimbursement of the unpaid remuneration of those officials for the period during which they were made available. In view of the above, the officials of the Thessaloniki Hospital of Special Pathies, the General Hospital of Thessaloniki, the former General Hospital of Thessaloniki "St. Paul" for the period that they were in availability are not expected to receive all the remuneration, but only the 3/4 of them, more than the insurance contributions covered by the institution of origin reduced as planned. The provision of Article 7 of the Law. 4558/2018, according to which the amounts retained in connection with the availability to officials who were organically resident at the ‘Fleming’ Hospital are returned, on the one hand, it does not specify which employees are concerned with, which cases of availability and which time period. Therefore, it could not be put in place to initiate a procedure to re-establish the officials of other bodies of the Ministry of Health who have been made available, in accordance with the above and it is not understandable - let me say - how at the time the Deputy Minister of Health called on the hospital administrations to arrange for the return of the detained, as you said, in February 2019, when discussing an earlier timely question on the same subject. [[The ending bell of the speaking time of the Deputy Minister is ringing at this point.]] To sum up, therefore - and I conclude, Mr President - according to the current legal framework, there is no administrative lack in the payment of all the remuneration of officials who had been made available, since their position was not due to the fault or error of the Office, but to the application of specific legal arrangements. Thank you, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u234	Thank you. Here, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u235	I think Mr. Minister's prototype has come up with a piece of news. Except this news is too negative for workers. You're telling them that they're not going to get these miserable amounts back. That is what we understood, and that is what you actually said. Why? Where do you build this? You say that what has happened, that is, their place of availability, was not at the fault of the Agency, but it was - it says - in application of the provisions of the Rules. Excuse me, Minister, are we kidding now? Who voted for these provisions? Wasn't the Service? Wasn't it the government then? It was not the law that was passed by the government, n. 4172 and the article I don't remember exactly? Have these workers been made available for their own fault? Because the law passed in 2017 - which you have now now unfortunately doubted a moment ago, but this law is valid - says they will get all the wages withheld back if they have not been made available on their own fault. What's simpler? What we want to say, Minister, is that these salaries that have been retained by them - to which the workers are entitled - have been working and suddenly came to the head that they are being made available and we remember very well what happened then, in the summer of 2013, with the thirteen hospitals that closed in one night since the coup d'état - have not been returned for four years since 2017 to them since the law was passed, despite the promises of the then Deputy Health of the Government of SYRIZA, who was assured at that time - because we had then made a relatively timely question - that the process has been initiated to return the money to them on the basis of the regulation made with the “Flemming” hospital. Because - and you must also know that - special arrangements have been made for the workers of Amalia Fleming who have been made available and this is, of course, a legal precedent. The other hospitals should also apply. We don't understand why only in a hospital. However, this money has never been repaid. Meanwhile, in July 2019, governmental rotation with the New Democracy takes the place of SYRIZA. I forgot to say that the then Deputy Health of the SYRIZA Government in its document called on the hospital administrations to arrange for the return of the detainees. These are decisions, documents signed by Ministers. So there is a change in government, and despite the fact that there is a change in government. The Commission's proposal for a directive on the protection of workers from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens from the risks related to exposure to carcinogens at work (COM(86) 4172/2017, which explicitly provides for the return of these detainees and which, unfortunately, you are questioning, despite the fact that there is a vulnerability. 4558/2018 providing special rules for workers in 'Amalia Fleming' who have been made available, and as we said this is a legal precedent, in 2020 the administration of the 4th Health Region - which you have appointed, Minister, your Government - and instead of ensuring that the State fulfils its obligation to return the people who are detained - we are talking about two wages, about wages, about wages, because most of them had only received 25%, and any of those who had received 75% of them back, ask them to know - is doing something else the administration of the 4th Health Region. In writing, I would ask the lawyer to give the opinion as to whether he has to return the information withheld to the workers concerned. Excuse me very much, does the administration of the 4th RCD ask whether the article of the law applicable to the return of the detainees should apply? Because that's what we understand. In any case, the continuity of the anti-Hallian state in all its greatness is reflected here also by the mockery of the SYRIZA government and by your own government. Except that your government now seems to be choosing to close the door for these two to three wages that workers are entitled to and which the then governments have taken away without any responsibility. I don't know what you're going to say in your dentistry. What I know is that because these workers in hospitals are listening to us, I think they should claim it themselves with their own struggles and, of course, with their own efforts to get what they deserve.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u236	Thank you, Mr. Comrade. Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u237	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Delia, the laws are clear and you said so yourself. I'll repeat it. According to his first article n. In 2012, the officials of the Thessaloniki Special Sickness Hospitals, Hippocrates, Saint Paul, receive for the period that they were in availability not all of the salaries, but only three quarters of these more than three quarters of the insurance contributions covered by the institution of origin, reduced by 25%. So, whatever the law says has been given. In any case, that's how we interpret the law. We believe that the state has fully fulfilled its obligations. Thank you very much, Mr President.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u238	We continue with the second with number 736/10-5-2021 topical question from the First Vice-President of the Parliament and MP B2' West Athens Sector of SYRIZA - Progressive Alliance of Dimitrios Vitsa to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "Mell of the Greek Shipyards S.A. (E.N.A.E.) and the real estate of the Real Estate Company (ETAD) in Scaramaga." Mr. Comrade, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u239	Minister, on 7 December 2020 we discussed a same question in the House on the future of the Shipyards. At that time Mr Stagiras had given us some answers which were unclear, in my opinion some misleading, despite the fact that we have tabled specific documents. Since then, the following has happened: There have been two competitions that have turned out to be barren, despite the fact that we have warned you that you are not ready to make competitions and you must put other issues. Although this - the competitions were barren - it proves the lack of preparation and the lack of coordination between the Ministry of Finance and the EBRD, but let me also say the risky nature of irrelevance. Even in Article 60 of the EEC Treaty. 4796 the authorisations of both parties, HSY and EBRD have been separated. At the same time, the Minister for Immigration and Asylum announced the closure of the asylum seeker's hosting centre in Scaramaga and also quickly. It was once going to happen. We don't dispute it if it's right. It is often the Minister of National Defence, Mr. Panayotopoulos, when he is placed for the program to acquire the four freshmen for the Navy, he promises to build some of them, often he says of the three, in Greek shipyards. However, the only Greek shipyards that can build wells are the Scaramaga Shipyards, which are currently not working and are being devalued further. On April 21, 2021, the four Members of West Athens, Mrs Kafantaris and Mr Drasakis, Mr Kouroublis and I submitted a question to the Finance and Migration Ministers, which I made - a part of it - a timely question for the simple reason that, as I am learning, we have developments. So my question is simple. What does the Ministry of Finance and the Government plan to do for the Shipyards and the EBRD? What about the workers owed to them, both those who still belong to the HSY and those who are now retired? We're talking about about 120 million. What about the future and the proposals of the workers? I read in the communication from 14/5 of the Workers' Association the unanimously proposed solution guaranteeing the public interest, the well programme and the future of the Shipyards, which is the state to take control of the Shipyard or part of HSY, so that a private investor does not find himself hostage again. And finally, is there the thought of the space that belongs to ETAD instead of coming into competition, being attributed to the people of West Athens and West Attica as a place of entertainment, education and maritime activities, such as with a proposal of the ‘Citizens in action’ party since 2006 and with a common demand of all the parties of the City Council of Heidari and the City Council itself has been discussed? I would ask you for clear answers, as I hope your questions are for you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u240	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u241	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleagues, for the economy of the debate it is useful to recall what happened with "Greek Shipyard SA". As they all know, in 2008 the European Commission found illegal State aid from the Greek State to HSY and demanded recovery of EUR 600 million together with interest, while in 2018 HSY was subject to a special management process by decision of the Athens Monomelis Court of First Instance in the context of the implementation of the decision to recover the committee. In order to recover State aid, there is a specific institutional framework based on Community law. This institutional framework provides that the assets of the company being liquidated should be sold in public tenders on strict market conditions. Since the beginning of 2018, when the work of special management began to take place until now, there have been gradual divestments of assets of the so-called commercial part in public tenders. The first tender for the sale of the assets of the military arm of HSY was completed on 11.12.20. This contest was declared barren. In particular, two binding tenders were submitted, one of which was found to be improperly submitted and therefore invalid. A general meeting of the creditors of HSY was subsequently convened, which examined and considered the offer of the Pyletech Group inadmissible and therefore unanimously declared the tender infertile. The tender for ETAD assets in the Shipyards was therefore declared barren as no tender was submitted to the minimum set price set at EUR 55 million. There is a presumption that there will immediately be a new notice of the tenders of HSY and EBRD, because the invalid completion of the divestment of HSY’s assets through a tendering procedure entails a burden on the Greek State with high fines for every six months of delay in compliance with the recovery decision of the European Union court. There are five main conditions for the HSY tender. Who are they? Firstly, a certain period of time for conducting the tenders. Secondly, the submission of binding tenders by means of a guarantee letter for the total price. Thirdly, do not specify minimum consideration. Fourthly, no transfer of labour contracts. Fifth, ratification by the competent court of the majority of the Member States of the European Union if the assembly of creditors does not oppose it. It is a given concern for the workers. I'm going to give you a reply to my dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u242	Thank you. [[At this point, Parliament's Vice-President Dimitrios Vitsas presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Parliament's Directorate for Stenography and Practice.]] Mr President, you have the floor. Don't you want to talk?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u243	Mr President, I want to speak. But I want to have an answer to speak on the answer. A lot of coincidences, Minister. A lot of coincidences. On 7 December, you give me the same answer. So you're telling me a story. It wasn't you on December 7th. It was Mr. Staruras. But it happened to be the two of us. I mean, me as questions and Mr. Constantinople as President of that time. Do you know what you've answered to me so far? First, that you're going to make two contests - am I wrong? - who we don't know how they've been prepared. Secondly, I have given you all the papers on why to include workers' requests and demands. You haven't told me anything. You're telling me you're going to answer secondary. Answer the tritology, because I can do a simple thing. In my answer now...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u244	Mr Colleague, the response time is specific. I've got three minutes, and in my prototype, I've talked five minutes. And it gives me the right to have two more.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u245	Don't get upset. It's okay. It's okay. It's okay.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u246	Minister, you don't have the floor. He'll talk and then you'll talk.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u247	If you want to answer, choose the five questions and answer them. You told us the story from 2008 to 2018. Good. So that was your answer. That's what I'm talking about. So the first is that. The second is that workers are seriously at risk. People don't know if they'll have a job next day. That's what you've answered. It is not contained in the tendering procedure as to what it will be ensured. Mr. Stavros had answered that amazing - even though he is a good economist - that the workers are in the passive state. I explained to him that the payroll account is in company pass, not the employees. Workers are not an asset. But it's an asset that upgrades. Third matter. There's the space that belongs to the EBRD. You will now go, since you sincerely want to speak, from the estimate beforehand about the EBRD to lower the 55 million that was the highest price at 35 million that was the lowest price because everyone will be afraid 'if we do not do this for abuse' or anything else. You'll do something like that. I'm saying this. It's this place. There is no facilities but to remove the container 5 to take it to Shipyards. You've removed it, that is. Why don't you give it to the people in the region with some inter-universal company shape or in the region, in the Anti-periphery, in the Municipality of Haidari, somewhere - we can help with this - so that a day break can be built, which they say to the Europeans, where there is entertainment? Along with the University of Western Attica, to become research and educational activities and to have a resting place. That's what I'm telling you to do. At the same time, I am telling you in the competitions, come on for the military arm - which does not cover us - to put two things in place: public participation, as is the case in the Netherlands, as is the case in France, as is happening everywhere. Participation. I'm not telling you what the workers say. That's the one. Secondly, ensuring the future and the payroll of these eight hundred people who are still being paid by the Navy with 65% to be maintained. What happens when the submarine program ends? These simple things I'm asking you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u248	You're welcome, Minister. You have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u249	Thank you, Mr President. Mr Colleague, on the basis of the case-law of the European Union courts, one of the critical indicators taken into account in assessing economic continuity is that the sale of the company's assets is not linked to the continuation of workers' contracts. Otherwise, it is considered that the 2008 recovery decision is being circumvented, with what this implies. In fact, we have been told in writing by the European Commission in correspondence on the implementation of this recovery decision. Our aim remains to as far as possible to ensure that workers' requirements, acquired, etc., are met from the special management liquidation product by means of their classification in the list of creditors following their announcement to the Special Administrator and in accordance with the provisions of Article 77(1) of the Law. Date of birth: 4307/2014. Conservation of jobs depends on the success of HSY's next competition, Mr. President. If there is a majority, the tender achieves and ensures the viability of the company, a large number of jobs will be ensured. In addition to the measures taken to preserve jobs in Skaramaga Shipyards under a new property regime, work with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs is being carried out in cooperation with the Ministry of Labour and Social Affairs, such as the implementation of training programmes, resettlement of workers and the facilitation of pensions for those who are very close to its limit. As far as the question of the concession of the property is concerned, I have the following point: multiplier benefits for employment and economic recovery in the wider region only give the prospect of continuing to operate the property as a shipyard. So there will be new jobs. Through the operation of support operations for the operation of the shipyard in the area, jobs can be created and economic activity strengthened. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u250	Mr. President...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u251	We're going on...
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u252	I don't want the floor to talk. I would like to state what was said in the previous debate.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u253	Check it out, please. Thank you. An 11th question will now be discussed under number 740/10-5-2021 of the Second Cycle of the MP Heraklion of the Change Movement Mr. Vassilis Kegeroglou to the Minister of Finance, on the subject: "To continue the concession of the Real Estate Company (ETAD) in which the International Exhibition Centre of Crete is housed and its use for the benefit of local society". Mr. Kegeroglu, you have the floor for two minutes.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u254	Thank you, Mr President. Minister, we are discussing a matter that has a history. In 1984, on the basis of the Greek - USA agreement, the American base of Grunos had to end its operation. And indeed, in 1994 it was delivered to the Greek State. At that time, the General Secretariat of the Region of Crete with the co-responsible Ministries prepared a study on the development of the former American Base. Different areas were then granted to serve the public interest. Specifically, the facilities of ELKETH were created, the Crete Aquarium Cretaquarium - which is an ornament for Crete and the research centre for Greece and Europe -, the city hall, schools, artistic and musical facilities. Approximately fifty five acres were granted by the EBRD to the local society with two decisions that totalled 2025. To this extent, the International Exhibition Centre of Crete was established for use by the local community. In the fourth month of April, 12, the EBRD adviser, with a document that looked more like a ultimatum - and I will table it in the Minutes to avoid doubting it - asks back before the 2025 contractual concession date expires. [[At this point, the Member, Mr Vassilis Kegeroglou, presents for the minutes the above document, which is in the Secretariat Department of the Stenography and Practice Directorate of the Parliament.]] Minister, the local bodies, the district, the municipality, have all reacted because they are calling for the concession to continue beyond 2025 in order to make maximum use of this area. There is a unanimous decision of the representatives of the stakeholders. Allow me, in dentistry maybe I don't need all the time. Arnautakis Stavros, Region of Crete, Yiannis Kourakis, President of the PEN, Yiannis Sgkos Mayor of Hersonissos, Alifierakis Manolis, President of the Chamber - more important is the institutions and less the names -, Dimitrios Sarris, President of the International Exhibition Centre of Crete, Lekakis Charalambos, President of the Federation of Professionals - Craftsmen, and Kopasis, President of the Development Agency of Crete. These are the stakeholders, in order to make use of this space further. The association of parents and primary school guards and all schools. We want, after the temporary withdrawal from the CEO, the Ministry's political will in order to further grant the space, on the basis of the development plan to be drawn up by the institutions themselves. I would remind you, Minister, that three hundred and forty-five acres were allocated to the HSE. On the basis of Law 3896/2011, the GOI has prepared the ECHR, the special spatial development plan for the public area, and the tender is now in progress. He's in progress for four hundred and forty-five acres. The agreement, both inside and outside of the importing country, is in the TIADE to directly exploit from the public and local community to exploit local actions. In this sense, please the Ministry tell us his will for the request from the Region and the other institutions. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u255	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u256	Thank you, Mr President. Mr. Colleague, this property is located in the Municipality of Hersonissos, the Municipal Department of Gouves, and we must refer to history and to reality. It's part of the property where the former American Base was. In 1999, by decision of the Minister of National Defence, the six hundred acres of this property came under the management of the then State Building Company, while the rest remained under the responsibility of the Air Force. In 2013, by decision of the Interministerial Committee for Privatisation, the entire property was owned by the GOI, and in accordance with Article 67 of Law 4557/2018 part of this property was transferred to the ownership of the EBRD. Today, based on the last property count, the Air Force has the right to use part of an area of eighteen acres, and the EBRD owns the area of two hundred and fifty-three acres. We now come to the history of the concession of fifty-one acres made by the State Building Company at the Gournas Development Company "Eirini S.A.", in order to create an exhibition centre for a period of time until December 31, 2025. The concession was conditional on the allocation of 10% to the CED and therefore to the successor structure of ETAD, on the gross revenues of the concessionaire "Eirini S.A." or the management body of the international centre of Crete. To date, as is apparent from an audit and an EBRD document, the latter has not received 10% of gross revenue, as provided for in the concession agreement. At the same time, as shown by an EBRD document, there are holdings that do not comply with the purpose of the concession. For these purposes, according to a document of the CEO, which I submit to the minutes, it has withdrawn the concessions of that particular property. I shall refer again to my refreshment.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u257	Please, Mr Colleague, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u258	Thank you, Mr President. Three hundred and forty-five acres are in the U.S.H.I.E.L.D. HIADE is the principle of exploiting the competition that is under way and we hope to deliver and have the best result. To the extent of the EBRD you referred to have already set up the Crete Aquarium, ELKETHE, its facilities, which are a research institution of the Ministry of Development today and were previously before the Ministry of Education, as well as other activities, the city hall, sports facilities, schools, all of this. Where did the EBRD want a profit rate? From the International Exhibition Centre. I'm saying it because you mentioned it. The International Exhibition Centre, therefore, has contributed the greatest to local and regional development by highlighting the products and achievements of the technology and production of the people of Crete. If they have profits, of course, they are entitled to the agreement. However, there was no document prior to this ultimatum asking for the 50 acres to be used back, saying "you do not comply with the contractual term". There wasn't. That's a matter, because there's really probably been in some years, some use of some gains and not being attributed. I do not know this particular thing. In any case, we are actually talking about public service. It is not a question of regional selfgovernment, local government and the chamber, which is a legal person governed by public law, to act in conflict with the public. And the EBRD must understand that the local society agreed from '94 on the basis of this study that I showed you, and of course then on the concession to TEAD, because it already had a share to exploit part of the base. You rightly referred to the use made by the Ministry of Defence with facilities granted for officers and other facilities. It also happened in a postgraduate degree I made this year one of the eight projects was the utilization of the pig base. I've studied this very well. We do not disagree in the history, but we disagree on what needs to be done from now on. From now on, what I am asking for, and has been formulated by the institutions, which have the documents to present them to you and to give them to you - after all, they have been published and made public - is to draw up a plan for the further use of these 51 plus 4.4 sites, which is another small property, about 55 acres, to form a new decision on the further concession of the site, since the Ministry approves or amends the plan to be submitted to you by local bodies. The plan to be made by the Region and by the development company set up by everyone, to approve it by the Ministry, or to amend it, and to come by the EBRD to make a new decision and a new agreement. It is what really needs to be done to get the best result. We are not talking about a litigation in public with private individuals or between two individuals. We are talking about two bodies that must support the public interest in the best way, and I am sure, Minister, that you will move in this direction. After all, you know that bodies can also come to the Minister and Prime Minister, the government as a whole, and discuss them directly. So let us see whether we are in the same spirit of exploiting the space and moving in that direction, because I do not think it has the widest legitimacy. It can typically be formally from the statutes or from an agreement that the CEO will have it on the board, but the wider legalisation needed to speak for the public interest has it by the Ministry and local bodies. Thank you very much and I expect your dentistry.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u259	Minister, you have the floor.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u260	Mr President, the problem has obviously been raised for the following reasons: firstly, there was no control over compliance with concessions in previous years, as you mentioned in your dentistry. Secondly, even if the Development Company "ERINE S.A." which managed the 51 acre site wanted to amend the concession contract to include other uses or holdings along with the building complex housed by the International Exhibition Centre, this was not done. By law 4389/2016, with the creation of the Supreme Council, the conditions have changed and now operate on strictly privatised criteria. The Hellenic Company of Participants and Property, which is a subsidiary of ETAD, privatizes, grants and exploits all the properties that have come into its possession. In the U.S.A. is owned by ETAD and along with it and its approximately 71,500 large and smaller real estates. The EBRD has an independent function, is owned and owned by the Hellenic Company of Participants and Property, in accordance with Law 4389/2016. The EBRD in the context of finding the best way to use the property with the participation of the stakeholders has currently postponed the date of delivery - the receipt of the property. I believe that a common area of understanding can be found through dialogue and rational positions and proposals. Thank you.
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u261	Thank you. The debate on the topical and urgent debate is closed. Ladies and gentlemen, do you accept that we shall be able to resolve the meeting here?
ParlaMint-GR_2021-05-17-S1-commons.u262	With the consent of the House at 22: 00 the sitting for Wednesday 19 May 2021 at 09: 30, on the subject of this House's work: (a) a special plenary session on the Memorandum of Remembrance of the Greeks of the Sea, in accordance with the special agenda to be distributed and (b) legislative work, in accordance with the agenda to be distributed.
